tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Sebahattin Karakelle, a member of the Erzincan MP, who wanted to mention the 95th anniversary of Erzincan's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Karakelle.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-the-top promise in the verses of many poets to mark the 95th anniversary of the liberation of our mountain, middle, life and enemy invasion. I salute your high council. I hereby congratulate my fellow citizens of Erzincan, who have come to understand our day of salvation, and my fellow citizens from Tercan, who will celebrate their salvation on February 17th. I pray for the mercy of God, the long life of our veterans, the long life and patience of our fellow martyrs, who have given us this land, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has given it to us today with their blood and their lives. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Erzincan, suffered a great deal of pain in the years when the land was occupied by the parcels of the land, when the Russians first suffered the withdrawal of them, as well as the Armenians. In addition, many times, of course, as a painful fact of disasters, the earthquake broke down, lost thousands of children, over and over again, the loving orphan, the homeless man. Ninety-five years ago today, the mighty Erzincans, whose yeast was founded with suffering, whose dough was made with tears, drove the invading enemy out of this land, where they watered it with their blood. Let us not forget that the epic days of a nation are the cornerstones of the great history of that nation. Therefore, the days of salvation are days that tell us about us, when our glorious past and glorious history have moved into the future. Erzincan and February 13th are one of the golden pages of this glorious history. Because February 13th is the day when the mighty Erzincan planted our moon-star flag in the sky to wave its colour from the blood of our martyrs forever. Because February 13th is the day of our glorious ancestors, who wrote heroic epics in one heart, no matter what the cult, the beauty, the language. Because February 13th is the day when the mighty Erzincanli sacrificed his life to the foundations of the Republic of Turkey, which was born from the ashes, and finally, 13 February, Erzincani made a note of a sentence to Turkish history. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it is time to present the union that was shown yesterday in the defense of the homeland of heaven. In this thousand-year-old geography, where our common history, our common culture, has made us brothers, no one should be able to break our unity and unity, not enough. We have died for this land in all the land, in Çanakkale, in Sakarya, in Dumlupınar, in the Kurdish language, in the Turkish language, in the Turkish language, in the Turkish language, in the Turkish language, with the Alevi, in the Sunni. We have shed blood, died in the lap, in the colour of our moon-star flag. Therefore, it is time to wave around the country as the banner of love, peace and tolerance, which has been formed in this beautiful geography for centuries. Today, as it was yesterday, is the day as the children of this land, with the consciousness of living together, to bring our country to the top. In order for these high ideals to come to life, this sacred roof is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This meaningful task is for us who are acting in our nation because we, the strong and leading country of our children and grandchildren, are obliged and responsible for leaving Turkey as the most precious legacy. With the wish of our 75 million citizens, one country in sorrow and joy, the life of Erzincan, and the blessed martyrs who have given us all the land and all the land of our land, I salute you once again from God, where the seeds of brotherhood, which have been planted today, have always brought spring to all the land with colorful flowers.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Karakelle. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Illum. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise on the 95th anniversary of Erzincan's salvation. I salute you all. Dear MPs, Erzincan was rescued from enemy occupation on 13 February 1918 and Tercan district on 17 February 1918. First of all, I'm celebrating the anniversary of the liberation of all my countrymen. I honor those who are martyrs, and those who join in this struggle, and those who fight with sacrifice, I wish them a healthy day. Of course, our deputy, Erzincan, has spoken well of our salvation, and I thank him. In our Erzincan, there is a Halit Pasha Street. This street is one of Erzincan's tallest streets. Halit Pasha Street is a street named after Deli Halit Pasha. Deli Halit Pasha, the commander who was in the class at the time. One of the greatest contenders in Erzincan's salvation is Seyit Reza, who we do here when it comes his turn with Halit Pasha. Seyit Reza, along with Erzincan, had entered Erzincan from Handesi village of Erzincan, which was then frozen, and fought to escape the invasion of the enemy. Of course, when we get up here, we always look up to Erzincan's salvation, we always crown the people who fight here, but when we look at our Erzincan, there are 102,000 people missing from 2004. Let's assume 20,000 of them are dead, and our population is down by 80,000. We think this reduction, of course, should be investigated. Of course, we need to look at the work loss of the Erzincan people here, the fall in agriculture, the fall in farming. Erzincan, slowly, disappears on its own. In salvation, in the earthquake, so much suffering, so much sacrifice, that when they get here, they slowly leave Erzincan. Of course, various situations in companies have begun to upset the people of Erzincan. While the people of Erzincan are suffering, they feel sorry for the events that have occurred. Can you imagine, a factory can bring Erzincan to its knees? By threatening all companies, I was going to tell them what was going on in Erzincan, now in an earthquake zone, but I'll come back to them later. Now, while I'm on the subject of Erzincan today, I'm going to make another point. Dear MPs, a citizen of ours who was engaged last week, Yaşar Karamağ Lieutenant, is returning to his unit on Friday after the engagement, in Hani district of Diyarbakır. When he gets back here, he goes to the army house, goes into his room, and they say he committed suicide in his room. They say he committed suicide by putting two bullets in his head, right in his temple. Of course, look at the seriousness of the business here. Two days later, they'll know about this suicide. We are constantly saying that there should be a study about this because, before, we look at it, our friend Erdal Aksunger, our friend Vahab Elector, Ali Özgündüz, Nurettin Demir, Lütfü Turkkan and Nursel Aydöğan have asked our friends to open the Capitol investigation into suicides in the military, but we don't take it seriously and investigate it here. I've made a question proposal. In the question motion, I said, "Which provinces are registered to the suicide officers?" What are the names of the villages where they are registered? Are they psychologically ill? Have they been treated psychologically? What was their suicide pattern like? Is there anyone killed by making it look like suicide? Was he under any pressure at his location for any reason? Did you look into it? Is there anyone in your records, or in your hearing, eastern, or sectarian? Is there anyone from the southeastern or eastern? I also asked about alcohol and drugs, and the answer to me is that there is no classification of the ethnic identity and belief of the dying staff. There's no research on it. Only those who drink alcohol and are addicted to drugs are being investigated. Last time we looked at the press, 934 privates committed suicide in ten years, 818 soldiers were said to be martyrs. 323 soldiers have been killed in the last three years, 230 soldiers have been said to have committed suicide. I mean, we can't wait for something so important to be brought up and discussed -- of course, we understand -- to have a mind that says to the soldier, "well," but it's burning inside, so it's not gonna happen anymore. Here, when we look at it, as none of the question proposals or research proposals have been taken seriously, the answers are completely ridiculous. Now, the mentality in the military... I'll tell you for myself, I went to the army, did 28 days of short-term military service. We went through the door. The commander came to us -- was he a captain or a major -- he says: "You're from the east, you shoot the bird in the eye." I say: "I have never held a gun in my life. The man says: "No, you hit the horse." I mean, this mental structure in the army, all these thoughts need to be investigated. Now, as I said, here -- because I'm burning up -- today, young boy, twenty-nine years old -- you'll be covered up again without being investigated, but let me tell you, of course, we're going to ask for an autopsy from civilian authorities, and we've made attempts to do so. Now, we want the government to take this seriously and bring in the motion to investigate immediately. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Light. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Ruzzar Demirel, an Eskişehir MP who wants to talk about the problems of tradesmen and artists in Eskişehir. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the tradesmen's issues in my district of Eskişehir. I salute the High Council. The tradesman first asks: "The economy is getting better, the economy is getting better, we are very good in the economy." I wonder who this favor is for. We don't know anything like that. We can't go to the Oil Office and stand in front of the pump and say, "Don't worry about it." Fill it up. We forgot to call it. It says. The shoe store says: "Citizen, okay, low customs shoes are brought from Far East to wear cheap shoes, but they spoil the public's foot health and we can't make shoes and sell them anymore." We forgot all that, and then we got an e-access. What should we do? The shopkeeper asks. Yes, we've moved on to integration into the European Union, e-state, e-accession coming up. But they're asking one more thing: that if the European Union is adapted, e-accessions are applied... we can't even pay our social security premiums. Why, though, is it not applied to the European Union when it is in favor of the tradesman? (For example, why is the law of shopping malls waiting? If our country wants to fit in with the European Union, why don't shopping malls in our country, like shopping malls abroad, close on Saturday afternoon and open at noon on Monday? If one rule, one law, one regulation is to the advantage of the tradesman, why is there no need for harmony with the European Union? He asks. The shopkeeper says: "We prefer the practice of winter tires for our lives, for our goods, for the people who live in the country, but if the winter tire is taken off at the beginning of winter and the winter tire falls on the black market... then if I sell my truck, I get 15,000 lira, Mr. Regent, how should I live?" The salesman's shop says: "We want to be taxed in a simple way. How do we do the actual way of taxing as a market trader who earns $20 a day and $30 a day? The jewelers are in a worse position. They say: "What do we live on?" A quarter of gold, half of gold, full gold, it's a wedding, it's a fraternity, we'd sell it. Okay, so let the gold under the pillows go on the government record, and we want that, too, but would it make sense for banks to put goldmatics in their wedding halls? A private bank's ATMs sell a quarter of gold, half of gold, full gold in wedding halls, and the jewelry store is confused about what the recipe for jewelry is. So, what's the status of the truckers? I just told you about the winter tire, the K document is one thing, but truckers, for example, 1,500 truckers in Eskişehir have a license, they have a hostage, and this shop is a victim. Well, it's called "Esnaf shop," and there's a tradespeople's restaurant. You know, the Department of Agriculture has an app, and they're asked to preserve food poisonings for three days from the store to be followed, but the small restaurants we say are small, and the budgets are small, and they don't have cold storage to preserve them. On top of all that, the hairdresser's shop says that the hair dyes we sell, the chemicals we sell, are out of control, sometimes in the virtual environment, sometimes in the markets, and citizens get sick. Would you mention that? Of course, we speak of all these things, but to solve these problems that we've expressed, citizens want the tradesman's punishment to end for ten years. Turkey has nearly 2 million tradesmen today. If you think about core families, we're talking about a population of about 10 million, and they're expecting a new trade law from the government to solve their problems because, you know, there's a discrepancy between the trade rooms and the trade rooms because of the traderooms. In order for all of these problems to be resolved, the K documents, to return to taxing in real style, in a simple way, the jeweller would sell the gold, to make it clear that the bank would collect the gold under the pillow, a new law to end e-accessions, and while this law is being prepared, the shopkeepers want to be consulted in the shops and artists to be punished. We expect sensitivity from the government on this matter. As the National Movement Party Group, we already have a general motion to discuss business problems. I want all of this taken into account. I wish all the tradesmen a blessed day. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I will make a promise to our 10 friends according to the 60th article. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, in accordance with the provisions of the Enforcement and Bankruption Act, we have nearly 250,000 citizens who have been sentenced to prison for three months in prison for violating this commitment due to their economic problems during the course of their own or a relative's debt, but are on the run. At every opportunity, the government has brought forgiveness to thousands, including terrorists on the mountain, and recently released them from prison, saying that commitment victims must have a solution to this problem, and I urge the government to do its duty in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0009par0071	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0010par0073	We have stated that it would be a big problem if there was no extension of Propulsion Law 5084. In recent days, January data has been released by İSKUR. In the first month, the employer's demands were justified. In Malatya, the first month of 2013, there were 796 workers laid off. When the February figures were announced, we saw more clearly what extent of the economic crisis and the end of the Propulsion Act. I'll give you another number from Malatya, and I'll present another bitter painting: the record of the last decade in Malatya's number of university graduates has been broken. Malatya, where there were 26,136 unemployed registered to İSKUR, graduated from the university of the unemployed. That number is the highest in ten years. Out of every five unemployed people, one of them graduated from college. I visited the market in Malatya at the weekend. I had a chat with a young friend of ours, a math teacher, who sells lettuce and parsley.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0011par0077	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0012par0079	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday, his ties were damaged by frost, and Denizli Çi farmers were in the City Square of Çi. The agricultural chamber, the farmers' representatives always cry out for the change of Law 2090. We listened to their cries with Republican People's Party district, borough heads, executives. Of the 1,032 farmers who were injured, 93 have seen the warm hand of the state, but others remain victimised. Farmers are waiting for a solution to their victims, inviting the Ministry of Agriculture to serve. Tomorrow, I'll share that dried bond with you. In addition, TÜİK sets the price of support in one corn. First, he was setting up an agricultural room, industry and stock market. TİKİK is a black 1,150-1 of Denizli's real corn yield. He's forgotten that it's 200, even 1,400 pounds, which he's charging at 982 kilograms. The manufacturers are reacting to this, demanding that this be corrected. That's what he's saying, we're waiting for a solution to his problems.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0013par0084	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Union's Monitoring Centre for Racism and Foreign hatred established in Vienna in 1993 was restructured in 2007 as the European Union's Basic Rights Agency. In May 2010, the European Union's accession processes continued, while Macedonia signed a membership agreement with the Basic Rights Agency in December 2010, gaining observer status. Turkey has the right to become a member and monitor activities with candidate country status, with observer status. Unfortunately, since our government has not attempted to sign a membership agreement, the agency cannot conduct research in Turkey. I see Turkey's lack of any attempt to become a member of the European Union's Basic Rights Agency from 2007 to today. I think the reason for this is to prevent the agency from conducting extensive research into basic rights and freedoms in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0015par0090	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. TES-İS Anadolu High School and Poet Nabi, located in Şanlıurfa headquarters by the Ministry of National Education, has an empty staff of German teachers at Anadolu High Schools, while they have not been appointed staffed teachers for our schools, and they have been on the road to employ two German teachers who are paid for both schools. Why was it that we had tens of thousands of teachers waiting for the appointment of teachers who were not assigned to our schools, that only three German teachers were appointed throughout Turkey during the last appointment? Two: Why is the appointment of staffed quota information announced after the first test? Wouldn't it be better if the quotas were predetermined, and our teacher candidates knew about the quotas, so they could take part in the test marathon? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0017par0099	Congressmans, the Luxembourg Parliament MPs who are visiting our country, Mr Serge Wilmes and Mr Felix Braz and the delegation with him have now honored our House. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0018par0105	Mr. President, the closeness of the Justice and Development Party-BDP that began in parliament has also changed to the proximity of PKK-university management in universities. 12 national students at Ankara Faculty of Language and History-Geography last week were suspended by the university dean for calling PKK terrorism alone. Likewise, the leaders of the University of Marmara have been suspended from the university because of their struggle to survive PKK terrorism. Together with the PKK, we condemn this collaborative university administration. The anger of the universities, the hatred of them, will never go through them. The angels will surely take account of that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0017par0108	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0019par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to the Metropolitan Municipality Law, municipalities under 2,000 populations have been closed. However, at the time the law was passed and on 31/12/2012, 75 of the closed municipalities had a population of over 2,000. Twenty other municipalities in the town of Tokat have been like this and have closed down, although its population is more than 2,000. However, the fact that the law is based on 31/12/2012 has allowed these municipalities to close down. There's a bag of laws coming in the next few days. These municipalities, whose population is more than 2,000, must be corrected by a law and their municipalities must continue again. In this way, municipalities and the public have expectations. The situation is presented to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0020par0113	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0021par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it has been known that 25 people who have been fired for membership in the DHL warehouse in the Organised Industry District of Gebze Bellas have been building tents across the street from the workplace for two hundred and thirty days, and have received permission from the owner of the land, the tent they have been building in winter, cold and rain, mud and snow has been destroyed for the third time, by law enforcement orders. There's nothing more natural than looking for the rights of these workers. I'd like to draw the attention of the authorities and, in particular, the Ministry of Labor, of international contracts. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0022par0118	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, the United States Ambassador to Ankara criticised press freedom, trial and detention in Turkey. No country, regardless of its duty, has the right and cannot be involved in the internal affairs of Turkey. Foreign representatives serving in our country must be reminded of the limits of their duties and should not be allowed to cross the line. I condemn the U.S. Ambassador, I invite him to be modest, and I protest against them. Prime Minister Erdogan and his government's inconsistencies, conflicting speech and practices are causing these situations. It is Prime Minister Erdogan's BOP Co-Chair who recklessly confused the ambassador with Turkey's internal affairs. I hereby invite Prime Minister Erdogan to resign from the BOP Co-Chairship. Otherwise, the government of Erdogan, who has taken refuge in the Patriots of the United States against Syria, will not be able to take a serious stand against the United States. I urge the government to put aside cheap, cold, and common rhetoric, to put Turkey's domestic affairs in their place, to show respect.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0022par0122	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. President, the explosion in Hatay Cilvebörü has shown that war and violence in Syria continue in our territory. The fears of the people of Hatay, who have given birth to violence, who have shared their concerns with us, have been fulfilled. It's not new either. The explosion in Antwerp brought Syria to our mind. In Akçakale, five of our citizens died as a result of this wrong policy. The party blames each other for the explosion in our border area, controlled by the private army and the El Nusra Front. Whether it's organized by the pro-Assads or opponents, from Syria or Turkey, ultimately, the cause behind the violence that broke out in Hatay is Turkey's participation in the Syrian issue. In Syria, weapons must be silenced, steps must be taken to ensure democratic future, and Turkey's role and responsibility in these conflicts must be put to rest. I'm celebrating the release of the Vice-President of Cizre, the mother of Leukemia patient Solin. We demand the release of thousands of prisoners like him.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0022par0126	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the National Movement Party Group, we are sincerely celebrating Erzincan's 95th day of victory. We ask the Lord God for mercy on our martyrs on this day. We congratulate all Erzincans on having had such a day of victory, thank them, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0022par0130	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. A total of 13 people were killed yesterday, including three Turkish citizens, as a result of the explosion in Hatay Cilvebözü. It is feared that the death toll will increase. In some ways, we consider this as one of the consequences of the civil war in Syria, where Turkey was involved. We pray for God's mercy to those who die, for the wounded to be healed, for their relatives and their families to be patient, and for the peace of the region to be brought to an immediate end in the civil war in Syria. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0027par0135	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Bülli Yıldırım on the agenda of verbal questions 1, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 49, 50, 57, 58, 60, 61, 80, 92, 103, 114, 120, 127, 136, 153, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 177, 169, 167, 164, 164, 177, 184, 184, 184, 188, 196, 197, 197, 168, 278, 268, 268, 268, 2474, 2474, 2474, 774, 774, 768, 767, 768, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 778, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 778, 778, 778, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 778, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 774, 774, 774, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 77, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 74, 74, 74, 74, 775, 74, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 775, 7 I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The Prime Minister's office has 11 papers, so I'll have them read them and present them to you in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Gültan Kışanak has been sent in writing and supplements of interest (b) from the Ministry of Justice (c) as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Emine Muhaş has been referred to in writing (b) to the Ministry of Justice (c) and its attachments in writing as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency by writing of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly ==References==The interest (c) from the Ministry of Justice (c) has been submitted in writing and its additions to the request for the extradition of the document and the complaint sent to your office for a review of the investigation file sent to you on the list (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Kayseri MP Mehmet Şevki Kulkuloğlu has been referred to as a copy of the Ministry of Justice (c) of interest in the request for the extradition of the file sent to you on the list of articles (b). I'll give you what you need. The files from members of the Constitution and Justice Commission on the joint commission have been returned to the government. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The review of the time passed from the date Ataturk donated to the treasury to today, the search of the reasons for the decline in the Ataturk Forest Farm field, and for the resolution of today's situation and problems, the Constitution requires the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98th, 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey. 26/1/2012 [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] 4) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Kütahya]] [[Slap]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] 10) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Erzurum]] [[Tripoli]] [[Kayseri]] 18) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Inconceived]] [[Samsun]] The Ataturk Forest Farm was founded in 1925 by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to set an example for farmers, to plant around the new Ankara, to use modern agricultural techniques, and after it was run for a while, the personal property of the farm was given to the treasure in 1937 by Ataturk. Ataturk's estate was adopted on 24/03/1950 by the Ataturk Forest Farm Foundation Act 5659. However, this law could not prevent the capital's lung and its most important resting place, the AOC, from losing land. The AOC's stay in the centre of developing and growing Ankara has increased the value of these lands. According to a report by the Prime Minister's High Control Council for the AOC, the AOC land, initially known as 22,000 per cent of land, has been reduced to 33,524 per cent, according to current records. The main reason for the decline in AOC territory is that sales to public institutions and institutions over the years are long-term rentals and construction. As of today, there are 124 places in which the AOC Directorate rents to various individuals and organisations and the property is not allowed to exist, and most of these rentals are incompatible with the use of land in the donation letter. It is used by public institutions and private persons in a method of renting some 7,000 square metres (6,888,496 square meters). Because of fixed facilities built by tenants on the land, the land has not only been looted but has also lost its property. When surveyed of many of these rental facilities, there are restaurants, buffets, fuel facilities, bowling alleys, social facilities. The process of legal and illegal disintegration of AOC land was based on unplanned and wrong decisions for both the city and the AOC. During the dissolution of the land, the farmland has lost integrity and continuity and has now become an increasingly difficult place to operate. The site of the Ataturk Forest Farm has been declared a first-degree site by the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature Assets and by its decision on date 07/05/1998 and 5742. In order to investigate and determine the reasons for the decline in the AOC land, to address the situation and problems today, the Constitution requires the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of our 98th Constitutional Council of Turkey's Institution, according to Articles 104 and 105. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our citizens in Ankara Province of Modül, where we have given their reason, provide their livelihood with agriculture and animalism. There's hardly any industry here. Due to the lack of adequate public support over the years, the people of the district are facing major economic difficulties. In order to revive and resolve the problems of agriculture, animalism and industry in our district, we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research as necessary in order to address the measures and arrangements for the economic and social problems of the District of Ankara, which must be addressed. [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] 5) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Slap]] [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] 15) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 16) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kayseri]] [[Tripoli]] [[Tekirdağ]] Research and study revealed that Modulal had been established around it since prehistoric times. The district is the capital of Anatolian Selçuklu. Mesut's brother-in-law and Ankara Emiri, Şehabuldevle Güdül Bey, was founded in his current location eight hundred and fifty years ago and was a trustee in the District of Ayaş until 1 September 1957, and was district of the district of Ayaş until the same year. The county's facial measurement is 419 square kilometers. The height of the sea is 750 meters. It appears to be a terrestrial climate type. In the cold summer, it is warm and low in the winter. The economy of our town of Modül, which has a very ancient history, is weighted by agriculture and livestock, and the region's people make their living, especially by farming, fruiting, and livestock. Land conditions and climate properties have a significant impact on agricultural production and efficiency. Production in the region is largely dependent on nature's conditions. Therefore, our citizens in our region who are in agricultural activities are very badly affected by the negative nature and market conditions. There's hardly any industry in our town of Modül. Due to the lack of adequate public support during the AKP administrations, our citizens are facing great economic difficulties. There are no factories, industrial facilities, and workshops in our district where the public can work. Therefore, unemployment is on the rise, and because of unemployment, our town is permanently migrating. The characteristic of working and working life in the district center and villages is agriculture and animalism. Because of the lack of agricultural land in the district, the constraint of agricultural activities after 1960, the high cost of input and the negative market conditions, our farmers have reached the point of abandoning agriculture. The growing population has found its livelihood in trade by migrating to surrounding cities, especially Ankara. These events have greatly affected the economic development of the county. Our town of Modül has the wealth of nature that has not yet been discovered. The Inönu caves and Kirmir Canyon, where the Kirmir Tea is passing by, are almost enthralled by its magnificent appearance. In addition, the forest of the Inquisitor is among the places to be seen by the virgin beauty of nature. Assessing the potential of tourism for the forgotten and abandoned town of Modül, Ankara's capital, needs to be done immediately. Public investments must be made in the region at once. We need to provide incentives and loans for our citizens who are engaged in agriculture and animalism. In order for industrial facilities to be established in our district, the work must be done immediately. In order to resolve and determine the measures to be taken, a parliamentary survey of the economic and social problems of our province of Ankara must be opened in order to investigate the economic and social problems of the province. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The tradesmen in Diyarbakir are known to face close-downs every day. In order to investigate and clarify all aspects of the tradesman's situation, we ask for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Code of the Constitution. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] According to data from the Diyarbakır Chamber of Chambers Association of Employers (DESOB) and the Association of Compulsive Businessmen (MUSIAD), a total of 2,481 tradesmen were closed in Diyarbakır in 2011 on the grounds that they were unable to do business. Due to the violence, opportunities such as loans and incentives to the tradesman are difficult to exploit, as described as the region's risque region. Over the years, there have been many incentives for the development of the regional industry, but no improvement has been made. Despite the number of unemployed in the conflict environment and in the country, our tradesmen have opened their doors by mobilising large jobs in the region. However, the large shopping malls (AVM) established in the city centers do not stay open much. Turkey is a country seeking EU standards. In EU countries, however, a standard has been set for malls and has been held outside the city, with opening and closing hours set. When we look at Turkey, we see the opposite. As in Diyarbakır's example, large malls are opened in city centers. It's an unfair competition. In recent years, there has been a huge increase in closing businesses in Diyarbakir. This increase is increasing every year. In comparison with the number of jobs closed in 2011 and the number of jobs opened in the last four years, there seems to be a very serious difference. In 2011, the total number of trades closed in Diyarbakır and its districts was 2,481, and in 2010 it was 1,241. This means a 100 percent increase. In 2010, 2,211 new businesses were opened and 2.252 new jobs were opened in 2011. The last ten years of the tradesmen's evaluation, we're faced with a very frightening picture. The proportions sum up very well how difficult the Diyarbakır tradesman is. The region's tradeskeepers face many challenges when they want to take advantage of bank loans and incentives. In this context, positive support must be provided for the local tradesman. As a result of the incidents, banks face serious difficulties in giving loans to tradesmen in the region. Since banks view the region as a ίrisk region, the tradesman can't get a comfortable loan. In other areas, twice the amount of mortgage requested for loans is required in this area, which puts the tradesman in a difficult position. With the legal arrangement, the tradesman can now benefit from his support by registering in the COSGEB database. Although 6,000 people have applied for KOSGEB loans in Diyarbakir, only 2,400 people have benefited from the loan. The lack of employment in Diyarbakir has a lot to do with the unresolved Kurdish problem. Diyarbakir, which has been evacuated, burned, and destroyed, must be made to live by creating jobs, which grow more and more day after day. The development of the region is linked to the security environment that will be created. No matter how good the possibilities are, if there's no safety here, no one will invest, and the investments will melt. Thus, unemployment, one of the major problems of the region, continues to increase. In this context, Parliamental research should be launched in order to determine all aspects of the problems of the tradesman in Diyarbakir and to determine the financial and spiritual harm caused by the Constitution, as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, will make an official visit to Finland to respond to the invitation of Mr. Eero Heinaluama, the chairman of the Finnish Parliament, under the 6th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0028par0391	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit01spe0027par0392	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0027par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the notice to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, it's accepted. Now, I'm going to read the other presidential statement: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament shall be held on March 7, 2013 on behalf of Women's Day in Brussels on the grounds of Women's Equality, and under Article 9 of the 9th Article of the Law on Ordering the Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and Parliament of the Council of Europe, as well as of the participation of Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey (Bursa MP Tülin Erkal Kara). Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' 12/02/2013 meeting on Tuesday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The proposals for the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the violations of human rights in Turkey's prisons and the issues for the release and treatment of prisoners with severe diseases have been proposed to be held together in the Council of Ministers' 12/02/2013 Tuesday. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0029par0027	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the exiles in the prisons. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the prisons continue to be the bleeding wound of this country. Prisons are at the top of the most human rights violations. Prisons are a mirror to progress in the field of human rights and law in a country. Unfortunately, Turkey has had a bad report card for rights violations from the past to today. In particular, right violations in prisons have also been moved to international areas, and in recent years, there has been a significant increase. With the AKP's power, a significant increase has also occurred in the number of those left behind in prisons. Prisons are full now. Prisoners have to sleep in mess halls. Statistics show that the highest number in the history of the Republic has been reached. Even in the 1980 coup, the rate of hail has never been this high. He is currently living under the negative conditions of over 138 thousand prisoners and convicted prisons. As of 2002, there were 34,808 prisoners, and in 2012 the number rose to 104,313. The number of prisoners increased from 24,621 in 2002 to 31.707 today. Despite this negative picture, however, the government finds its solution to building new prisons. There are no palliative solutions. However, legal regulations must be made to prevent growing arrests without justification or convenience. Dear lawmakers, we have received several complaints from all prisons where political prisoners and convicts have been staying, especially recently. In addition, intensive applications to human rights institutions also show the extent of the problems in prisons. Prisoners and prisoners are being treated as unlawfully by the administration of prisons. In addition, many of their legal rights are often taken from them by the prison administration and security agencies. Prisoners and prisoners in prison are not given cultural, art and communication tools, such as newspapers, magazines, books, although they have no rights to collect and ban, as a result of arbitrary practices. Think about it. It's interesting that Arthur Rimbaud, the world-famous poet, was not given to Sincan Type F Prison for the safety of his poetry book. Again, book limitation is considered, and five books are allowed at the most. Again, these restrictions are limited to 10 books in Tekirdağ Type F Prison, where violations are intense. Five in one, ten in one, less in one. In addition, Kurdish talks with relatives are still banned from prisoners and prisoners in various ways. Dear lawmakers, conditions in prisons have practically eliminated the rights of prisoners and prisoners. The administration's arbitrary disciplinary fines lead to the prison of prisoners. The most natural rights of a person, such as constant cell punishments, communication fines, social activities, and not watching television, are returned under the name "Disciplin's punishment." Disciplinary sentences have eliminated all vital rights to those who remain in prison. In addition, families are also being punished in some way as a result of the constant absence of phone calls. Prisoners and prisoners are also restricted to a very serious extent to access to a physician. According to a report released by the IHD Diyarbakır branch on January 25th, there are 307 prisoners and prisoners in prisons. Health reports taken from 51 interested health boards are also noted in the reports that their condition is critical. The treatments of those present at the point of death are not performed in the appropriate hospitals, but the dose of disease increases while being transported to hospitals by ring vehicles. International standards predict that medical care services provided in prisons must be equal to opportunities outside the prison. Sadly, there is little medical care in prisons in Turkey; even some patients are left to die consciously; in fact, there is discrimination between political prisoners and other prisoners. The demands for stopping the executions are not being transferred to the Forensic Medical Association, even though months have passed. Clearly, they are expected to die in prisons. Five prisoners and prisoners, including Hayati Kaytan, are in quarantine at Denizli Type D Prison. They're cancer patients. Unfortunately, the constitutionally guaranteed right to healthy living is not granted in the dimension of human life. However, the rights of prisoners and prisoners to receive medical care must be guaranteed by the state and all obstacles faced in practice must be eliminated. The requests for transfers of prisoners and prisoners to prisons in the city where their families are located are either left unanswered or rejected without justification. It would have to be another punishment for families. Dear lawmakers, prison conditions are getting harder and harder. September 12th Fascism is being tried to live in prisons, with the same conditions as September 12th. According to human rights organisations, 2,000 prisoners and prisoners were exiled in 2012. Most of the exiles are political prisoners. In the last two months alone, nearly 200 prisoners and prisoners have been transferred to prisons in the west and Black Sea. In particular, the exiles between December 2012 and January 2013 appear to have been targeted by activists who participated in hunger strikes. So, it's almost as if those who participate in the hunger strike are being punished and avenged. Tens of prisoners who remain in Erzurum Type H Prison are sent to remote prisons, such as Kırıkkale and Sincan. How and with what money will families come to Ankara, who are forced to go to Erzurum, even from Pain, because of lack of economic conditions? It's a policy of persecution. In addition, still under trial, the prisoners were transferred to prisons far away from the provinces where their courts were. They're being brought in and dragged out of the ring vehicles for tens of hours for each trial. It should also be considered how people who go to court during this transport will plead. In addition, during many transports, the prisoner and prisoner are subjected to abuse and torture. It is also thought to suggest that the prisoner and the prisoner should suddenly be exiled in the middle of the night, without being even allowed to dress, without being hit, without even being allowed to take their belongings. Exiles have turned into punishment, torture. Prisoners and prisoners are isolated from their families, prisoners and prisoners with vital health problems are not being cared for, they are being sent to very remote prisons, and in the ring, they are being subjected to torture. Dear lawmakers, it is not possible only to talk about inhumane practices and problems in prisons in an hour or ten minutes. As a BDP, we've said this many times, we've put it on various occasions, not a single step has been taken or taken. However, the government must act immediately on the evacuation of at least critically ill prisoners and prisoners. Again, the events of exile must be stopped at once, preventing further victims of prisoners and prisoners. On the other hand, there are 109 prisoners and prisoners in prisons at the age of 80 and more. It is incompatible with human rights that people of over 80 years of age are still imprisoned in prisons. Also stated in the IHD branch report on January 25th, 307 patients are under arrest and convicted. 51 of them face serious health problems. Precautions must be taken immediately. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0030par0044	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Recep is a member of the Isparta Special. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0031par0048	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. The Peace and Democracy Party demands that a research commission be set up on measures that must be taken by investigating human rights violations in Turkey's prisons and the issues of evacuation and treatment of prisoners with severe diseases. When we read the motion for research... the speaker had just complained about the fullness of prisons in his speech. Yeah, the AK PARTY was full of prisons. You have to look at the reasons for that. There's now a two-thirds reason for the execution system as it lies at a rate of one-third of the time in the penal system. Another reason is that since there are more files coming out of our Supreme Court for the first time, since the number of cases that have been reached has increased, the number of those left in prisons is increasing because they have already been concluded. This one needs to look at whether the number of prisoners is high or the number of prisoners?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0032par0052	There are too many prisoners, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0031par0053	In this period, if you look at the numbers in proportions, you'll see that the number of prisoners has increased, the number of prisoners has decreased proportionally. The Peace and Democracy Party's motion was issued on October 20, 2011, about a year and a half ago. Since then, the Parliamentary General Assembly passed the third package of justice; just last month, the penal and execution institutions, the penal system, and the Law on Criminal Justice passed through this Parliament.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0032par0055	Nothing's changed in the prisons.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0031par0056	Not the prisoner and the prisoner you just mentioned, but his wife, his children, his parents are sick, and if they are in need of care, the terms of their release or execution have passed through the House itself. By changing the reward system in prison -- with an old regulation -- who will benefit from this reward system, from the phone call -- in the simplest sense -- we've been able to make it a matter of law without leaving it to the authors' initiative, without leaving it to the regulations, and by installing this reward system into the existing law. In other words, there's been talk of family integrity, human rights. Look, this is the first time we've ever had a family meeting in a court of law here. The opportunity for prisoners, prisoners, to meet their families in private every four months has been removed from prison every three months with the parents and guardians of the children without close supervision by the prison guard; providing family integrity. Due to some illness, if they are unable to survive alone in prison conditions, their sentences have been suspended and the execution suspended. A number of recent evacuations indicate that. All these issues in this motion, I think, have been brought up here without reading, not being updated, by missing the last year's application. We also made arrangements here. By removing the upper limit of the judicial control system, we've removed the obstacle to everyone's trial without arrest.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0033par0062	Do you believe that? Do you believe that, for God's sake?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0031par0063	By applying the judicial control system, we carried out the third judicial package here that arrest was an exceptional event, that the main thing should be an open trial. In other words, we have been familiar with the possibility of expanding the opportunity for supervised freedom, allowing those who have been granted an open execution institution or have been granted a last year in criminal execution institutions to be released by the end of 2015 without a six-month requirement. In addition, when a prisoner or convicted in prisons, I can't benefit from health benefits, human rights and violations are being done to me. In the most serious sense, the Commission for Human Rights as our government, as our Ministry, as Parliament, went to those prisons and did the necessary research. If you'd read the facts of your research proposal, you'd see that they've been under law in the House over the last year. So it's more important that the government, the government, the execution, solve it by worrying about it, make legal arrangements than the motion to investigate something. In this regard, as a party, all regulations as a government... all prisoners and prisoners in prisons are under the protection of the state, the honor of the state, and there is no way for us to condone any human rights violations here. Anyone who violates human rights will be dealt with with with with with with decisively. I believe that the motion for research is not necessary with the arrangements that have already been made. It says I'll vote against him, and I give you all my regards, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0034par0069	Thank you, Mr. Special. In favor of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Free Special, please.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group in favor of the BDP group proposal. I salute you all. It's really amazing that a congressman here can express that there is no need for this motion, and that this Assembly denies the proposal to establish a research commission, one of the most important of legislature tasks, because we've been through a lot of the Department of Justice bureaucracy, and there are many ways to go. Trust in the mechanism of justice, the last survey showed 5%; it's a wound that bleeds prisons, but there's no need to talk about it for five minutes. It's really amazing to say that. I'm part of the group of Republican People's Party -- Mr. Veli Ağbaba, along with Nurettin Demir We visited over 80 prisons and had over a thousand interviews while preparing that report. It was half of those numbers when he filed that report, but we went on, they're the numbers that we're getting now. The Republican People's Party, principlely, has been visiting all prisoners and prisoners in all prisons, regardless of the type of crime, regardless of the origin of the crime, without looking at the right, without saying the left, without saying the KCK, without saying the IBDA-Cli, without saying the Hezbollah prisoner, without separating the sect because we have one priority, that is human rights. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The only punishment for those in prison in terms of human rights is the limitation of travel and freedom of placement. However, the practice in Turkey's prisons is a heavy isolation and a number of arbitrary practices that bring out many difficulties. Adeta, prisons, places of disease. One, there are sick prisoners, and then there are disease-producing locations. Patients are being released from a hard-hitting prison. In 1946, the World Health Organization has described health as a state of complete happiness, not only in sickness or injury, but in body and spiritual happiness, and it is a very important state shame that our prisons are producing disease, and I'm going to talk about some of the diseases that they don't have before they go to prison. Eye disease, for example. The eyes of three of each four prisoners are troubled by the constant sight of the same color, the lack of sight of the horizon, and the constant glimpse of the short distance. This is not the only disease that prisons produce. In prisons, modern medicine, regardless of your illness, predicts 20 types of dietary diets, while there is one type of dietary meal. For example, there is such a primitive practice as giving a diabetic a boiled potato as a diet meal. When I ask as a pharmacist about the medicines of a liver patient, when I ask him, how long have you been taking this medicine? The patient, who's been at risk of liver cancer for more than six months, has been able to write it down and bring it here for six years. Mr. Special, this is the prison truth. Handcuffed examination, despite common protocol, despite the common protocol of the three ministries... so if the doctor requires a handcuffed examination, he will be examined without handcuffs unless he writes it down in writing. Despite the protocol of August 2010, there are handcuffed examinations in prisons. We saw the heart attack patient waiting on a stretcher for two hours, waiting for an ambulance, and we saw with our eyes in the prisons. We're the ones who brought the type-R prison to Turkey's agenda. Type R prison, rehab; a year and a half ago, the Department of Justice and Health jointly built an R-type prison in Metris. We went, we saw, there was a vision in the back of the bed that our lawmakers couldn't stand to look at. Now that we've given them such warning about their evacuation, it's as if they've solved the problem themselves. Go to the sick wards, come in, the hospitals under our noses are in no condition to enter. The Undersecretary of Justice, the Director General of the Prisons, get in the ring car once and see if he can get to a hospital, and then we'll talk. But next thing we know, Ergin Saygun. The commander was sentenced to 18 years in prison, and when we went to visit him, he was heavily ill -- he had an infection in his heart, he needed to be evacuated; no one heard his voice, so far it's been waited, and now someone's gone, crying crocodile tears over his head. Where was the explorer Kozinoglu, suspected in prison, died of a heart attack after sports? Kuddusi Okrır died three or five days after he was released from the prison of Kuddusi Okkır, the safe of Ergenekon. You see, there's been a skin and bone evacuation. The funeral of Kuddusi Okkır. The funeral of Ergenekon....of Ergenekon's vault has been removed by the municipality. Let's not just talk about celebrities; Tekirdağ is in prison - go find - Cemil Erdem. Cemil Erdem has larynx cancer, but they don't know, they put him down as a nodul operation on his vocal cords, and the next thing they know, he's got cancer, and they wake him up and they get his signature. That's the advanced democracy of the AKP. Then they put him back to sleep and operate. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Are you saying there's no operation with handcuffs? Cevdet Bayır in Kandira Prison, there he is. Handcuffed to gurney, hernia surgery. And more wrong-doings that they suffered. Mehmet Haberal is Turkey's biggest, first step in transplanting. He had a heart attack three times a day, and you kept him in there to death. Now, we have Hilmioglu the Conqueror. Hilmioğlu the Conqueror, in his liver transplant...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0036par0092	Hopefully, you'll get in there, and we'll come visit. We're going to visit there.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0093	...you insist that Hilmioğlu the Conqueror, who founded one of the most important centers in the world, is kept inside. Take your time, take your time, get her into the ICU, then go hold her hand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's such a thing as Vicdan, there's such a thing as the Vicdan, there's such a thing as the public conscience. In recent days, Mr. Prime Minister's conscience has also emerged; he has not been there until now, perhaps we have not seen him.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0037par0096	You look like you've seen it!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0097	I don't know if the Prime Minister listens to his conscience, but there's one thing he listens to, the result of public opinion research is public conscience. The persecution of these prisoners, the length of their long imprisonment, the percentages of these patients turned when they saw what they were going through. He's thinking about a possible referendum, the presidency, the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0038par0098	He's in the presidency.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0099	He's getting an analysis, and they're costing you votes. Four sympathetic ministers were quickly appointed, holding the hands of Ergin Saygun, and posing the hands of the conscientious statesman tactics... we have nothing to say to anyone's manlyness... but a father said to his son: "O son, you will not be a man. You will not be a man." After being a vizier, he called to the office, he said: "See, father, look, I've become a minister." My son, I said to you, "You can't be a man, I didn't say, you can't be a man." I said, "You can't be a man of the Prime Minister, but you have a conscience."
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0039par0100	You criticize the Prime Minister and look at your own leader.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0101	You can be President General; you can be Prime Minister; someone can call you leader of the world, but you haven't been a conscientious statesman to embrace the whole of Turkey, and you can't be anymore.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0040par0103	Yeah, people know that, you don't know that.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0039par0104	You don't know that, Free.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0105	Look, don't say anything, don't say anything. One of them says to you, "The king is naked." One says, "Your king is naked. Despite the most expensive suits on him, your king is consciously naked friends."
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0039par0107	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0041par0108	It's not your place, people say it in the trunk, people.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0109	Yesterday I was the prosecutor of the Ergenekon case. He said, "No, I am his prosecutor." Percentages have dropped, public investigations are down, and the AKP and the Prime Minister are in a panic...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0041par0110	55 percent, 55 percent...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0111	...now that he's gone, he's replacing the D.A. he's protecting, he's attacking the D.A. Your king, your king, if he could only make your fingers a congressman. Because he only needs your index fingers. (CHP clapping in rows) Why? I'll tell you. Veli Ağbaba, I, Nurettin Demir, went -- in the month of the month of the marriage, the Prime Minister said, you applauded standing up in the hall, the balcony. We support it in its essence, it's even incomplete -- an activity in F-type prisons at the end of October, they're tearing it apart. Brother, we are the man who personally saw the room where the conjugal meeting was held, the electric water heater, the bed-to-bed two-bedroom, the bunk that was funded by the two-bedroom interview. History is the beginning of November. When did we pass the law? The night of January 24th at dawn. Now you're going to get mad at me when I tell you I'm the only one who'd make you a congressman?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0042par0114	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0115	You don't question yourself when you lift your finger on January 24th to vote on the conjugal interview rooms that were prepared four months ago.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0042par0116	It's a shame!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0035par0117	...one retired teacher's child, a poor Free Private, who comes out and tells you all this trouble here, goes to your pain? Guys, before you go to bed tonight, think about this finger thing one more time. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0043par0121	Thank you, Mr. Special. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0044par0123	Mr. President, the congressman speaking on behalf of the EC PARTY Group has stated that we came here without reading the third court package. And he said it wasn't a misunderstanding, it was an execution. I'd like to make a brief statement for this.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0043par0124	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0044par0127	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I've given you some figures now; the speaker said it was an execution. How much is the difference: one is 34 thousand, one is 104 thousand, in terms of the prisoners; 34,808 in 2002; and 104,313 in 2012. It's just the same with the prisoners and the prisoners. Now, he says it was the execution. That's right, there was a more human execution law there at the time. Now you're the one who aggravated that execution law again. There's no need for you to complain about it, so you're in a much more backward position than the administrations of that period ten years ago, and you need to understand that. On the other hand, during September 12th, I was in prison for ten years, non-stop, and then four or five years in prison. I've been out for a year and a half, two years, so I got out of prison two months before I became a congressman. When I made such a comparison, I could never forget that in Erzurum Prison Major Remzi İpekçioğlu was beating us in the square, torturing us, and putting his hand behind his back, saying: "You are under the protection and protection of the Turkish Armed Forces." He says: "The prisoners and prisoners in the prison are under the protection and protection of the state.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0045par0130	That's right.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0044par0131	Now, look, under the protection and protection of the state, you should be ashamed if your most private space is wanted. Also, you should be ashamed if you're being naked under the protection and supervision of the state and if you're a woman.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0046par0132	No one will say, "Let the work be done, let it not be done."
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0044par0133	And I'll tell you something else: Remzi İpekçioglu brings the generalizations of the prisons in 1948, and he says: "There is then and now there is, and I will do it." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now you're doing the same app. Put your hands on your conscience and correct the situation in these prisons and prisons. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0047par0138	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Yusuf Başer, Congressman Yozgat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0145	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the BDP's parliamentary investigation into human rights violations in Turkey's prisons and the evacuation and treatment of prisoners with severe diseases. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there are around 128 thousand prisoners and prisoners in 368 penal institutions across the country, including 95,000 prisoners, 32,000 prisoners. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the friends who just spoke, they're doing it today as they did in the past. We've always heard people speak on the assembly stand, but in three elections since 2002, in two local elections, in two public ballots, our beloved nation, 75 million citizens, has shown how conscientious Recep Tayyip Erdogan is, how many people are his servants...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0049par0148	You're great, you're great!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0149	...and in return, the AK PARTY continues to increase its vote as soon as power is established.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0049par0150	Way to go!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0050par0151	Finger, finger!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0152	This shows that the actions of the EC PARTY were carried out in accordance with law, morality, and the needs of the age.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0049par0153	You've got the helaline, it's too small for you!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0050par0154	He's gonna pick the finger, the finger!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0155	So, I think the evil word belongs to the bad word, and I don't want to say any more.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0049par0156	No need, you said it all!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0157	Our literature isn't enough to answer them.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0049par0158	Way to go, you're the best!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0159	THE EC PARTI governments have targeted the execution institutions in accordance with modern understanding, in which the Ministry of Justice has conducted a healthy, secure, mechanical, electronicly equipped and execution institution, which I have considered to be in different parts of our country, especially major cities. In accordance with Article 18 of the Law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures 5275, medical units have been opened and activated in prisons for prisoners with mental illness other than mental illness. The rules for the execution of security measures are the race, the religion, the language, the sect, the nationality of the prisoners...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0162	You're doing all this in prison.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0163	...generity, birth, philosophical belief, thought or social origin...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0164	It's all done in prison. You're all doing religion, politics, sexism.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0165	...without discrimination from anyone, regardless of political or other opinions or economic powers or other social positions.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0166	That's not true. I'm not lying. It's not true.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0167	It may not be true to you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0168	There's also a division of sects, a distinction of political opinion.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0052par0169	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0048par0170	However, our actions, our beloved nation, are rewarded in every election.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0171	Mustafa Balbay, who received the same vote as you, is not given water; Mustafa Balbay, who received more votes than you, is not given water.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0052par0172	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0173	Mehmet Haberal, who received more votes than you, is being put into isolation.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0052par0174	Mr. Agha, please.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0175	The lack of freedom that is required by the freedom of freedom that has been made possible by prisoners in criminal execution institutions to lead a regular life.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0176	Engin Alan wasn't given a pair of tracksuits, he got more votes than you did.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0177	...has been withdrawn under material and spiritual conditions that protect respect for human dignity.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0178	Ask him, how many sneakers does Engin Alan have? Shoot.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0179	The execution of the sentence is carried out according to the basis of justice. For that purpose, the execution of punishment...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0051par0180	Selma River couldn't go to her father's grave, to his father's grave. He got as many votes as you did, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0054par0181	Did you go to Silivri? You're talking, but you're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0182	...responsible by the powers vested in by law, regulations and regulations. Dear President, members of the law, what the judiciary has done...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0055par0184	Selma River, Selma River...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0056par0185	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0186	...referencing the benefits to our former speaker, the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0055par0187	He couldn't go to his father's grave.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0056par0188	Mr. Agha, you've said enough, all right, enough, but enough.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0189	Dear friends, the judiciary is independent in Turkey. The judiciary may not have been independent in the past period, but Turkey is no longer Turkey since yesterday's 2010 referendum, especially with the EC PARTI rule.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0055par0190	That's what the Prime Minister says, Prime Minister. He's defending them, too.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0191	Now, Turkey is on its way in accordance with human rights, the rule of law, the understanding of justice.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0057par0193	You're great, sir, big!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0194	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, the execution of the sentence is carried out according to the basis of justice. For this purpose, criminal execution agencies, when you look at the bad examples of past times as of now... here, I'd like to read just one paragraph from the examination of the Human Rights Commission in Aliaka Prison in the last month.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0058par0195	12-year-olds were raped in your time! Is that a lie, too? The Minister of Justice closed the prison. Twelve-year-olds were raped during your time, right?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0196	The Aliya Department of Corrections -- institutions that have been investigated -- has been found positive in physical conditions and other opportunities for inmates, especially in the women's execution institution, as well as in the proper activities of the prisoners, in human honor, in accordance with the philosophy of the children's lives.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0058par0197	Has the Portal Prison been closed or not, Congressman? Were children raped or not?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0198	...and under this report, under the report of the Human Rights Commission are the signatures of lawmakers from the EC PARTI, CHP, CHP, and BDP.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0059par0199	You don't speak the truth! We had opposition, you're not speaking the truth! Why are you fooling the coven? You're lying!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0058par0200	Everyone should be ashamed! Twelve-year-olds were raped in prison.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0201	Mr. President, good lawmakers, with the changes we've made in the Law on Execution of Criminal and Security Measures 5275 in the past month, it has been decided that the execution will be postponed in the absence of life in conditions of a severe illness or injury. In the same way, the suspension of execution, delaying, resuscitation of the republic's attorney general's office has also ruled that the prisoner will not pose a threat to public safety. In the same way, provisions in favor of the defendants -- again -- regarding the suspension of the sentence and direct capture -- have been brought.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0060par0204	Way to go, teacher! Way to go!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0061par0205	Salih Mirzabeyoglu says this power put me in a cell for ten years. Salih Mirzabeyoglu sings.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0053par0206	In the same way, it has been decided that the prisoner must stay overnight in the current arrangement, in the case of the death of his parents, spouse, brother or child, or in an important state of severe illness that will be life-threatening for his relatives, or in a safe place with the same conditions as earthquakes, floods, floods, and necessary permits, and that this stay should be held at night, provided there is no criminal execution institution where he goes. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with the EC PARTI government, the amendments to criminal execution legislation have been harmonised by international standards, the standards the European Court of Human Rights has sought in prisons have been captured. The controlled freedom organization has been established. Prison problems have been removed from the country's agenda, along with the AK PARTI administration, allowing prisoners and prisoners to live so that the state can be treated humanly. I hereby declare myself against the BDP Group's proposal, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0062par0212	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0063par0213	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal to your votes. All in favor...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0064par0216	We don't want a decision, we want a roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit02spe0063par0217	I'm so sorry. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Agha, Mr. Oran, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Candy, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Ayman Guler, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Güven, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Söydan, Mr. Akar. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal voted was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to you the motion of the Party of Peace and Democracy group: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 12/02/2013 Tuesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. It has been suggested that "the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of the martyrs and veterans" on the 10/142 part of the General Assembly Agenda's General Assembly's General Interview and Parliament's Review of Parliamentary Studies, and the 10/235 main "accessors and veterans' problems" should be met today (today) by reading in the General Assembly on 12.02,2013 (today). In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0065par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin, I'd like to express a few things about the explosion that occurred yesterday at Reyhanlı district of Hatay, Reyhanlı, Cilvebözü Border Gate. First, I pray to all those who have lost their lives, to the Lord God, and to those who have been hurt, to the people who have been hurt, to the people who have been hurt, and to the people who have been hurt, to the people who have been hurt. Four of the dead are Turkish citizens of the Republic of Turkey. We do not yet know exactly how many of the wounded are citizens of the Republic of Turkey; there has not been a full, clear, official explanation, but this also shows that our Turkey has become open to sabotage in every way, in every sense. I pray and pray that other disasters like this, other sufferings, our country and our nation will never have to live again. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as we've always stated, it is up to the ruling group to determine the agenda of the General Assembly, and we have no objection. However, power, of course, brings up the agenda of its own program, votes, and the public has an agenda. Most of the issues brought to the General Assembly this week are legislation of international contracts. It may interest the country, it may concern the state, but the issues that don't concern the nation's problems, most of them. So, as opposition parties, we see the public's agenda as an opportunity, a necessity, an opportunity to talk about the fundamental issues of the nation's agenda here, at least with the participation of all political parties during the time of these television broadcasts. So today, as the National Movement Party, we propose to the Council of Counsellors that the problems of martyrs, veterans, veterans, and malnourisheds be brought to the agenda of two of our earlier research proposals so that each party can express its opinion on this subject, attract the public's attention. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you're interested, you're not interested, but we're going on record, we're going down in history. I speak to your consciences, and I know that in the future, people will certainly be asking for it, too, to show a little bit of your compassion for terrorists, for terrorist organizations, for the sake of God, for our martyrs, for our veterans, for the sake of God, for the sake of God, for our veterans, for the sake of God. Minister, look, we're talking at the end of the decade. Did we not do anything? You may be thinking, but we are talking at the end of the decade. Today at your group meeting, Mr. Prime Minister says we'll give some rights to the relatives and relatives of the veterans. But we propose, we say: "Come, let us set up a commission on this matter in our Parliament." The martyrs, our veterans, our men of war and duty have many problems. Look, there's a brochure about this that their association sent to all of you in January 2013 and sent to the groups. They've got 17 problems here. The political power is responsible for solving them. It would not suit Turkey, not the state of the Republic of Turkey; it would not suit this political power that rules this country on behalf of the nation. Let's set up a commission like this, give our fellow martyrs, our veterans, our duty and war malaise people the rights they deserve, make some legal arrangements, save these people from constant whining. It's a human obligation for you to show your closeness to terrorists, your human proximity to terrorists, and your terror, to end it. It's a human obligation for you to show this closeness to our fallen relatives, a part of the talks that you've started. God will not be pleased if you ignore those who shed tears while they wipe away their tears. Dear MPs, in this sense, as the National Movement Party Group, based on this brochure recently, we have prepared four law proposals to resolve the problems that this association, which was founded in 1915 with the martyrs, widows and orphans, has brought to us, and we have given to our presidency, and all the party groups have been informed. There's more to be given. For this, let's set up a commission here to investigate the problems of our fallen relatives, our veterans, as a debt to our veterans, who have lost their hands and feet for the sake of their defence. He's setting up commissions on everything, Congress. For our relatives, for our veterans, for the people who put their lives on the line for self-defense, do you think such a duty, such a necessity, is of no importance to you? Of course, that's my promise to the ruling party group, members of parliament. You raise your finger at everything, but if you refuse this proposal on the part of your group vice president, we'll report you to our martyrs, our fallen relatives, our veterans, and we'll complain to Allah, and I want you to know that. Dear friends, as the National Movement Party, we offer you the following four law proposals on the rights of our fallen relatives, on the pensions of our fallen relatives, on the use of non-interest loans from the Community House, on the increase of the loan, rent allowance from ten to fifteen years, on the parliamentary register of parliament or on the official page of Parliament. Come, our fallen relatives, at least... Look, I'm telling you something, and I think it's only fair that these negotiations be discussed in the absence of a minister, but I'm putting that to your attention, Mr. Secretary, here. Your daughter-in-law, not just a bunch, at least our fallen relatives... look, we've done something here, together, we've given the martyrs their second employment. We did it right, it was necessary, but we did one thing missing there: the waiver. I mean, we need to make an arrangement that will allow the death relatives of the martyrs who can't follow the rules we've set up for the second contract of employment, but you don't bring up the law proposal, you don't bring up our research motion. Therefore, today -- I repeat -- remember that you owe the martyrs, those who crippled these people, those who crippled these people, your compassion for them, your affection for them, your affection for them, your affection for them. You have no right to give such a speech to your fellow martyrs while negotiating. God will not approve, nor will the people be pleased. We, the National Movement Party, say to you, "Come, let's set up a commission on this, discuss all the problems of our fallen relatives and veterans in one unit, make some decisions, take them to the government, and make the necessary legal arrangements together. The credit is yours. Now, to the conscience of your fingers. I look forward to your contribution to the establishment of this commission, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0066par0040	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Fatosh Gürkan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0067par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the nationalist Action Party Group's 10/142) main group proposal. I salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation who follow us. First, I wish God's mercy to our citizens who died in the explosion at Reyhanlı district of Hatay, Cilvebözü Border Gate of Reyhanlı, and to the wounded. A moment ago, of course, I didn't find it very right to compare Mr. Mehmet Shandir, deputy director of the MHP Group, to a member of the terrorist organization with their families and veterans in the same context, and I'm sorry to say that I'm sorry. I'm a martyr's grandson, my mother's two grandfathers, the martyr of Çanakkale, and I'm sure many of our friends here have grandparents who are martyrs like mine. So it's something we're all sensitive about. I'm a member of parliament who is particularly interested in these matters, even before I became a member of parliament. Yes, of course, in the past year, our fellow lawmakers, with the support of other groups, and the problems of the fallen families and veterans, have also been offered by our Prime Minister. I had three legal proposals. One of them had something to do with the establishment of an office. It was established. Again, especially from our fallen relatives, there was a demand for second employment, which was fulfilled, law enforcement, and one of the most important problems was disability. Perhaps many of our friends know that if the relatives of the martyr were to receive income from anywhere, the relevant institution had income. The disability clause has been lifted. In this particular sense, many of our fellow martyrs have expressed their gratitude over and over again, and we still see each other. Surely, in a court of law that has accumulated problems for years, there's no way it can be solved, there's no way it can be solved at once, but if only the previous authorities had shown the sincerity of the AK PARTY's power, as well as the previous governments had shown it. There's no way we can ease the pain of any of our fellow martyrs, no matter what we give them. There's no way we can repay the loss of a single finger of any of our gases, no matter what we give. We know these things, we're all aware of them, but our goal is to make a good living standard by improving the standards of life for our fallen relatives and veterans, their children, as best we can. Of course, a lot of arrangements have been made, and I don't want to waste your time counting them one by one. In particular, the requirement for exemption in property grants has been made, especially for our children and their brothers, spouses and children, to their parents, as well as for transportation, especially for our martyrs, as well as for the martyrs of terror. In addition, an arrangement has been made, especially when our veterans' maintenance fees -- particularly if they are bedridden -- have been doubled. Today, our Prime Minister has also given us good news in his group speech, including our fallen relatives and veterans. One of them is that arrangements will be made for the free use of relatives of terrorist martyrs and the means of transportation that our veterans use, as well as for the relatives and veterans of the mission. Both city buses and public railway buses can be used for free, regardless of time enforcement by our fellow martyrs and veterans. Today, our Prime Minister gave this news. I also know a debt of gratitude to our Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin, who has so far supported legal regulations concerning martyrs and veterans, and to our fellow bureaucrats and other party groups who have supported the fulfillment of these laws. Of course, there are some problems mentioned earlier, I said, that no problem can be solved completely. Because, now, the standard of our people's lives has risen in AK PARTY power. Our veterans, who had never been able to find a wheelchair before, have now been able to transport it in the electric cars. All their expenses are almost covered by the government. We always say that we do very good things, but we have flaws, and from now on, we will continue to make arrangements for our fallen relatives and veterans. Of course, it's a process, and there have been significant changes, regulations, and a lot of problems. From now on, new regulations are being made, and problems are being met. We, the EC PARTY government, are all members of the government, the Cabinet is sensitive in this matter, along with all our representatives. Everyone supports these arrangements sincerely, and the work continues. I hereby declare myself against the MHP group's proposal and respectfully salute your delegation, with no need to open a new parliamentary investigation for him, and pay respects to our president. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0068par0056	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0069par0057	Mr. President, Your Honor, the speaker may misread my speech and cause a misunderstanding. So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0068par0058	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0069par0061	Dear friends, don't make a mistake with what we're saying, we never compare. We don't make a mistake with a martyr, a veteran, a terrorist, a comparison to the same thing. I'm sorry you understand such a thing. What I'm saying is, look, there's a report that the Association of the Martyrs and Orphans of Turkey, founded in 1915, sent to you. They say they have 17 problems in this report. In fact, the following articles in these laws harm us, by placing the laws one by one. This text came for you, too. So we say that you may have done something -- that you still lack -- that today the Prime Minister has made some statements -- but we also say that it's not enough -- and remember that you talked about it ten years later; you're not the power of yesterday, you don't have any excuses anymore. So what's your priority? Family of martyrs, veterans... as long as this terror continues, the problems of martyrs and veterans must be your priority, don't you think? As the National Movement Party, we say that between all issues, let's discuss these problems together -- in front of all of them -- according to us -- let's discuss them together as Congress; let's set up a commission for this, let's discuss these problems. We appreciate what you've done, but what you can't do is that you know this organization -- if that's the kind of request that he made, then respect it. Let's set up this commission -- it's not just our issue, it's yours first -- and let this commission discuss all the problems of our fallen relatives, veterans, war and duty people together, and recommend their measures to the government. That's what we're saying, it's unfortunate that you've drawn this into another understanding. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0070par0067	In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Istanbul MP Hope Oran. Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0071par0070	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. Yeah, our agenda is really important. We, the Republican People's Party, support this proposal at the point of the establishment of a research commission. The martyrs and martyrs, our martyrs and veterans, are something that we really care about as the Republican People's Party when we look at it, and we can't pay the rights of these people, the people who really gave their lives for this country, the people who gave their body's parts for it, for this land, we can't pay the rights of these people's families. So, first of all, we need to take this over politics. So this is a topic of the Justice and Development Party, the issue of the Republican People's Party, the subject of the National Movement Party, which should not be considered as the subject of BDP, which is the subject of all of us. Because these people have sacrificed their lives and bodies for us, for all of us. Look, as the Republican People's Party, we proposed a 17-point law on March 16, 2012. There were 17 substances in this. This is our proposal for the law, so could it be more important than that? Here we are, fighting terrorism, giving martyrs every day... This bill of ours has waited three months. Three months later, we arrived in June 2012, brought our proposal to the Supreme Assembly, and unfortunately, with the votes of lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party, our proposal was rejected. Two weeks later, I'm talking about June 19th, the date we brought to Congress -- Mr. Prime Minister gave me an order in the middle of the night, in the middle of the night, in the bag of law, we made some decisions for our martyrs and veterans. And we supported it, and we said, "There are negatives." Mr. Secretary said, "We'll remove the negatives, you'll support it." We sat down, we supported it, we believed in it, we trusted it, but when we looked back at where we came from... Look, this law came into effect on July 12, 2012, Act 6353. When you look at it, it has just been expressed with this Law, and I want to say this once again -- even though we gave the public a second job, four and a half months later, regulations were issued by the government in December, but the right to waivement was not included in these regulations. I mean, if the martyr's children are too old to work, if they're retired from the public family -- his uncle, his aunt -- they suffer a great deal of damage. We can't come up with solutions to them, but the regulations that were written on them didn't provide a solution. Again, I called Mr. Minister of Interior and the Minister of the Family at the time, and I wrote a letter, and I said, "Look, this right to waivement is a problem, the people, the families here are getting victimized, so bring a solution." But, again, this solution has not been resolved today. Look, on the way here, I, frankly, didn't know this was going to be on the agenda today, and I didn't prepare a speech like this, but when I saw the agenda, I came to you today to talk. Today, basically every day, we get hundreds of letters from fallen families, veterans, phone calls, and they express their victims. Look, just today, just today, Tuana Steel from Hakari has faxed me a fax, and on this fax, she says: "Please, help me, but read this letter I wrote in the House. Look what Tuana Çelik says: I am a resident of Hakkari's headquarters. My father was killed in a shootout at Hakkari headquarters in 1997. We're three brothers. We gave my sister the first job, and on the second job, we applied for my brother. Unfortunately, however, our application was rejected because it was off-limits to the Home Office. So he can't take advantage of that right. Now, you see, he has six uncles, four of them civil servants, two of them village rangers, they're well off; they want to give up money; but the laws, the laws that we bring in, don't give the second child the right to work. Now, we need to make a sound to this, to our brother, who wrote this letter from Haqkari, to the scream of Tuana Steel. So in our consciences, there has to be a response, we have to respond. Look, every law, every law shouldn't be a law brought by the Justice and Development Party and passed by its votes. Just a moment ago, our fellow congressman, who spoke before me, told us that the AKP's power was sincere. Okay, so if the AKP is being sincere, then why doesn't the power take into account 51 per cent, the will of the nation, the opinions, suggestions, criticism of the other three parties. Why are we avoiding this? So, does every decision have to be based on what 49 percent of every law says? What kind of democracy is that? Maybe we'll contribute, maybe we'll have incentives, maybe we'll have more constructive measures. Our goal is to do better together, isn't it? But unfortunately, we can't do that. In a moment, it will be voted, and I believe that the AKP, our fellow MPs, all of them, will be rejected by me. Look, there's another thing: it came from our martyrs, we have opium martyrs, we've forgotten. What happened to our opium martyrs? Look, we created something new, and we told them, "These are natural disaster martyrs. Well, this is about our Afyon martyrs, my friends, us... these people are waiting, the families are waiting, they don't know what's going to happen. How are we going to make up for these sacrifices? What are we doing about this? Is it wrong if we set up a research commission on these things, this research commission handles it, or is it bad? Look, again, I'll say it again: there is no party for martyrs, no party for veterans. As politicians, we have to address the problems of those who died for us, of those who sacrificed for us, of their families. Somehow, we have to be able to take this over politics. Somehow, we have to be able to act together, united, united, in solidarity. This has got to be about politics. I've mentioned it here before, but unfortunately it hasn't been taken seriously or taken seriously. Look, terrorism is our biggest problem, and when you look at it, it's going to have to be considered over politics, and over parties. Besides, isn't the result of terrorism, the result of terrorism, in some sense, our martyrs, our families, our martyrs, our veterans? They live their lives as victims because of this terror, don't they, or lose their lives? So we have to stick together on this one. The fire burns where it falls, but to put out that fire, to heal those wounds is our duty, yours, ours, our responsibility, and ours. Look, once again, I'm calling from here, once again, to your consciences, to the ministers who represent the government and to the members of the Justice and Development Party in particular, who represent power: Come, don't be shy, let's set up the research commission, let's all work together on this, let's solve problems together, don't hesitate. So there's no other way we can make people's will happen, there's no other way. See, we backed it up, in July this law came out, there's a lot missing, there's a lot of victims. At the time, if instead of bringing it in like this, like a breakout from a fire in the middle of the night, if a commission had been set up, research had been done, if every party could express their opinion, their proposals, maybe we wouldn't be discussing it today. Here, at this point, I once again call on power to duty and responsibility. Look, in certain matters, we need to work on common sense. Look, if it's national security, if it's a risk of war, if it's a threat of terror, we need to stick together for peace, we need to come together for peace, but we need to come sincerely, and we need to do it together, together, both the power and the opposition, which, sincerely, has the will to rule the country. Once again and for the last time, I would like to address my fellow Justice and Development Party members: Come, let us set up this research commission, and feel free to do so. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we believe in democracy, if we believe in participation, if we believe in a lot of voices, and if we believe in 51 percent of the will of the nation, if we say it's a national will, let's form this research commission together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0072par0090	Thank you, Mr. Oran. Smyrna MP Ali Ashık is against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0073par0094	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the MHP group proposal. Ever since the AK PARTY was founded, we've been in touch with both our fallen families and their associations. We have dealt with and dealt with their problems very closely. We deliver their problems to our Ministry of Defense, our Minister of State, who is responsible for the family, to our Prime Minister, and we share their problems with them in every way. We've made many improvements so far, and we'll continue to do so. For him, we do these matters rather than talk about them, we make them more of a problem than a discussion, and we will continue to worry because those who left us this country left without expecting the reward, perhaps they were martyrs, but it is the duty of the people who love this country to prepare their orphans, their children for human life, for all of us. For him, we will do our duty properly. I'd like to interrupt and express that I'll vote against you, since the contracts and laws will continue in the future. The martyrs are the martyrs of all of us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0074par0099	Thank you, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0075par0100	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit03spe0074par0101	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the council's 12/02/2013 meeting on Tuesday (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Turkey's Grand National Assembly agenda has been proposed for the meeting of Parliamentary Research Council No. 10/350 on Tuesday 12/02/2013 (today) of the General Assembly's 12/02/2013 (today) meeting of the Council of Parliament (today), which is part of the section for General Discussion and Assembly Review (to investigate the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of the white meat sector). In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Namik Havutça MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0076par0017	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion to investigate the situation in the white meat industry on behalf of our group. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, Balıkesir is the province that feeds Turkey. Indeed, Turkey's 1st city of milk production in Turkey is the heart of this sector as a city that has recently met 20 per cent of Turkey's production and 25 per cent of the production in the white meat and in Turkey's production in Turkey, especially in our chicken industry -- especially Bandirma -- which covers 20 per cent of the production of white meat in Turkey. Look, last year, in November 2011, we submitted a motion to Parliament. In this motion, chicken farming is one of the most powerful sectors of agriculture in Turkey, and we have proposed that chicken consumption in our country is about half as expensive in the industry -- a major problem -- in the industry -- is that inputs are very expensive, especially because of imports of food costs, is based on imports, the number of people close to 2 million, the amount of raw materials in the sector is $3 billion -- while production conditions are almost the same as developed countries -- and we have proposed that there is an increase in the economy -- in the industry -- that there is a major problem -- in the markets -- that there is a cost of imports, and that the entire amount of corn is being imported, and that there is an increase in the economy. Dear lawmakers, there are important representatives of three very important sectors in Bandirma, which address Turkey; like Banvit, we have important brands, such as Sugar Chicken, which represent us internationally, and they employ 5,500 people directly in the region. In the same way, with the side industry -- the number of people he addresses in Turkey -- creates about 500,000 jobs. Look, in the last week, one of our first 500 firms has announced the bankruptcy of white meat. For bankruptcy reasons, just as we have expressed in the basis of our research proposal, he has stated that he will no longer be able to lift this burden anymore because of the import-based corn, soybeans, energy prices, the price of energy, the price of energy, the price of energy, the price of the price of the energy, the cost of which he cannot reflect it. In this sector, this firm is directly affecting the lives of about 20,000 of our people, and since we've been told by the Association of Feeders about it, this company alone will receive $24 trillion or $24 million of VAT from the current state. Now, in the same way, it's not just their problem, it's among the main problems of the industry. Look, if this goes on and it doesn't take precautions, then the future of bankruptcy in other firms is also inevitable. We don't mean to waste time, to waste time in the presence of this House. A year ago, if the suggestion that we had brought to you in 2011 was accepted about the talk of the problems of this sector, maybe we wouldn't be talking about them today, and maybe if these measures were taken, those bankruptcys wouldn't have happened today. In order to save this institution, which directly affects the life of 16,000 people here today, which is very important to the Bandir economy, we, especially from our Finance Minister and Agriculture Minister, are coming to the region to ask for a meeting with our businessmen, to sit side by side with representatives of the sector in the Balıkesir Chamber of Commerce, in the Bandir Chamber of Commerce, side by side. The rescue of our representatives, who are currently in financial distress in our sector, does not mean that our firms are the only ones saved. We have workers there who can't get their wages, and we have peasants out there who babysit them in villages, around 2,000, who produce fasons. My dear friends, aren't these our problems? When we say that, sir, we don't have any arguments like this, that they're going to get VAT, that they're going to get it, that they're going to get it, that it's going to be like this. Each of these are the main issues of Turkey's economy and the production of white meat, and they need to be dealt with immediately in the Balıkesir region. Look, on the land of Turkey, we import corn and soybeans, which are sworn raw materials. We read in the news that Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petting Ministry has rented 5 million acres of land from Sudan. This is a joke, isn't it, fellas? Let me give you another number: In Turkey, the total area of our land -- which is 26.5 million hectares in 2002 -- has been reduced to 23.6 million hectares in the plantable area in 2011, the number of farmers in our Farmer Recording System has fallen by 200,000. I mean, we can't farm our own land, we can't harvest our own, our peasants are leaving their land, leaving farming. Oh, our Minister of Agriculture has rented 5 million acres of land from Sudan. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, why don't you come to Balıkesir, to the Plain of the Heart, come to the Plain of Cotton, because the garlic maker couldn't remove the garlic from the field because he couldn't afford the labor costs. Today, in the Plains of the Heart, farmers can't plant a pot. Animals sell their animals, slaughters their pregnant cows. So, which country are you the Minister of Agriculture? In your country -- I've just said -- soybeans, the main ingredient of white meat, are empty to plant corn, you import them from outside, import them from Brazil, from the U.S., and now you rent land from Sudan. Isn't that a contradiction, my dear friends? I would like to address our listeners: Look, you can't produce the most expensive medicine and fertilizer in the world using the world's most expensive diesel on your own land, you have the backing of Europe in agricultural support. The amount of VAT, paid by our farmer in mazotta alone, is $9 billion, and the amount of support he receives is $7 billion. The Minister of Agriculture is coming out of here, and he says, "Sir, we've given the farmer 7 billion dollars. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, 9 billion liras that our farmer only pays to the state in mazotta. What support are you talking about? According to the Agricultural Law, you do not pay 1 per cent of the illegal national property you must pay our farmer. Then you will rise up, and rent five million acres of land from Sudan, and produce agriculture. My dear friends, dear MPs, we have the most hardworking farmer in the world who will do the best of agriculture in Europe, we have the villagers, we have the honorable people. If our villager has reached the point of selling his land today, if there are major problems, bankruptcy in our sector today, it is clear from Wednesday that the coming of Thursday -- the troubles in the white meat today will cover the entire sector and will gradually hit our farmer, our great livestockman in the Plains of Enchanting. They're showing off. We demand that Mr. Finance Minister and government officials come to Balıkesir to assess the problems of the sector in order to be accepted and avoid further disasters in the sector. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0077par0033	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun is the member of the Bolu MP against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0078par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group against the group's proposal from the Republican People's Party. I hereby salute the General Assembly with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, as you know, Turkey has made a very serious progress in agricultural production, in agricultural areas since 2002. According to OECD reports in 2002, our country is currently in the 11th place in the world and has a total of 23 billion dollars and is now in the 7th place and is receiving 62 billion dollars, so there is an increase of about three times as much. Its agricultural field is the same, but the number of employees has also increased by about 30 percent, but it has increased by about three times. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Agency also reports this as a success story. Compared to 2002, loan rates of 69 per cent have dropped to 5 per cent, but on the contrary, the rate of payment has increased to 98.8 per cent while in 62 per cent. The white meat industry, which has a share of around $5 billion in agricultural production and is the size of about 1.5 million people with their families, is getting a significant share. According to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Agency in 2011, our country ranked 11th in the production of chicken meat and 13th in the production of chicken eggs. When we compare the same thing with Europe, we are number two in the production of chicken meat and number five in the production of eggs. According to Gene 2011 data, we have 10,634 businesses and a total of 17,040 henhouses in our country. Almost 100 per cent of it is a white meat industry, which is recorded and spread from the manufacturer's model to the most remote villages, to the extent of its production. In the white meat industry, which I have the honor and pride of becoming a member of parliament, I would say is about one third in Turkey at a rate similar to Balıkesir. Now, after giving this information, I would actually like to point out a few points about the CHP group proposal, because, as the Congressman mentioned, we actually talked about the same thing here a few months ago with a group proposal. And frankly, I'd like to congratulate you on a little bit of that, because according to the previous group proposal, there's been a certain improvement in the numbers, so the numbers that were about 10 times wrong with the previous group's proposal have now reached about the same level, up to three or five. Although it's worth $3 billion, it's actually over $5 billion in business. On the other hand, when we look at the group proposal, the amount of consumption, called 17.5 kilograms per person, has actually reached 21 kilograms. Of course, we know these numbers by heart as members of a province that speaks to one third of the white meat industry in Turkey. On the other hand, when we compare 2002 to 2012, we also have the numbers. Because here, especially after the government came to work, the white meat industry began to count and even went backwards. There's a phrase in this group proposal. But if we look at it this way, the consumption, which was 10 kilograms in 2002, is now up to 21.16 kilograms. Production reached 1,87,000 tonnes in 2012. In the same way, exports in 2002 -- including feet -- amounted to 19,642 tonnes in 2012 to 326,249 tonnes. So there's about 15 to 16 stories of growth when we're talking about it. Now we're looking at the point where a sector that he's considered to be moving back, or even going back, has arrived. Let's look at export: in 2002, when we export $12 million, we export $567 million today. So we can argue how it went backwards, really impossible to understand. Corn production: 4.6 million tonnes of corn are produced in our country. Considering that this was around 2 million tons in 2002, there is an increase of about 2.5 times. So, how much imports are there? 800,000 tons. 800,000 tons, not 1 million tons. So, what's this export for? It's part of the internal procedure, in exchange for exports. You're quite right at the soy point; right, the conditions of competition in soybeans cannot be reached. But all of this information suggests that if we consider that there were almost no companies involved in the white meat industry of any of the first 500 industrial companies in 2002, how many companies are currently in the first 500 rankings? I'm proud to say, there are two companies in the first 500 rankings of our Bolu, even the first 100, integrated facilities. So, dear friends, the winged sector, is a sector that we're proud of in terms of agricultural production in Turkey, where all the steps are recorded from the egg to the table, and it's caused by the production model, a revenue distribution that spreads from the fason production model to the bottom. It's really important that this sector further develops, which means exporting, removes the problems ahead of it, but for these phases, it's really important that we, the Bolu MPs, in the first place, maybe the Balıkesir MPs, and our other friends, do this work together, but we do it. So we, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, from the other side to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, have held meetings over and over again since June 2011, which will overcome the problems ahead of the sector. So right now, there's not one henhouse that can't get a permit after the circumstances, but if he can't get another parcel of rape or, you know, any other route, it's impossible to get a license, but there's now a henhouse as a fugitive. The incident is over. None of the government's institutions have described these henhouses as fugitives in the past with their own incentives. So after the application, right now, all the henhouses are getting to the point where they can get these licenses. On the other hand, what are our pros in chicken exports? For example, we're close to an important part of potential export markets, so we're very close to the targeted Middle Eastern countries, like Saudi Arabia and so on. Equivalent legislation for EU legislation is another advantage for products produced in the same quality as products produced by EU countries' standards. This proves that exports have already increased nearly 16 times since 2002. We can put this and many other points like this out there, but the height of the price of raw materials and especially the external addiction in soy is a fact, and we can't deny that. Our job is to open the way for exports, especially in the markets we have the advantage of, and to encourage some of the growth in internal consumption. In this way, we can make a serious contribution to the production of Turkey, especially by encouraging the white meat industry, the winged sector, not only in Bolu and Balıkesir, but in other provinces of our country. We can talk about problems with VAT, but at this point, as far as we know, our government has serious work to do. So, dear friends, respected General Assembly, I've now told you the results of serious work on the white meat sector, the winged sector, with the Ministry of Agriculture and all the relevant ministries. Hopefully, as the ruling party MP in these studies, we'd like to be with the opposition party MPs. But once again, we are against the Council's motion to investigate the next agenda, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0079par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0080par0057	Sir?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0079par0058	Mr. President, a white meat producer just got a call from our citizen on the phone speaking out of respect for him, asking me to ask him a question here, and they said, "What white meat producer doesn't have a problem, ask the congressman." Ask the MP of the AKP who has no debt to the bank; who is in comfort and abundance. A producer called it. For the record, and for the sake of respect for the manufacturer...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0080par0059	Okay, you asked, it's on the record. Thank you. Mr. Havutça, please.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0081par0062	Sir, he has stated that my information is wrong, and I want to correct it.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0080par0063	I promise by 60, not by teasing. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0081par0067	Now, my dear friends, that's where I got this information from the White Meat Industry and Horsemen's Association website; it's updated information, information. Look, the industry's 2010 turnover is $3.7 billion. With 9,000 farms and movers and sub-industrial industry, 500,000 people work in the sector, and in 2010, export revenues are 206 million US dollars, and in 2011, 271 million U.S. dollars. Brazil makes 42 per cent of the world's exports of chicken meat, 35 per cent of the U.S.A., and the most important ingredient of the chicken oath, corn and soybeans, are being planted by these two countries, and the most important exporter of these grains is these countries. In addition, our current markets, the Iraqi market... only the Iraqi market for Turkey. Other than that, we only sell chicken feet to China, we can't sell to Iran, our 50 per cent sales to Turkish republics have dropped to 10 per cent, Saudi Arabia doesn't buy from us, the European Union doesn't buy from us. Now, the industry has such important problems, we say, let's talk about them. My congressman says white meat is fine. I'm asking this nation, this people, I'm asking the manufacturers of Balıkesir, my fellow lawmakers, to talk about them, to discuss the most important issues of this country, our primary job as politicians, especially your primary duty as power. What's your Minister of Finance, your Minister of Agriculture doing here? If he won't talk about it, whose minister is he, the minister of Sudan?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0082par0071	He's got 16 floors up, so what's he gonna do?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0081par0072	That's what he'll talk about, he'll go, he'll talk to the industrialists in Balıkesir, my dear Congressman. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0083par0078	In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0084par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the recommendation of the Republican People's Party. I salute your high council. It is sad that he has not been heard by the Minister about such an important matter for Turkey and has not been prepared. The white meat industry is really -- as the ruling MP put it -- a sector that concerns 1.5 million people. Of course, the speaker said that 30 per cent of them were shrinking in the sector, and 30 per cent of them were still doing the same. Where did this 30 percent go, are they on vacation, where are they, where have they found new jobs, put them in the industry, where'd they go, 30 percent? Please consider that 30%. Where are they? We went through a period of growing unemployment, when people were reduced to despair, when the industry was shrinking. Yes, Balıkesir, Bolu, Izmir are very important centers in this sector. These centers have to be in other cities and it has to grow, but this growth has to be planned. Now, Balıkesir has 870 businesses, 1.756 clusters; this covers 25 per cent of Turkey's production, Bolu more, Izmir is close to it. It's nice to see the growth of this rapidly growing sector, the growth of production, but the government, the administration, has to plan it. The places we're selling now, the countries that are buying from us, one or two of them would be a problem inside if they got interrupted. Balıkesir (Bokesir) has important companies that are branded worldwide. It's a half a century-old company, half a century old brand, the first company to export to the European Union. Although this firm is a well-functioning, very hygienic, quality-making, non-deprived organization, today it has fallen into difficulty. To hold the hand of this, the institution that the Istanbul Industrial Chamber, which entered into this first 500, must be raised up in absolute form. It has to be opened up, along with this company, which will receive $24m of VAT from the state like this one, it is said that it will receive nearly 600 million VAT in the sector. At this point, I draw the attention of the Department of Agriculture, the government. Dear lawmakers, chicken, white meat industry has lost its taste, so the chicken has lost its taste. Why? There's a lot of trouble with his diet, his vows. Yes, we import corn as stated, import soybeans. There's a lot of chemical in there. We import different products of GMO, and we can't control them in those countries. So, we're making a production of these products that we feed them with animals that we've grown in twenty-five or thirty days, and we're growing up to five and a half pounds. I say: The government must be made in this country, without GMO, with the taste of Turkish white meat, the taste of palate, and in order to be made inextricable in this sense, the taste of the Turkish palate must be restored. Our firms have been abandoned to stand on their own two feet in this brutal competition, as a result of the world's price competition. I'm asking you, all red meats are never supported by white meat when the government is supporting it. The white meat producer is not supported. Thus, the producer, who has lost the competition requirements in exports, is forced to face the support given to manufacturers in Europe and the United States. And someone's on the horn, waiting for me to pick up a factory, a company, even if it shakes. That's my science. We've seen people in the Turkish economy produce a pasteurize of the egg and come up with a brand like this, turning the crisis into opportunity, saying, "Chicken, bird flu" -- we've only known the pasteurized milk before. And now it's up to the government to protect the rights, the laws of the people who work there, who pursue them, who follow them, who lower the price and who wait for them to buy them. In this sense, I think the government should make an effort to investigate and resolve the issues of the sector by re-establishing a commission, as proposed, and by setting up a research commission in its place, especially in the region. The chicken and the egg industry, of course, are in the same category. These integrated facilities established in the country -- chickendom, incubation, slaughterhouse -- must be taken into account for hygiene while they are being established, not to infect incubators, not to have production casualties. Yes, it's funny to me that people in the Aegean Region, especially because of the height of costs -- electricity costs, fuel costs -- are no longer able to plant a lot of products, especially when they are not able to import it from outside, especially when the government -- is trying to rent land from Sudan, to farm there. I think there will be efforts and efforts to bring this country's farmer back to his field, to bring him back to production, to reveal the values of this country. The Ministry of Agriculture must demonstrate the importance and contribution needed by law enforcement, Justice and Development Party MPs, for the development of animalism in white meat and red meat, for the producer's victims to be compensated. Publicity is very important. Each firm is attempting to promote its own, and with regard to promoting Turkish brands abroad, the industry must be opened up in representation at fairs, with support. We can also put our proposals, our proposals, on the support of olive oil, our promotions, into this sector. The fairs of these countries, the food fairs, the Turkish brands, the carrying of Turkish flavor in absolute order, need to be introduced and create new market spaces. The manufacturers in Balıkesir are taking the coal from Soma lignite facilities to warm the henhouses. Soma facilities give 20 tons to a manufacturer who needs 100 tons of coal, and they have to get 80 tons elsewhere. Even though they've done exactly what they needed before, now Soma businesses give coal to cement factories, not the coal the white meat industry needs. I draw the attention of the ministries on this issue, waiting for the producers' efforts to address their victims, offering the acceptance of the Republican People's Party proposal, paying tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0085par0093	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. The Republican People's Party Group's motion against Mr. Hussein Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0086par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. In detail, Mr. Ali Ercoshkun, our Bolu MP before me, made a broad statement about this matter. Of course, the industry has a variety of problems, like any industry. The world is going through a very turbulent period after the 2008 global crisis, and it continues to go on. Even in China, countries of the European Union, the United States, the Far East countries and the world's star for the last ten or fifteen years, record-breaking record-breaking record-breakers. In our country, we also have periodically difficulties in various sectors, our government and the Ministry of Economics are taking various measures to overcome these problems, supporting exports, implementing various incentives for investment -- regional incentives are some of them -- there are supports in this wing sector, as well. As far as Turkey's resources go, Turkey's budget allows, although it is not enough for the European Union and other countries, so is the winged animal industry, but I'd like to give you some information. The winged sector has become an important sector with high export capacity, which has been the fastest-growing growth in our country in recent years, which can produce more than the standards of the European Union. We're all aware that our Ministry of Agriculture incorporated poultry into agricultural insurance in 2005 for the development of the winged sector. In addition, a low-interest loan has been offered to the wing sector, and in 2012 it is used for a 50% interest reduction investment and a 25 per cent interest reduction business loan. Three egg parents and hybrid lines have been developed and registered under Turkey's conditions, as a result of the reforms conducted by Ankara Chickening Research Station in our Ministry of Agriculture. Between 2002-2011, chicken production increased by 132% and egg production by 12 percent. Our country is self-sufficient in the production of winged meat and eggs and exports more. In parallel with this development in production, our annual annual consumption of chicken per person has increased to 10 kilograms in 2002, while today it has increased to 20 kilograms, and in the target projection about ten years later, over 30 kilograms are targeted. Of course, the industry needs to be supported, the sector needs to be opened, exports are especially in our immediate environment, in the Middle East, in Africa, and we all know that chicken meat is consumed at a very high rate. In this sense, a number of countries in our nearby geography, especially internal political turmoil and some regime changes, have a negative impact on the economy. But to get past them, our country's Ministry of Economics, especially our businessmen, is trying their best to increase exports and to go to the diversity of the country, and our government supports them. I salute you with respect and love, saying that our agenda is very busy and that we are against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0087par0108	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/02/2013 meeting on Tuesday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President This part of the agenda's legislation, which includes "The Law Bills and Other Affairs From Commissions" and "The Commissions," is ranked 216, 212, 58, 140, 205, 231, 229, 57, 63, 170, 380, 327, 388 and 388, in order of the other tasks in order of 4, 5, 27, 28, 29, 29, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, and 37. Until Tuesday, February 12, 2013, when the talks were completed until Bill 345 in the Union, Until Wednesday (February 13th, 2013) the meeting of the talks of the 229th Bill of Law was completed, On Thursday (February 14, 2013), until the meeting of the talks of the work of the 177th Amendment, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. It has been suggested that daily programs continue to work until the completion of the daily programs at 00 if they cannot be completed. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0088par0127	Mr. President, I have made a promise that our very valuable MPs have made in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I hereby salute your high council. During the agenda's legislation and proposals, there is an offer on international contracts, such as putting 12 international contracts in the front row, and on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, 24 of these talks. It is recommended that the work continue until the end if it cannot be completed until 00. Dear lawmakers, these contracts, especially in terms of youth and sports and international transportation, are now a bit of a priority for our state's international policy, so our group has to bring this proposal. I look forward to your support for our group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0089par0131	Thank you. Mr. Mehmet Candy is a member of the Gaziantep MP against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party group. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0090par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, unfortunately because we didn't get along with the Council of Counsellors, they bring their own suggestions every week, and these are the ones that we want in the process. That's what he does when he trusts his majority. He's putting the compromise aside. Of course, we specifically want them to be more carefully cared for in order for this culture of reconciliation to develop better under the roof of this House. Turkey needs reconciliation, solidarity more than ever. My dear friends, I'd like to inform you that the explosion at the Cilve-Eye Border Gate the other day... has killed 13 of our citizens, and some of our citizens are unfortunately injured and seriously injured. I pray for God's mercy to those who die, and for those who are wounded, and for a speedy healing. Where did we come from? This was bound to happen. The arrival of Thursday was obvious from Wednesday. It was a clear and specific event, as they say. We all knew that such an event would take place in Hatay, Adana, or Mersin. How did we know? Again, I said that at this parliamentary platform at 02/02/2011 -- Mr. National Defence Minister is here too, and he has information -- that at the time I said to Syria: "The Gaziantep was caught carrying bombs from the Kilis Önerar Border Gate, and carrying weapons through it." There were very serious questions, but then there were no statements from the state, and then we went over them. At the entrance to Syria, these weapons were captured at Gaziantep. We asked what these weapons were, and we got a response from the Home Office. In response, the Ministry of Interior said: "Yes, these are materials and weapons used to make bombs." These have been handed over to the Earthkale military unit, and the Chief of Staff will take action on their destruction or whatever they're going to do, and it has nothing to do with us. A year passed, and on January 7th, 8th, 2012, 5 trucks were caught again, valued MPs. These are the materials used to make bombs. These were also examined, and they were said to have been used to make more bombs. The government has made statements, saying: "These materials entered through the Gürbulak Border Gate, and went to Syria from the Harepınar Border Gate to Syria." So, who's sending it? There are ten provinces from the Georgian Border Gate to the Pioneer Border Gate. In these ten counties, these five, six trucks, how's it going with bombs? Where's our intel? Where's the National Intelligence Agency, where's the police intel? How's it going? What if it explodes anywhere? We also agreed that, well, let's face it, that the Georgian Border Gate had passed through it, and there was no serious explanation about it, and as a result of the fear, dear friends, there was an explosion that killed 10 people in Gaziantep during the Festival of Ramadan in 20/8/2012. Again, the top was closed, the PKK did it. It was said that the PKK did it. It did this. It was said that it did this. 3-5 people were taken into custody, and they did not go after it. We say it all the time, we repeat it over and over again. Currently, valuable lawmakers are not being audited anywhere but within 800-odd miles of our Syrian border. People pass by as they please. When I went to the border villages of Gaziantep, I went across as well. There are no audits, no inspections, no inspections, and worse, there are people staying out of the camps at Gaziantep, and there are also people staying out of the camps. People outside the camps rented houses and live in these houses. No one knows how many there are. The police don't know, the government doesn't. While Mr. Bashir Atalay was here, I asked him a question the other day. ▪ Do you know how many people remain in the camps except 150,000? Do you have any work on these? When I said, Mr. Atalay said, "We estimate that there are 80,000 people outside the camp. Dear friends, you can now see a vehicle with Syrian plates on its way to anywhere in the center of the city, in various parts of Gaziantep. At the red light, there's a car with a Syrian license plate where there are at least two or three cars. I'm afraid they're not being audited. They rented a house in different parts of town, and these people live in these rental homes, and there's no audit again. The police don't know how many there are, they don't know what they do, they don't know who they are. There are some serious problems here, and just as the latest explosion at the Cilve-Eye Border Gate also took place. Again, January 23rd, 20 days before that, I filed a question motion. I said, I asked the Prime Minister specifically. On 23 January, in a neighborhood of Gaziantep, in Kızılhisar neighborhood, there was an explosion inside the vineyard, ten o'clock at night. Police officers, fire departments are leaving. In this explosion at ten o'clock, there's an explosion caused by a bomb-making substance from the ammonium nitrate. We've got three wounded. These are Syrian citizens, and they're being taken to the hospital. The government-- of course, we're investigating, we're investigating, there's no information about what happened. They're saying to the fire department, "Don't tell anyone, keep this a secret, don't let anyone hear about it." They won't let everyone in. Eyewitnesses say there's rocket shells in there, too. Dear friends, we live in an environment of bomb-making materials in our own city, in our own provinces, and worse, the prosecution wants to sue a public servant, but they won't let us. I don't know what that public servant is doing, but he's probably an intelligence officer. Unfortunately, we're in on it. Dear friends, wherever this bomb goes off -- whether it's in Turkey or Syria -- there are people who have died, lost their lives, and these people who have lost their lives are unfortunately our people. No matter where in the world, when a person loses his life, we need to be sorry. If we provide these people with the means and if these people go and do an act anywhere with the materials used to make bombs, and someone is losing their lives, I think we have a very big responsibility and we have a responsibility. We need to think about this very seriously, and we need to do some serious inspections on these things. I'm afraid it's not happening right now. The state doesn't even know where the Syrians live now in Gaziantep. He didn't give them a temporary ID number, he can't trace it. He's doing a search with the Official Gazette on the perpetrators. I'm afraid we're in such a ridiculous situation. This bomb is going to explode tomorrow in another province -- Adana, Mersin, Gaziantep -- causing someone to lose their lives. Why? Because we didn't check it out. We don't control our borders, we don't inspect the border gate, we don't have enough security guards there. We don't monitor what people who live in the city do. Where they go, how they live, what they do, we don't monitor any of that. Sadly, 13 people have lost their lives, as they did at the Cilve-Eye Border Gate. I hope it doesn't happen again, it won't happen again, but I'm telling you from here, if we don't do these inspections, we'll be in trouble, and we'll be in trouble in our own cities. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0091par0151	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. In favor of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0092par0155	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak in favor of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal on the matter. There's nothing to object to this proposal, but while I'm on this stand, I'd like to talk about a few problems with my territory while I'm at it. I'm the Alderman. He is one of the dirtiest provinces in Turkey. Environmental pollution in the region has been tolerated throughout Turkey under the name Dilova. It's a very dense region of Dilovasi industry, a region of heavy metal industry, a region of chemical industry, a region of paint industry. At night, when chimney gases are accelerated, the area -- those who use the road to land -- if your window is open, you close it, if your air condition is open to circulation, you shut it down. There's a strong chemical smell, a chemical smell that'll poison you. It's a smell that people in that area feel for 24 hours. I've explained from this stand before. Making money, creating employment is a very sacred event, but making money for people's deaths is no longer a holy matter. There's only one industry that makes money killing people: war industry, weapons industry. Besides, when you look at the people who produce in that area, you see how important they are, how big companies they are. And yet they ignore it. In the research commission established by the Assembly earlier on Dilovasi, they advised metal producers to work to stop their capacity. 50,000 tons of their capacity. Instead of stopping it, it's gone up five times, 250 thousand tons. There's a factory there that produces detergent. Every time it rains on the Dilovase ramp, people slow down to get down that ramp and make sure they don't crash, and every night, there are at least three or four accidents in every rain, mortal accidents. You know what the reason is? There's an American detergent company there. At night, when it releases the emissions, all the roads are covered with detergent and that road slips, people crash. As if all this was not enough, it was planned for the Organised Industry of the Coalers, and for the Dilovas, and now. There, the coalers were given a license; the coalers were moved. The coal dust began to fall upon all the people who lived in Dilovah; and the children's lungs were covered with coal dust. Our conversations, our motions, were never considered. Look, I, yesterday, came from Dilovasi. There was heavy rain there. I stopped on the road, brought mud from coal dust in a puddle, and I'll show it to you. Look, it's coal dust I pulled out of an ordinary puddle. Gentlemen, these dusts are falling on these children's lungs. Can a person who has a conscience here knowingly allow these children to be poisoned? Never and to the floor. All the applications we've made on this subject, unfortunately, the ruling legislators have been repelled by our friends in the region, through the governorate's channel. Dude, there's two hospitals scheduled, one school planned. Do you know where? Right next to this Dilovaite Coalsmiths, OSB. So people get cancer and the cure is here! What kind of mindset is that? Isn't that a sin for people, for children? Those people live there 24/7. Regardless of their ethnic identity, 80 percent of our citizens live there are people from the southeast, from the east. Each family has seven or eight children. The population's age rate is very small. So in Şırnak, 16.7 is the average of the population, and there is no more than 20. Just as these young children's lungs are covered with coal dust, it makes me feel the same way as a human living in Dilova. I've just been watching from my position, watching the words of our Manisa Congressman friend about the terms of the prison. Look, I'm a friend of yours, your brother, who knows the terms of prison from September 12th. Turkey has really gone a long way in everything in 30 years, but not in prison terms, admit it.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0093par0164	He did that, and so did he.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0092par0165	We served time in a private type prison, special type. Mehmet Abi knows there were 15 holes in the bottom, 30 holes in the hole, and we were given food, so we didn't see the people who fed us. After 30 years, Mehmet Haberal is being fed through the hole under the door. Is that what's best for the terms of the prison? I went, and then I got sick in a week. You know why? I didn't get a coat, so I got cold and sick, thinking I'd see you in a closed space. Where I'm sick, Mehmet Haberal said: "Mr. Lütfü, I'm warming up with a four-digit radiator here." Look, I'll tell you something: these people are elected MPs of the will of the nation. If the Speaker is being sensitive enough to deal with the fact that the soup we're having here is not hot or cold, those MPs there need to carefully consider the living conditions. I went to Mr. Engin Alan, wearing a sweater, brother, you must have just got up. No, I've been up a long time. He said. I mean, that's how I saw your sweater, like it was wrinkled. No, we have two sweaters here. I have to wear a sweater for a week. When I brought the 2nd sweater, when I put on this sweater, I returned it. The Department of Health gave us a step measurer on the budget, remember? They didn't give this step measurement to Mr. Engin Alan. What's the reason? This could be dangerous. The former Minister of Health was here, I just saw him. Why did you give us this dangerous thing, Mr. Recep Akdağ? Why did you give us such a dangerous device? The prison administration won't let Engin Alan be in danger. Look, I'll tell you something: these lines are all temporary. You never know who's gonna be where. It may be possible to visit you in the same prisons one day. It's possible, it's life, times change. I visited the Prime Minister who is currently running us in Pınarhisar Prison. But, for God's sake, let me remind you of the points I've seen when I visited him, there are some who have gone. Every day we have 100-150 of our friends, visitors, who are open-minded, who, regardless of their proximity, are open-minded; the food is clanging, gani; the sensors on the doors, the cameras on the security. There was a young prosecutor, I don't remember his name coming up, Mr. President. Do you have any orders? Sir, our room's power is out, so if you'd just order them to turn on the electricity in our room, he says. Now, a Prime Minister who lies at this point comes here and is Prime Minister of Turkey. When you leave the day after tomorrow, there may be a time when we don't pray, we don't wish, there'll be time, we'll come and ask for them for you. We have to, we're human, we have a conscience.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0094par0171	God forbid, pray so.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0092par0172	Look, for that, come on, before you guys leave, fix these conditions while there's someone there. These are important human conditions. Whatever his ideology, whatever his identity, there is no name for the oppressed and the oppressor. He is oppressed, and he is cruel. Take it that way. I want to talk to you about something else, and I just did. Here, with the Prime Minister's testimony, you have a love deep enough to negotiate with the BDP and establish a constitution. May God increase your conversation, and may this people see. But this love also raged among the rectors, deans and PKK students at universities. Yes, PKK students terrorize Language and History-Geography School every day, terrorizing the University of Marmara daily. 12 of the archipelago students trying to get into the school against this terror have been suspended from the Faculty of Language and History-Geography. Why? You're doing a number at school. These students have parents, these children have gone there to study, is that such cruelty? Is it such cruelty, the Chancellor, who investigated seven students from the University of Marmara yesterday on 12 issues? Live your love here in the House, but don't let the universities in. In colleges, you get the parents' affinity for trying to get most of them to study on their pension, on their own salary, on their own, on their own salary, on their own. Our school records were erased while we were in prison. They said: 'We're erasing your record because of your absence.' "Madame Halide also remembers. Why? You didn't go on. Did you, brother, leave me to go on? You kept me in prison and you erased my record. Now you're continuing to do the same cruelty to the so-called students. The end of persecution isn't hot, it's awful, and you're fucked up with it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0095par0177	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0096par0180	Mr. President, what should be our agenda? I think Turkey should have a real agenda, we should talk about it. Look, we're going through a historic process, and I want to compare the two events to you. It's 1999, it's a coalition government, it's a fragmented government, and it's not very comfortable in Congress as a majority. But the back of February 28th, behind the postmodern coup, at that time, in the Imran, there was talk of ceasefire and cross-border talk, and it was coming to life. By 2004, he had been wasted for four whole years or even five years. Today, 2013, we're going through a new process. In this new process, the government has been strong, the majority in parliament for ten years, and there is only one party in this process, a prime minister who is alleged to be strong, and whether it's the main opposition, or the party, NGOs, the media, or 90 per cent of the public support the process. If that's the agenda of the House, it's the agenda to talk about the healthy functioning of this process. If we scale this agenda, one: the peace of the country is ranked in the 1st place. Whoever stands in the face of peace, politically, has signed his own death warrant. Today, when such a conjunctive has been captured, it does not give any party, power, to drown this peace process into the amamas, the whims, the tactics, the political accounts. At that time, Turkey's real agenda is to talk about its real problems. Therefore, we always invite the government to this real agenda. Why do we invite the government? Because if such an opportunity is in prison because of the opposition and the European Union and the United States -- something that everyone else has supported in such a broad range -- if this problem cannot be resolved, if the constitutional dimension cannot be spoken, if it is in prison for over 10,000 politicians in this country, if the MPs of this country are in prison -- friends coming to the third year, if the mayors are in prison, there is a terrible mistake in the justice of this country's special authority courts. Shouldn't we be talking about this, isn't that the real agenda? But we can't talk about it. If we can't talk about it, of course it's possible to decorate the agenda with other things. In a moment, Mr. Transport Minister will be answering some good questions. In this country, an understanding that puts a scarf on a statue in front of the Supreme Court -- the goddess of justice -- comes up with an understanding that makes stewardesses wear robes, and we have to think about what we're discussing, what we're talking about. Now here I'm going to give you some numbers and do the math. Friends, the Parliament is working a hundred hours a month -- these numbers are the numbers of the House Manager -- a thousand hours a year for the General Assembly. Now, when we take an hour's work within this thousand hours, at least 21 personnel are on duty, except the MPs. I'm not talking about rooms, commissions, everything else. Now, I'm not talking about lawmakers' salaries, but, look, be careful, I'm talking about extreme costs. When you put in staff and other issues, it's a very serious working hours, but I'll tell you one year's total, it costs people $5 million. Now, under such difficult circumstances, this Parliament is working, making so much money. There's electricity, there's gas, there's camera, there's Parliament, there's TV, there's staff, there's a law office, there's a library, there's a restaurant, there's a consultant, there's a secretary, and there's a staff in all of this, and there's a week to spend it, so, for God's sake, tell me, if it fits your conscience, look, there's a couple of contracts for three days. Let's cut these technical contracts, get them out in three hours, even take them out in an hour, there's no need to spend a week on it. There's a law on only subterranean waters in all of this. By God, we have no right to waste the House's time, his money, his place so freely, no conscience. Because in this country -- the morning prison issue -- was just discussed -- and there was talk about how to live on a dollar meal money, how to live on a fine in prisons, what's in prison conditions. But, some of our friends came out, and he said, "Mashhallah, our prisons are like palaces." Now, let me tell you that only the most letters a month come from prisons to face that reality. I've been to four or five prisons this week. We can't talk about Syria, we can't talk about prisons, we can't talk about energy imports, we can't talk about Turkey's deficit, we can't talk about justice, we can't talk about unemployment, we can't talk about the economy; so, in the General Assembly, how do we play the game of opposition in democracy? So, this opposition will bring in the research proposals, talk about Turkey's real agenda, you're the majority, you'll raise your hands, you'll reject them, and then it'll be called the process of making a living. No, my friends, it's not called the work of the Yasama. No one has the right to squander such opportunities in this House. That's my suggestion. We don't have a second to lose when we get a historic opportunity. This Assembly must work both for peace and for solution and for freedom, my friends. From time to time, we're told that they're in love, that they're in love, that they're in love, that they're... Friends, there's no true love in politics, just so you know. It's the art of running politics. Partners can always change. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0097par0191	Thank you. I submit to you the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since 2/811 My Prime Law Proposal is not discussed in the Commission in 45 days, I respectfully submit that it is necessary to take the matter directly into consideration under Article 37. 27.11.2012 Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt, the bidder. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0204	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise on the law proposal I made to restructure the debt of the farmers affected by the drought. I salute you all. My dear friends, fifteen days ago I was in Erzurum, and I visited Kars and Ardahan, and I came across some very interesting things. Mr. Ministers, please, listen carefully. Erzurum is no more unconceived peasants, Mr. President. In the name of the breeder's union -- here are the receipts -- we'll bring straw. They've been paid and they haven't brought straw. Right now, people are hungry, miserable. And because there's no hay, what can people feed their animals? Can you imagine what he could feed her? Yeah, people feed their animals pasta, guys. Please see what the AKP government has done to Turkey. People feed their animals pasta, pasta, sir; they can't find hay in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0099par0208	That's right. Macaroni's cheaper.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0209	Look, I'm going to paint it now. Yeah, here's a picture of the animal eating pasta and pictures. Guys, look!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0099par0210	And the pasta you guys give away for free, huh?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0211	Yeah, you give away these pastas for free, and people feed them to their pets.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0100par0212	Can't animals go on a diet?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0213	Now, this Minister of Agriculture has made Turkey so much love, Mr. Prime Minister. I swear to God, I'm surprised. I said, "I guess that changes the Minister of Agriculture; it doesn't change or reward."
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0101par0214	Work, be you!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0215	Look, my friends, Turkey is an agricultural country, can you imagine, and they're feeding their animals pasta in the Akşar district of Şenkaya district of Erzurum. Here are the pictures.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0102par0216	It's the same pasta that the creamer was handing out.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0101par0217	It doesn't look good, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0218	I'll show you from here, close up. Dear friends, my ministers, look what Turkey has become. And you know what else? Do you know what the breeder's association did in that area? They said: "Give me the money, and I will give you the straw." Look, these receipts. Friends, Osman Workers, the Narmanian army of cattle breeders, is a Narman officer. You know what he took? He got $2.940 for 6 tons of hay. Guys, look, when did he get it? 16/11/2012, no more straw. I'll tell you another one here, the same person took the money, took 15 tons of hay, took $7.350. It's dated 08/11/2012. Dear friends, we have begun to defraud our citizens. I went to Erzurum, and went to the gate of the cattlekeepers, and the door was closed, and he was gone for a week. No money, no straw, believe me, honestly, no animals.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0103par0222	Pick it up, pick it up. Camera's here. Pick it up.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0223	Girl, look, shoot this. Take a picture of this, brother, of what this AKP government has done to Turkey by the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Mehdi Eker. Let Turkey see these pictures. Yeah, well, now people are feeding the animals pasta.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0104par0224	And the pasta delivered by the AKP.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0225	Look, I said to the people, "Why are you feeding them pasta?" He said, "Sister, what should we do?" The pasta is 700 lira a ton, and the hay is $1.100 a ton. I said, "Yahu, now, this animal is eating pasta, so how's the meat?" Brother, what difference does it make? And the pasta is made of wheat, he said. I looked, it makes sense, so can you guys see the intelligence of our villager? Now, I don't have time. Dear friends, dear ministers, I beg of you. Look, the ships from the Black Sea have been seized. The hay from Ukraine... they don't give, our defrauded peasant. I beg of you. They've confiscated ships on the Hopa side of customs. Now -- I swear -- in Ardahan, in Kars, in Erzurum, in Arzum, in Ağrı, nowhere is there hay, and there is no hay. I called the President of the Central Union of Agriculture Credit Co-ops, and he says, "What shall we do, sir, we will send it?" Erzurum says, "I have searched the area, and if it comes, we will send it." Honestly, people say: "The animals have started screaming in the barn from hunger. " Dear friends, we are the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So we can't send 2 tons, 3 tons of hay and give it to our farmer? Is the government so weak? I beg you to do so. Then let this Minister of Agriculture resign and quit. There's a lot of guys here, make some other friends. Mr. Prime Minister, please... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking you to seize this incident and take care of our peasant...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0105par0231	Thank you, Mr. Öpül.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0232	Mr. President, give me a minute, 30 seconds.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0105par0233	I can't, no.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0234	Well, I'm sorry for your loss.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0105par0235	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0236	Sir, I mean, believe me, I mean, believe me, I've gone, I've seen it with my own eyes, I'm sorry. You know how they feed the pasta, they boil it, they sprinkle some salt, they eat the animal.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0106par0237	Give me back the pasta, it's the creamer's pasta.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0098par0238	I'll put the pasta here.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0107par0241	I give my word to a congressman after the bidder. Mr. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0244	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to propose a law on restructuring the farmers' debt. I salute you all with love. Dear MPs, I, as you all know, am the MP of the most beautiful city in Turkey. I am the MP of Malatya, the world apricot capital, where Turkey and the world's most beautiful apricots are produced. I am the MP of Malatya, which produces the most diverse and most beautiful agricultural products in Turkey. I'm unfortunately also a member of a desperate city. I'm a congressman in a city that's been forced to burn down the most beautiful apricots in the world.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0109par0246	Let's see the apricot.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0247	Dear friends, I'm a congressman in a city that's getting poor every day. Why precious friends? Look, you're saying it's official...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0109par0248	Where?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0249	...substantiated last year...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0109par0250	He's on the ceiling.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0251	...7 lira - Malatian lawmakers listen to me - it was $7. Right now, the price of the apricot, the price of this world's most beautiful apricot, is now $2.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0110par0252	Bravo.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0111par0253	Why don't you take that straw and eat it?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0254	Look, my dear friends, it's $1.5... we're paying $1.50 to produce this apricot, $1.50. Paying $1 for medicine and fertilizer. If there's irrigation, there's 50 cents to be paid for irrigation. So the price of this apricot is $2.3 to the farmer. How much is this apricot sold in Malatya? This apricot is sold for 2 TL, dear friends, thanks to you. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, dear friends, this is the truth, and it's the truth, however hard it may be for you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0112par0258	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0259	Now, last weekend, I visited Malatya, Doğanşehir district. I went to Günehir district of Doğanşehir, to the villages of Willow, Elmalı, Beğreli, Kapadre, and Düçüklü. Why a city that is poor, dear friends, why a city that is poor?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0113par0260	So the animal doesn't eat apricots?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0261	Look, the hay was 10 cents last year, thanks to you, 90 cents this year. The bait was $28 last year, $50 this year.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0114par0262	What do you think straw is?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0263	The meat is the meat cut, so look, it's not the butcher's price. The meat was 18 euros last year, 13.5 liras this year. So, my dear friends, the straw has grown ninefold, the bait has increased twice as much, the price of meat, the price of meat cut in the town, has been cut in half. Dear friends, I've heard the same screams everywhere I've walked this summer. Look, Uncle Rasim at the Lake of Aragir, and Uncle Haji Ali at the Bayucek plateau, and Uncle Miner in the village of Karlik say the same things: The AKP is not the way you go. Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0115par0266	How much hay is hay? The hay is expensive.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0267	...look, you're the one who started the hay imports, it's your work. In the victims, the imported victim is your creation. The apricot burned in the stove is your creation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, a manufacturer in the Tutsville again told the manufacturer of the government's stake, which is probably the only way a state can do this much harm to a citizen. Two years of state-sponsored, he bought an unpaid cow for $6,050. Look, it's state-sponsored, I'm telling you. It's been two years, and our payday is here. Dear friends, the cow has dropped from 6,000 liras to a thousand liras each. Each of these cows bought 100 houses in Doğanşehir district four times. Dear friends, right now, 100 homes, Mr. Special, the fever has fallen. 100 homes say that AKP MPs from there should be able to provide us with solutions instead of reading stories.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0115par0271	Make hay, hay.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0272	The AKP MPs say that he is with the rich who import Angus, Lincoln, and that they should be with the livestock manufacturer in Tusli, Doğanşehir, Malatya, and Burcek Yayla.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0115par0273	If hay means money, make hay.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0274	They invite you on a conscience, they invite you not to crush the farmer on it.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0116par0275	What's CHP doing?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0117par0276	Come to apricot.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0277	Dear friends, I have recently visited the markets in Malatiah. Dear friends, I've traveled on Sundays, as you say, national income has tripled in 10 years.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0118par0278	Bravo, bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0108par0279	I ask the Malatians, the Doganvillens, the Hakimhans: I say, has the national income been in your pocket? It hasn't. Someone here is lying, or the people in Malatya are lying, or they are explaining that number. For the Malatians do not lie, but the Malatians are upright men. If he's lying, you're lying. No Malatian has ever had a share of the increase in national income in people's pockets. Whose pockets did it go into? He went into the pockets of the AKP's companions in that narrow frame. I ask you to accept this bill, which Mr. Ensar Öğüpul has given you, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0119par0282	I propose to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. The list of candidates shown to members of Parliamentary Research Commission No. 4773, 474, 475) was suppressed and distributed to members of political party groups in order to determine the measures intended for the freedom of communication and the privacy of private life and preventing violations (10/74, 471, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475). Now I'm going to read the list and vote for you. The Committee for Parliamentary Investigations on the purpose of establishing measures relating to freedom of communication and privacy violations and preventing violations [[10/74, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475]] [[10]] [[4]] [[2]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. On Tuesday (February 12, 2013) I request that the members of the Parliamentary Research Commission, elected Tuesday (February 12, 2013), at 7:45 p.m., meet in the meeting room of parliamentary research commissions found in the 4th bank, at the B bloc, and the president, the vice president, the spokesman, and the clerk, hold the election. The meeting time and place of the commission has also been announced on the plasma screen. Moving on to verbal questions on the agenda. Congressmans, I'd like to call Mr. Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. Bülli Yıldırım to the stand to answer the verbal question motions that Mr. Bülli Yıldırım wanted to answer together. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I'm beginning to answer verbal questions. The first question is the oral question of Mr. Hülya Güven, MP of İzmir, which Mr. Sadullah Ergin asked our Minister of Justice (6/43). As part of pre-professional training for judges and republican prosecutors each year, the Turkish Penal Code provides lessons in crimes and practices against sexual immunity, the Protection of the Family, the Protection of Violence Against Women, and the implementation of the Law Against Women. During the 2012 training year, a seminar was conducted on the issue for judges and republican prosecutors. It is stated that HSYK has begun training activities for the prosecutors of the republic and the judges serving in family courts in the protection of the family and violence against the women. On the other hand, some 40,000 law enforcement officers from around 40,000 law enforcement agencies have been trained in service by the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the legislation on domestic violence, violence against women, gender equality, the protection and asylum of women who are victims. I respectfully present to your high council. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/162) and 6/164). I'm answering their question: Our ministry is conducting its work on greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the United Nations Climate Change Framework Convention, Kyoto Protocol, EU Environment and Climate Change Convention, United Nations Economic Commission work. Turkey is subject to one year of emissions of burned gas, 402 million tonnes, and 11% of it comes from the transport sector of 45 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. Our ministry is a member of the Climate Change Coordination Board and is working on this with other relevant units. Our country's policies on climate change are tied to two basics. One is the Climate Change Strategy Document and the other is the Climate Change Action Plan. With these documents, the sector's mid-term long-term goals began to be implemented by identifying actions. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubbat (6/192, 6/193, 6/194) and İstanbul MP Bkent Turan (6/195) will answer the oral question motion. Our six airports received a total of 13 international awards in various categories: Ataturk, Adnan Menderes, Esenboğa, Mughla, Dalaman, Antalya and Sabiha Gökçen airports. Travel traffic in our airports increased from 34.4 million in 2003 to 130.6 million today, with an increase of 280 percent. In 2010, our share in the world's traffic increased to 2.1 in 2011 and our share in European traffic increased to 7.4 in 2012. Between 2003-2012, 4.8 billion has been invested in our airports, including from our total central budget and from our own resources, and 1.7 billion investments in public-private cooperation have reached 6.5 billion euros. In 2003, the airport was 326, and the parking area reached 628. Our active airports have risen from 25 to 49, and there will be three more in the coming year. Last year's Iğdır, Victory airports and terminal, along with the rebuilt Elazığ Airport, the passenger capacity increased from 65 million to 185 million720,000 in our airports. The oral question motion of İstanbul MP Bkent Turan (also 6/196): State Air Square Management (DHMI) is provided from the candidates entering KPSS. As a result of the deployment of the CSI presidency, the job is being hired. The General Directorate's fees are paid under the principles of Eurocontrol. As of the end of 2012, the number of staff members is 8. It's 340. Between 2003-2012, the general contribution of the DHMI General Directorate to the public is approximately 17.2 billion TL. With the improved model, the airports were built with $7.1 billion during that time, and they were given long-term leases. In this way, the public has contributed $10 billion, including Sabiha Gökçen. İstanbul MP Bkent Turan (6/197) and (6/198): The end date of Victory Regional Airport was scheduled on August 30, 2013, but the airport was launched on 24 November 2012, so its delivery was moved forward for about a year or so. Çukurova Airport will be completed in 36 months after its contract was signed on January 25, 2012, with the construction-business-development model held on December 15, 2011. As part of our 2023 aviation targets, our airports will be spread throughout the country, allowing our citizens to travel no more than 100km in any direction and access to an airport, and the total airport passenger capacity will be increased to 350m. The oral question motion of İstanbul MP Bkent Turan (6/199) is: The new airport to be located on the Black Sea coast on the European side of Istanbul will be located in an area of approximately 77 million square metres; 6 runways and an airport to serve up to 150 million when it is finished. As it is known, it was announced on January 24, 2013 that it was to be done with a do-and-work model. The main question motion of Mr. Haydar Akar (6/200) is: As it is known, the City of Marseilles Law 5216 has been granted the status of the city's municipality. Under this law, the D-100, D-130 highway and the TEM highway have been asked to be shown as "equal" for directional information plates, but both the Bigeli and Izmit have been eliminated by putting a sign at the eastern-west entrance of the central town of Izmit. İstanbul MP İhsan Özkes (6/207)'s main question motion: Construction of the connecting highway with Düzce TEM is provided with intersections on the side of İstanbul and on the side of Ankara in Kaynaşlılı. The Beyköy Organised Industrial Region will be connected to the Düzce centre and the Beyköy Organised Industrial Region. The intersection demand has been assessed, its project has been done, and it will be done within budget opportunities. The main question motion of Kütahya MP Alim Ilk (6/215) is: Production, technical properties of trucks, type and capacity approvals are in the name of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. According to our ministry, records are kept, not according to the number of wheels of vehicles, but according to the types of transport activity, the types of traffic registration. In 2010, our ministry conducted audits of 4,003 administrative fines for the owners of the truck, 69,724 in 2012. To address the problems in this area, these 4 and 6 wheel trucks have been largely resolved and have been met by the sector's demand for this direction, adding 631 kilograms and 3.5 tons. Adana MP Ali Halaman (6/238)'s main question motion: As it is known, the Ankara-Konya high-speed railway line was activated in 2011. Among the Konya-Adana, the project was launched to improve the standard of existing lines, run the two-mile line, and the speed of the project began, which would be 200km, and the project work between Konya-Karaman would be completed and the construction tender would be held on February 19th. The implementation projects between Karaman-Ereğli-Lukış and Adana-Mersin will also be started. Following the completion of these lines, the fast train line to Adana, Ankara and Istanbul will be set up through Konya within 2023 targets. The main questions of Adana MP Ali Halaman (6/239, 1587, 1616, 1617) are: sales disorders have been removed on the road to Adana-Ankara. It has been auctioned in 2009, in the region of Bala-Aksaray-Ereğli, with a bitum hot mixture coating, and so far 183km of the 285km road has been completed as a hot asphalt. The remaining 102km is intended to be completed by the end of this year. The road to Ankara-Adana, 490km long, is located on the highway between Nüğde-Adana and opened to traffic. The rest of the Ankara-Niğde highway, the 342km between Niğde-Ankara, is expected to be carried out with a do-and-work model. The tender will be carried out after YPK approval. Adana-Kozan's divided road is 60 kilometers. Between 2009-2012, the two segments were auctioned out and completed in 52km, with some disruptions in the superstructure due to seasonal conditions in which traffic was opened. The corrections started in May 2011, and these malfunctions were fixed by the contractor, and no additional payment was paid under the Contraction Act. The rest of the entire project remains to be built for five miles [8 km]. The question of Eskişehir MP Kazım Kurt (6/251) is: The entire road has been completed as part of the Sikhisar-Eskişehir-Bosizeg Project, with hot asphalt covering and bridged intersections at the Eskişehir city crossing. Physics in this project is 97 per cent, and small studies in art structures continue. The project has spent nearly $385m under different tenders. The bet is that there is no additional production of the Eskiþisar-Eskişehir-Bosize Project, although it is not in the tender. All of the work that took place in 2011 as part of the supply construction has been continued, and no work has been done except within the scope of the tender. I'll buy it. The question number 6/252) of Eskişehir MP Mr. Kazım Kurt (6/252) is continuing to build a fast train link through Bilecik and is intended to be completed in 2016. The scholarship-boat railway line has been decided to tender the implementation project and will be tendered later this year. The projects will contribute greatly to the development of the Eskişehir industry and access to the sea. The main question of our Kütahya MP, Mr. Alim Izwar (6/308) is that the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey shall be secured by Article 22 of the Constitution, where everyone has freedom of communication, where communication is fundamentally confidential, and that communication cannot be blocked without the written order of law-appointed authorities. As the Constitution stipulates, within the framework of the law, the prevention of acts of intelligence, anti-terrorism and crime, legal listening to the detection of the criminal... Intelligence, police and gendarmes have only been granted such a permit, and other than that, no institution or person has the authority to listen. As the TİB was established in 2005, legal listening requests for this matter were also under discipline. Therefore, decisions on the detection of communication through telecommunications, listening, recording, evaluation of signal information are under the jurisdiction of the authorities of the criminal investigation. In addition, there is no legal basis for the illegal wiretaps of the phone call... and further deterrent arrangements are under way. Today, a research commission established by all our party groups to participate in this issue will conduct extensive studies, and if there are illegal wiretaps or listening that exceeds its purpose in the legal framework, it will detect them, and will bring the measures taken in front of our great Parliament. The main question, Mr. Idris Baluken (6/334), is: The Bingöl-Diyarbakır road started at 121 km; the divided road tenders began in 2011; the construction work is still under way; it is intended to be completed in 2014. The Bingöl-Mush Road began production in 2008, and was completed in November 2011. Bingöl-Erzurum Road is 181 km; the divided road work began in 2011, and is still under way. Information on traffic accidents is being held by the Security Directorate. However, if we look at the statistics published, the rate of traffic accidents caused by road defects is only 0.49 percent, or less than 1%. More of the driver's faults cause accidents. There have been 41% decline in road accidents in our country. In spite of what? The number of cars in traffic is doubled, even though the number of travel has doubled. The main factor in this is the introduction of divided roads. The main question of Giresun MP Selahtin Karaahmetoglu (6/366) is: The Tirebolu-Yecele separation-Köğurşı-Catak-Naturkent-Word group road is 47km. In 2010, the land routes were taken into the network. Maintenance and asphalting are under way to improve the physical infrastructure of the road. The road was paved with asphalt coverings in the 28km area of 2012, in 19km from Yasalah, and was opened to traffic and provided the necessary road comfort. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu (6/387) answers the main questions of Mr. Süleyman Çelebi (6/397): We answer together because these questions are the same. There were problems in the subgate of Istanbul Canary Station, flooding in the rainy weather. These problems have been completely resolved by June 2012.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0120par0449	Mr. Suleyman objects to your answer, sir.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0121par0450	No, I'm not. We have the law to thank for what's done right, thank you very much. The main question of our Ardahan MP, Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/430) is: Kars-Ardahan road was completed with sathi coated about 98km and 8km before 2003, 95km after 2003. The entire road was auctioned for a hot asphalt coating, and in 2012 the Kars city crossing took place at 6km, 5km, 14km in total. As a result of these studies, 119 million were spent. By 2015, the entire road will be covered in hot asphalt and finished. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu of Kahramanmarash MP (6/454, 548) and Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova (6/983) have a question proposal for fast train projects (6/983). I answer: High-speed railway projects that are being implemented can be implemented if certain criteria are met. At the top of these criteria comes the country's resources and demand for transport. These criteria are assessed by the economic development of the projects, population, geographical position, tourism potential, and are designed by feasibility. Some of these projects have been invested in the investment programme, some of which are still working on building or getting into the study project. In 2023 transport targets include the Mersin-Adana-Osmaniye-Gaziantep speed train project; Kahramanmarash will be connected to this line via Nurdakü. On the other hand, the Bursa-Fishesir-Izmir Line implementation projects will be completed and will be carried out within their 2023 targets. By 2023, the goal is to reach the 10,000km high-speed railway line, which is 34 provinces, or two-thirds of the population of the 34 counties. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/495): There are 70 telephone plants in our province of Ardahan, all digital, no analog power plants. In addition, telephones and internet services are provided in all districts, districts, villages in the service area. It's true that there are faults from time to time. In less time at city centers, in rural areas, these malfunctions are being repaired within 17 hours at the latest. If for various reasons it can't be served, I'm entitled to a customer's dream of service under the relevant clauses of the subscription agreement. In addition, Turkey's TELEKOM has long been a free service for domestic calls from home phones across the country, from 7 am to 7 p.m. The main question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/546) is: As of the case, there are 1,540 square meters of terminal building at Kahramanmarash Airport, 400,000 passenger capacity, and concrete asphalt track, apron and taxi route at 2,300/45. There are navigational devices at the airport, 1 VOR, 1 DME, 1 NDB. There's no argument that he's insecure. As part of the modernisation of the airport, the runway was expanded from 30 meters to 45 metres, and the additional apron was made. In addition, there has been a long-standing publicisation problem for further extension of the track to extend another 500 meters. Finally, the solution to this issue has come to an end. When this happens, the existing 2.300/45 will be extended to 2.845. There were no expeditions until 2003 at Kahramanmarash Airport. Currently, Turkish Airlines from Ataturk Airport (Ataturk Airport) to the airport organises a four-day flight from Ankara to Anatolia. Also, Kahramanmarash Airport is part of the incentive. The summer schedule will also take place three times a week from Sabiha Gökçen. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/547), (6/549), (6/5550), (6/551), (6/572), (6/623), (6/624), (6/625), (6/625), (6/626), (6/627), (6/638), (6/638), (6/1305), (6/1308), (6/1310), (6/1310), (6/6/13112), (6/1324), (6/11), (6/165), (6/14/14/14), (6/14/14) (6/14) (6/14), (6/14) (6/14) (6/14), (6/14) (6/14), (6/14) (6/14), (6/14) (6/14), (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6) (6/14) (6/14) (6) (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6/6/14) (6) (6/14) (6/14) (6) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6/14) (6/14) (6/14) (6) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6/14) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6/14) (6) (6)) (6) (6) (6/6/6/6/6) (6) (6) (6/6/6/6/6/6/6/6/6) (6) (6) (6/6/6/6/ These question motions belong to all the ways of Kahramanmarash County. In addition, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan (6/1696) and (6/1697) oral motions -- related to the village roads -- I will answer them together. While deciding road standards, many features are considered, such as the planned or existing road type, the current and predicted traffic volume transport ability, traffic safety performance, publicisation, construction, maintenance, business and other costs, and environmental properties of the land road. For this reason, ground road personnel make decisions in determining the standard, due to capacity analysis, project and traffic safety assessment, as a result of cost-effective and landwork. In this framework, (6/547), (6/549), the answer to questions (6/551) is: The development of the physics, geometric infrastructure of the north-south axis by the General Directorate of the Highways to enable commercial traffic to function as a transport corridor in our country's geography and to increase competition against other countries. In the province of Kahramanmarash, there is an army, Sivas, Kahramanmarash, Alexander's northern-south line. Also, the Kahramanmarash-Kayseri connection is available in the road network, and is provided on the road route of Kahramanmarash-Pınarbaş-Kayseri, most of which are divided roads. The route, which would connect Kahramanmarash from the village of Bekenli to Çalayancirit, was part of the study project in the 2013 Investment Programme. (6/572): The tender for the industrial intersection on the road to Kahramanmarash will take place on February 22nd, this month. The other three intersections were held on February 12th, which is today. (6/623), (6/624), (6/625), (6/638) questions: The path of the Heromarash-Andir is 48 km. The total cost of the project -- I'll tell you about it -- 79.6 million. The total spending of the project by the end of 2012 is 68 million and the rest is intended to be completed by the end of 2013. The heromarash-Nurdau is 30 miles, divided road. The total cost of the project is around 12 million TL. It was spent $4 million by the end of 2012. The project is intended to be completed in 2014. The heromarash-Salleyman distinction is 44 kilometers long. This is a road in the north-south corridor. The total cost of the project is 38 million 250. The total spending of 2013 is around 4.8 million. The project is intended to be completed in 2014. The Solomonian segregation of the 2013 Investment Programme - the 45km long and divided road of the sky. The total amount of project in the way of the sky is 372.2 million TL. The project was spent $31.5m by 2012, while the rest of the project continued to be completed by the end of 2014. (6/626) The main question is: Suleimanian, Cantarma and Tekke, historical bridge repairs have been completed and a total of $500,000 spent. Narlı-Pazarcık is a total of 53.5 million Turkish liras, which are divided 48km by the Elazıg region border. He spends 14.4 million by the end of 2012. The remaining 3km will be finished by the end of this year, since there's not much work to be done because of the cadastro studies at the Indian crossing. (6/1305, 1308, 1309, 1312, 1315, 1377) is a 16km county road. The road in question has a platform width of 10 kilometers. It is intended to be completed by 2014. The road to Göksun-Elbia is 67km long. Project work has begun to transform this path into a divided road. The project will then be offered to the investment programme. The 62km long Kahramaraş-Azur's segregation-Raising road map purchases have been initiated. The Markety-Shadow Road is 52 kilometers. 30 miles divided into traffic. The tender for the remaining 7km divided road is intended to be completed by the end of this year. The heromarash freeway is completed in 2x2 lanes, with a bit of a hot mixture, and is still under construction of 2x2 sathi-plated roads along the path to Kahramanmarash-sky-Kayseri. It is also part of the Kadirli-Andırin-Geben Road 2012 Investment Programme. The 27km zone between Reminiscence-Geben is intended to be completed in 2013 and improve its geometric standards. Questions (6/1479, 1480, 1486, 1489, 1490, 1492) are still under way to Göksun-Elbia for transport to Ekinözü district. A study has not yet been launched in the area known as the Old Maraş Road. Projects are being carried out on the Chanarlı village intersection. Göksun Tea, Hopelu village, Ayþepınar village, Ahmetli Creek, Başbekan village, Soka Obasi, Grand Red Village, the construction of bridges and roads in Tatlar district continue to work on global projects in 2013, and details will emerge after this study. (6/550, 1699, 2659, 2660) The Elbistan-Heramanmarash connection is provided through the government through the Elbistan-Azzusun-Hehramanmarash network. The road to Elbistan-Darica, 53km long, was divided into a road divided for traffic safety, which hit the Elbistan-Darica crossing of Elbistan City. In a 45.5km area that does not exist, project work has been launched and will be offered to the programme, considering budget opportunities as a result of its completion. The 55-mile-long Elbistan-Elazig border is located on the state road route, or about 11 and a half kilometers [11.5 km] from the Willow village. The village of blacksmiths is 14km from Elbia and is on the road. The rest of the 40.5km split-way project is still under way and will be offered to the investment programme after the project is completed. Kahramanmarash Göksun 6 of the 2013 Investment Program. The area border road is 124 kilometers long and is divided by the standard of the road. The total cost of the project was $434.3m, and was spent $42 million by the end of 2012. The project is intended to be completed by the end of 2014. (6/1310, 1311, 1314, 1481, 1483, 1484, 1485, 1488, 1682, 1759, 1845, 1846, 1696, 1697) The answers are related to village roads (6/1310, 1313, 1314, 1481, 14482, 1484, 1485, 1488, 1682, 1745, 1846, 1846, 1696, 1697) and answer: As in all the village roads across Turkey, these roads are also responsible for the province's private administration. Yes, all the roads of Kahramanmarash were dealt with. Today is the Day of Salvation of Kahramanmarash. On this occasion, we congratulate and celebrate the Day of Salvation of our Kahramanmarash, and thank and thank the martyrs who have sacrificed their lives and their blood for our glory, our veterans, and those who live long lives. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash is the main question motion (6/552) of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/552): Kahramanmarash Türkoğlu Logistics Centre is intended to be held by the end of 2014. Right now there's project development, publicization work going on. The application project will be completed by the first half of 2013, and the construction tender will be held later this year. The question of Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/558): Articles on pirate computer software are organised and controlled by the Law on Ideas and Art Works and related regulations. The topic legislation organises administrative fines, prison sentences, for dealing with copyright violations, such as using computer software in illegal ways. On the other hand, to support local software and equipment in the electronics sector, our Ministry supports research, development projects and has begun since 2013. İstanbul MP Erdogan's main question motion (6/562) is related to Ankara-İstanbul's high-speed train. As part of the Ankara-İstanbul High Speed Train Project, you know, the Ankara-Eskişehir part has been opened and has been working since 2009. Work continues in Eskişehir-Istanbul. We aim to complete these studies by the end of this year and start the fast train flights between Ankara and Istanbul. A promotional ticket sale on high-speed railway lines will continue in the following courses, just as it did in Iconium, and in Eskişehir. The total amount of the Ankara-İstanbul Speed Train Project is $4 billion or $7.2 billion compared to the 2013 unit price. İstanbul MP Erdogan Erdogan's question motion 6/571): As is known, Ankara Station, Ankara-İstanbul, Ankara-İzmir, Ankara-Sivas, Ankara-Kayseri, Ankara-Bursa is the starting point of high-speed railway lines. The infrastructure here has been shut down in traffic and the suburbs have been temporarily halted because of the construction of new lines between Kayaş-Sincan, the removal of the existing hemispheres and the transformation of the sub-pass. After these studies are completed, the suburban lines between Kayaş-Sincan will be restored to serve more comfortable, safer. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/589) has proposed questions (6/717): 18 branches established in the General Directorate of Highways, 29 highway maintenance chiefships and about 66,000km of road-fighting services are served. Machine parks account for the number of personnel, traffic density of roads, geographical structures, and the current machine park is distributed throughout Turkey. Kars-Sarikamiş, Kars-Susuz, Kars-Lassman roads are located in the road network, fighting the snow, but the village roads are not in the highway network, but in the city's private administration network. Therefore, the snow struggle is not the responsibility of the highways but is the responsibility of governorships, but solidarity, mutual cooperation is always at stake when conditions are available. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's oral question motion (6/628): According to the 2013 Investment Programme, the total cost of the project is around 283 million. As part of this project, Kahramanmarasha was built in accordance with the PTT Bank project, with 7 PTT centers, 16 PTT branches. The cost of these jobs so far is around 2.1 million. According to the 2013 programme, PTT Bank was issued a total of $3,174,600 grant to the head of Kahramanmarash. Nurhak, Ekinözü PTT branch buildings will serve in accordance with the PTT Bank in 2013. Ankara MP Zühal Topcu (6/635): The total number of employees working under the State Officers' Law 399 in the relevant institutions of our ministry are 32,145. According to this, when the number of disabled personnel we're responsible for is 782, we've been employing 1,489 disabled personnel far above that number so far, these are the 2010 figures. In 2011, the number is 33,190. According to this, we need to employ 806 disabled personnel, almost 50 percent more than that, and we employ 1,445 disabled people, so our Ministry is fulfilling its obligation and allowing more. Ankara MPs Mustafa Erdem (6/656) Mr. Aylin Nazlıaka (6/1266)'s motions are the same, and I answer only: Ankara-Ayash-Beapazarı-Nallihan road 140km -10km before 2003 -- and a total of 81km is completed. Within ten years, along with the maintenance work, the road serves as sathi-plated for 71km of the road between Yenikent-Ayş-Bepazar. Hot mixtures between Yenikent-Ayş-Beypazari-Nallihan have been started, and the 18km section has been completed. In 2012, 5km of sathi coating was completed as a hot plate for 19km. In 23km between Beypazarı-Cahirhan, the divided road construction is still under way. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu of Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/670): The Afşin-Dağlıca-Sız road is 71km and the county road is in our network; map shopping has been completed in 30km of the route. The road's project work is still under way, and if it is completed, it will begin with budget opportunities. Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izwar (6/721, 723, 724, 726, 727, 728, 729, 730, 731), the main verbal question motions are the same, and I will answer for it together. With the transition of Rabbit-Domanic-Tunchable, with a total length of 35km, a total of 23km of the road was completed as a sathi coating and a single route to traffic at the end of 2012. The construction of the remaining 12km of the project will be completed at the end of this year. Simav-Ironist segregation, which is 20km long, has been completed so far, with 8km of the state road covered with sathi, and at 2012 prices, 8.2m euros were spent. For the project, 4 million were placed as a start-up grant in the 2013 Investment Programme, and the remaining 12km would be finished at the end of 2014, with sathi covering. The process of improving physical and geometric standards and routine maintenance is still under way. The project of the 57km long Simav-Kesi-Selidi county road is being done, and construction will be planned after the project. The Kütahya-Cavdarhisar-Gediz-Abide-Busk division is 126km; so far, 84.5km is complete, project work continues in the remaining 41km. Also, the Gediz crossing has been completed by 10.5 kilometers. He is part of the Rabbit-Emet-Simav road investment programme. The rabbit-Emet-Simav project was designed to be 2x1, 4km Emet 2x2. In 2011, construction of roads, landworks, art structures, and construction works were also tendered. The work of road construction in the first part of the road, including the Emet crossing, has been completed in a two-km area of the Rye-Orencik county road's destination. The Emet-Orencik-Cavdarhisar county road is 36km long, the Emet-Hisarzik-Eskigediz county road is 42km long, and the project has been done. The routine maintenance, traffic services work are still under way in the Ryddarhisar-Emet-Eskigediz county roads. Simav-Abide's state road is a project length of 35.4 kilometers and is completed as the only road with sathi coating, given to traffic. The process of the divided road project is still under way. The Kütahya-Simav-Imirist discrimination project started in 2013, with a start-up grant of 4 million TL. This grant will be increased within the year. The road between Altıntaş-Lalanapa districts of Kütahya is not on the road network. Regarding the way that connects the district of Simav, Kütahya Province, and Balıkesir Province, Sındırğı district, there are 2x1 projects in the 55km section of Simav-Düverttepe, which have been completed as the only road with sathi coating the 5km region, which is still under construction in the 15km region. The project is designed to be 2x1, with a length of 13km between the Extremism-Hisaralan Spas. The alternative route will be done as part of the Düvertepe Dam Project, planned by the DSI on a 35km road between the Citadel Springs and Izzettin Farm.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0122par0503	Mr. Secretary, if you can wrap it up quickly, there are people in the system, and I'm going to have them ask you again, and I'm going to make you answer again. Four minutes left in an hour. Both of our friends will ask questions. We won't be able to finish the whole thing, but... I'm afraid you won't be able to finish it. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0123par0507	You're tired, Minister. So Bayburt has never been so persecuted since Bayburt!
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0122par0508	Yes, if you can complete... The province of Kütahya is a road in the investment programme. The Sathi-plated divided road has been completed and opened to traffic. In addition, the construction of the Play Bridge is completed within the Dumlupınar railway overpass bridge and the Play Group. The Goldenstone Dumlupınar road was tendered in two parts of the 2011 hot coating. The completion of the hot asphalt-plated divided road will have been completed in 2013. The question of Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izwar (6/725) is: The number of contractors working under contract at PTT General Directorate is 9.550. In addition, 5,889 employees work under service. The number of distribution norms of the head of the Kütahya PTT is 87, 99 people are currently working, so there is no problem. The number of postal posts per distributor at the Turkish level was 350, while the number was 529 in France and 551 in England. PTT employees work on other days except Sunday. On official holidays, religious and national holidays, our staff is being changed. In staff work, Norm is distributed on the basis of criteria such as the work and processing volumes of executives, the geographical structure, the current capacity. Istanbul MP... I'm sorry, I'll interrupt you now. Thank you. You couldn't answer the question of Mr. Mehmet Candy? There is, but I don't think it's time. So you can't repeat the question, because there's no answer to it. Mr. Eyeborn, you have no questions, I can't give you a say. Mr. Halaman, not yours either. Mr. Trust, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0124par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the information our Minister has given us. But I'd like to thank you again, even though the verbal question I submitted for Mr. Minister of Justice in 2011 was answered by Mr. Minister of Transport. According to our information, our prosecutors and judges have had a lot of training, but we still see a growing violence on women. For those who practice violence, either the punishments given by mitigating circumstances are limited or those who are violent are released. Some of our ministers have done the law, all is well, but we can't change the mindset. Do you think or think it is sufficient to take measures to change the mentality of judges and prosecutors?
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0125par0526	Mr. Secretary, answer the lady if you want, and then I'll take the other two friends. Of course, the joke about answering our Minister of Justice's question comes from the Internal Charter, so there's an arrangement that has to be arranged because it's going according to order. So I gave you their answer. In fact, we'll give more details to our Minister of Justice to give you a written answer. Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0126par0530	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation, even though it's too late. You know very well that the province of Kütahya, especially the central and boroughs, is one of our provinces, which, unfortunately, has received at least a share during the last decade of AKP rulings, in terms of roads connecting the provinces. I'm afraid the road work you mentioned has been going on for years, but we haven't been able to finish it. In particular, we're going to have a request that the Goldenstone-Lionapa land road be taken into the network, because this road, unfortunately, can't be done with the resources of the state's private administration, and it's now the worst road network. We'd appreciate it if your ministry could save you a lot of money. And in particular, my question about these PTT distributors was compared to other provinces. Especially Erzincan....and Kütahya.. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also think that some injustice has been done to Kütahya. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0127par0537	Mr. Secretary, please. Mr. President, of course, I gave the norm staff on PTT, 87. There are 99 jobs on this as contract or service. Therefore, there is no lack of personnel on this issue. However, of course, we will make the necessary effort to ensure additional measures for balanced distribution of personnel and better quality of service. I regret to disagree with you, Mr. Light, that Kütahiya was wronged about the road.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0128par0540	Call it that, but we live there, Mr. Secretary. Look, sir, we've added 24km and 187km divided roads from 2003 to 2003-2012, and a total increase has increased to 211km; 796 per cent. Also, between 1993 and 2003... Minister, the roads you're talking about are interstate roads, Istanbul, Antalya. Sir, they're all passing through the court. But there's nothing in Kütahya. All roads pass through the Cube. Kütahya, at the intersection of Anatolia... Sir, now, from 1993 to 2003, 142 million investments were made, a good investment. There were 962 million investments between 2003 and 2012, so the increase is 678. Before 2003, no BSK, no hot mixture asphalt plating. Right now, there's 90 kilometers of hot asphalt. Right now, there are 30 projects going on, Mr. Light. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The total amount is $1.5 billion.
tbmm-2013-02-12sit04spe0129par0552	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much, thank you. Some of the questions have been answered, and the rest will remain on the agenda. Thank you, thank you. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, since the commissions will not be found after this, it is as follows, on Wednesday (February 13th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
