tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 136th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0002par0003	Mr. President, aren't there any other Deputy Speakers besides you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0001par0004	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0002par0005	There are three female MPs here. You're the most arbitrary ruler of the House. You come out here to run this private coven for fun. That's not gonna happen! Don't you have a sense of responsibility? It's a bit of a responsibility. Look at your face.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0001par0006	The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Ankara MP Emrullah Salsaş, who asked about the events in Egypt.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0003par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I congratulate you on your blessed Ramazan month, which we first understood, and I pray to God that it will be a blessing for all mankind. Over the years of military custody and tyranny of dictators, the Egyptian people ended the 25th January revolution and the 32nd year of Mubarak, so that for the first time in its history, they had the opportunity to meet democracy. Muhammad Mursi, a candidate for the Freedom and Justice Party, received 51.7 per cent of the vote in the transparent elections as part of democracy's mandate, becoming the first elected civilian president in the country's history. Unfortunately, a year and four days of Mursi period ended live in a military coup. In fact, the January 25, 2011 revolution, which had not been a revolution in reality, had been removed from the duties of dictator Mubarak and his deputy, Omer Süleyman, who had become the target of the people, had continued with all institutions and boards, parliamentary and presidential elections were held to soothe the public's anger, but then the Parliament was annulled, the elected President was surrounded, he was barred from doing business, and he was defeated when it became clear that he would not submit. Members of parliament, the coup in Egypt has been a test for the entire world, and many other countries, including the United States and the European Union, have been the losers in this test. By suspending Egypt's membership, the African Union has taken the initiative of Europe, the cradle of democracy. Our country is at peace with its anti-plot, primitive stance on the Arab street. Hundreds of thousands were gathered in Tahrir Square, which was manipulated by the cartel media to justify the coup, and the army was called into office. With the military taking over, the stock market rose by 7%, and suddenly the gas lines and power cuts stopped. This makes sense that about 40 percent of the economy shows what economic obstacles were made during Mursi in Egypt, where the rest of the army and 30 families were held. Congressmans, the coup is a theft, to say the least. It's the national will that's been stolen. The theft of national will brings corruption, lag, oppression, persecution, arrests and deaths. In the past, our country, suffering from coups, has fallen ten years after each coup, its economy has sunk, its reputation in the world has been reset. As of 2010, the EC PARTY ended military custody, becoming the work of politicians, not political soldiers. Today's past blows are all on trial, and in some cases that have resulted, the coupgers of national will are found to be severely punished. Instead of learning lessons from the example of Turkey, Egyptian coupgers, unfortunately have become the 2013 bad copycats of our coup d'états. After the night of July 3rd, the Muslim Brotherhood of Brothers and anti-victims, who had decided to resist the mutual coup, quickly emptied Tahrir Square, where the poor people and the occupied continents had been deceived after the night of July 3rd, had filled the squares in almost every city, primarily Adeviya Square, so they had to start civil resistance against the coup. This glorious resistance continues to expand day by day. In the face of this determination of the Egyptian people, the coup gang was quickly resolved, and many political actors who had been assigned the role of coup extra quickly changed ranks, realizing that they had made a great mistake. This angered the coupgers, and on the morning of July 8th, people who prayed were shot directly, killing 53 women and children as a result of this foul attack, more than 300 people were injured. This massacre in Egypt reminds us of the ugly face of the blows. After this bloody incident, the prosecutor Abdulmecid Mahmoud, appointed by the coupkers, resigned, and Ezher Sheikh Ahmed et-Tayyib, who was with the coupters, and the leading political figures of the country, strongly condemned the massacre. After July 3rd, all opposition media, including seven television stations, were silenced, 690 were arrested, 84 were martyred and over 1,000 were injured. Members of parliament, on July 3rd, the reputation of Tahrir Square, mentioned by freedom and revolution, was destroyed in the backyard and publicly summoned by the army, and the honor of Tahrir was defiled. From here, I salute the Egyptians who claim the vote from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Hail the glorious people who raised a flag against the thieves of the national will, hail the people who filled the squares to claim democracy, hail the heroes who stood up against the tank, the ball and the gun, the people of Egypt who wrote a great epic story. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan (Iğdır) who wants to talk about Iğdır's problems.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0005par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to show you a magazine, or rather, an operational bulletin, which is a formal document. Iğdır Municipality's 2009-2010 Action Report. We thought that the municipalities were interested in roads, water, cleaning, sewers, the daily problems of citizens, even though there were different examples of this. However, the city of Iğdır had very different goals, very different desires, desires. I would like to read to you in the language of Adem Yaşaş, director of Iğdır Municipality, about how the municipality should operate, how the future should be planned, and what he wrote. It says that about 400 personnel are working in the city. All municipal personnel are of Azerbaijan origin and are employed by previous administrations to prevent the administration from implementing the policy it wants. However, it may be possible to overcome this situation with measures that will match this situation. At the point of this situation, the current municipal administration is not enough. The Iğdur needs a macro-level program. First, we need to identify problems and make it a solution policy that corresponds to the freedom of Iğdır. Note here, please: the demographic structure of the city is the basis for the existing system. Without scaring the Azerbaijans, the policies that will be created suggest that we need to change the controlled population structure of Iğdır. Now, this citizen, who is the zoning director and vice-president of Diyarbakır's quota, says these things, but the Home Secretary is wondering what he's saying, the Iğdır people, the valued MPs. What does Congress say? What does the Council's Internal Affairs Commission say? So there's a municipality in a province that needs to serve there, but how do we change its ethnic structure, and how do we control it from a certain ethnicity? That's not enough, your bureaucrats there are meeting at the head of your deputy governor, and the deputy governor is pressuring for the pre-election construction of illegal structures that need to be destroyed. He says: "This decision will surely come before the elections." I ask the Home Secretary from here: Are you aware of these events? If you haven't heard, why are you sitting in that chair? If so, why don't you process it? So you're trying to change the ethnic structure of the PKK and the BDP, Mr. Minister of Interior and MPs from AKP? No, if that's not what you're doing, I'm wondering if you have a claim on the next municipal election at the town hall. Or did you leave it entirely to the PKK, or did you leave it to the BDP? These questions need to be answered from this stand. And as if that wasn't enough, now you're making a scene. You take away our citizens there and you give them to others. And that's not enough, you're taking down the Candervis police station, which provides for the safety and safety of the citizens, so you're saying: "O patriots in Igdir, take care of yourselves, we've ignored Iğdır. And your practices are consistent with that. The BDP Manager's zoning director and AKP's Deputy Governor are one to the other, and the Home Secretary of Interior, unfortunately, doesn't say a word about it. Dear friends, the state will do it. If you, as a state, can't do as a government, make sure that the Impulse will do whatever it takes, as it did in the past, today and tomorrow. But the heart wants the government to do it first, the government to do it. If you're the government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if you can't, if you've agreed with the PKK there, make sure that he will do what he has to do. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0006par0036	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0007par0037	Mr. President, Mr. Oğan reflected different information in his speech about Iğdur. Adam made an assessment of a speech that he had made. I'd like two minutes of your word as acting Iğdır.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0006par0038	Here you go, Mr. Buldan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0007par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I've just heard the speech from Mr. Sinan Oğan, MP. In fact, there's nothing in Iğdır, through a speech by a zoning director, or a statement he's made, to break up the brotherhood between the Azerbaijans and the Kurds that really happened. I know very well that since Iğdır Municipality took over the municipality, Azeri treated the Kurdish staff better than he did. Azerbaijan employees have begun to receive the salary from the mayor of BDP, who had previously been unable to receive from the mayor of the MPP. I would like to point out that there is no conflict between the Azerbaijans and Kurds at this time, and that the city of BDP has no such intention. I'll look into it, investigate it, but I want to make it very clear that you have no such intention.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0008par0045	Official bulletin, city hall's writing.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0007par0046	We'll talk, Mr. Okan. We'll talk. I'll have it examined, too, Mr. Adam. But I want to tell you from here that there is no such intention, that there is no such thing. No one can change ethnic structure, especially in Iğdır. For years, the Azerbaijans and Kurds have lived as brothers, and then they will live on. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0009par0049	Thank you. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu, who wants to talk about the problems of the Polatian farmer.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0010par0055	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise regarding the problems of the Ankara Polat farmer, the grain farmer, but before that, I'd like to bring to your attention a note that I just received: Ali Ismail Korkmaz, student of the English Department in Eskişehir. On June 2nd, he was attacked by four people during a fight over the events of the Trip, and today, as a result of a 38-day struggle for life, we lost this blessed day of Ramazan. I ask God's mercy, my condolences to his grieving family. My dear friends, Polatlı, right next to Ankara, the capital, is a town much larger than our 35 provinces. He lives heavily on agriculture, grain agriculture. Of course, Poletlı has other beet farms, such as onions, but mainly grain agriculture. About 500,000 tons of grain are produced, on average, year-on-year. It has 216,000 hectares of farmed land. Now, you know that agriculture is a strategic sector, we all know, very important, that no country is capable of developing without agriculture, that agriculture is very good in all developed countries from the United States to Japan, and that civilization has been built on it. In our case, since the 2000s, Turkey's growth average has been 4.5 per cent, while in agriculture there are about half as many as 2.4. Of course, it's a big problem for Turkey, and it's unfortunately walking out of production, based on agricultural imports. Agriculture is very difficult. I'm trying to address this in the Plan and Budget Commission -- from time to time -- issues related to agriculture, problems of the Ankara farmer -- as well. Recently, even though the Bala farmer removed the harvest, the product remained in his possession because the Earth's Harvest Office had not established its necessary units in villages, it could not sell or the farmer had to sell it for very low prices. I'm afraid that's the kind of trouble there is. Again, let me tell you something about the Polish farmer. I've known the Polish farmer since the 60s. He had more income in the 60s, and there was a more prestigious Polish grain farmer. In recent years, the grain farmer, despite the decline in numbers, his income has dropped, unfortunately, his reputation has fallen. The farmer's in a lot of trouble right now, trying to sell his product as soon as possible. Prices are too low. There's a gap between prices -- the numbers are very low, of course -- they're selling under costs. In May, the Polish farmer suffered a great deal of anxiety. The Sakarya River dried up, and they couldn't water it. For many years, there has been a tale called the Skypinar Dam. In Poland, the story has been repeated, but the Skypinar dam is still not around; it has never been able to water. At the moment, the Polish farmer wants a basin-based support, not a product base. In particular, these firms are complaining about the farmers' union from many companies, such as the agricultural chambers, because, unfortunately, they're acting politically; in the case of the troops following the power in the form of satellites, there's no use to the farmer. Techs don't go out there; engineers, agricultural engineers don't go out there. The farmer doesn't know what to plant. There's no product manipulation at all. They don't even help with the equipment selection. There are these kinds of problems. Electricity, in the same way, is the height of electricity prices used in irrigation, and because of this drought, many Polish farmers are unfortunately falling into the hands of the loan shark. Near Ankara, the lack of interest in the Polish farmer near the capital is a very important example of the state of agriculture in Turkey and how troubled it is for all of us. From now on, the Department of Agriculture needs to behave differently. Our Minister -- almost the most posh Minister, unfortunately, within the Council of Ministers -- needs to take care of the farmer. I hereby pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0011par0067	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our Elazig province, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and Internal Charter 105 of the Constitution on the issues of agriculture and animalism that need to be investigated and taken care of. 22/03/2012 [[Elizipt]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] 7) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] 8) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Yozgat]] [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] 13) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] The total land of Elazıg is 915,135 hectares of the total land, with 264,180 hectares of farmland, 450,965 hectares of meadow-mera, 130,403 hectares of forest-fields and 69,587 hectares of other land. The irrigable farmland is 213,659 hectares, and can water 137,273 hectares. The plains of our elizim are few but very efficient. In these plains watered by large streams of water, wheat, barley, rice, sugar beets, tobacco, beans, peas, lentils, lentils, figs, corn, onions, garlic, cotton, grapes, apples, pears, apricots, walnuts, almonds, and berries grow. Among the growing products, cabbage, melon, and strawberries have become an important source of income. Agriculture and animalism are the engine sector of development. With rich agricultural products, our province has contributed substantially to our country's agricultural sector in the past tense. Animal farming activities, which have a significant share in agricultural sector revenues, are mostly cattle breeding. It's followed by small heads and poultry breeding. In Flora-rich areas, beekeeping is performed. Animalism in our Elazig province has declined year after year, starting in 2003. In 2003, the number of cattle was 118,858, while in 2011 there were 114,304 small animals, 370,944 animals, while in 2011 there were 345,200. The number of winged animals was 7,223,500 in 2011, with 2,680,487 in 2011 and the number of bee hives declined at 73,678 in 2003, and 43,477 in 2011. As throughout our country, the situation of our farmers in Elazig County, who deal in agriculture and livestock, has become more and more difficult every day. The rising costs of seeds, diesel, fertilizer, and agricultural fighting medicines, which are used in agricultural fields, increased the price of bait every day, as well as the decline of the value of its products under difficult circumstances, left our farmers in an economic difficulty, no longer able to plant their fields. This has increased migrations from Elazig Province. In the last eight years, despite a total of 65 per cent inflation in our country, there has been an average increase in input prices by 150 per cent -- close to three times the amount of inflation -- and product prices have been in place. According to this situation, the farmer was crushed by inflation from one side to higher entry prices, which, on the other, increased by up to three times as much. In 2002, a farmer who had to sell 3.1 kilograms of wheat to buy 1 litre of diesel has to sell 5.5 kilograms of wheat in 2010. In Elazig Province, agriculture and animalism investments are not enough. In 2011, even though there were investments in agricultural investments, 418 million and 67 thousand Turkish liras in our district of Elazıg, which were very small as populations and agricultural land, our province of Bingol, which is 27 million,11,000 Turkish liras, again our border neighbour Malatya province, 77 million, 53 thousand Turkish liras, another border neighbour of ours, Diyarbakır province, even though 418 million,77,000 Turkish liras were invested in our province. For the purpose of watering 51,000 hectares of land, although it was built 20 years ago, the still unfinished Kuzova Watering Project and the Ayyuptles' irrigation unit failed to provide services due to energy debt, the Elazığ agriculture is negative. These two projects must be carried out at once and presented to the services of the local people, where people like the ancient times should be allowed to take care of their land and not migrate. In our Elazig province, in order to develop agriculture and animalism, to create agricultural industry, to get enough of agricultural support, to investigate reasons that affect the agriculture and animalism sector and to take the necessary measures, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the terms of Articles of the Constitution and Internal Charter 104-105. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the difficulties of law enforcement members and measures to be taken in terms of their rights, we propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Constitution. With all due respect. 27/3/2012 1) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] 3) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Antalya]] [[Kastamon]] 12) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] Our police officer, whose primary duty is to prevent the crime from being committed, to prosecute the crime, and to transfer it to the courthouse with his evidence, is a very difficult and capable of using a weapon when he does his duty. However, our police officers, who are constantly involved in crime and crime, who are willing to sacrifice their sacrifices to ensure public order and security, to protect the safety of lives and property. The police are collateral for security. In an environment where there is no security, there is no mention of health, education, transportation, trade, communication, and all kinds of healthy environments, and in return, security cannot be established without our police. However, security guarantees have huge problems. Although problems are accepted by everyone in existence, there are no steps to resolve them. In recent years, police reports of suicide and insanity have increased. Studies have revealed that police are the highest suicide rate in our country. It's not a coincidence. Unfortunately, our active police officer in the fight against crime and crime is suffering from chronic health problems, which are first disturbed by the psychology of the police. Most of our police's working conditions and environments are organised by the chiefs. This naturally creates the infrastructure of the most important problem, and the measurement of sub-prime relationships or non-relationships is the source or solution of the problem. The police are civil servants under State Officers Act 657. The rights of salary and many autonomy are shaped according to this law. However, working conditions and working hours differ beyond comparison with other public officials under this law. While other public officials average eight hours a day during certain working hours, police hours vary by 88 per cent compared to other government officials. While other public officials are resting on weekends, religious and official holidays, New Year's and other special days, the Police Service is working harder to ensure security these days, disrupting social activities and family relations. Police officers who want to take advantage of the official holiday are vacationing by spending their annual vacations in the event it's approved by the higher authorities. In exchange for the police's overwork, a fixed, small amount of hard work in his salary constitutes an incompatible injustice to his working time. Overpayment from other public institutions does not reflect on the payroll, but the extra payments received by the police are the same as the salary taken on the payroll. When other public officials retire, there is no reduction in their salaries, while police salaries are reduced by half when they retire, and pensions are still lower at the same rate. Police officers were not given this right when the way to rise was clear, according to the student situation of other public officials. While other public officials have the chance to serve in their own homes, police officers are unable to take advantage of this right, as their relatives are unable to receive financial, spiritual support, and they are not at their side in sickness and other tribulations. As you can see, those who provide law, peace and security need law, peace and security. For many reasons that are considered above and uncountable, a Commission must be established in order to investigate the issues of law enforcement members and to determine the measures to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 98th Constitution of the Republic of Turkey to improve, improve, and promote greenhousery in our country. And it's 104 of our drink. And 105. We would like to submit to the establishment of an Investigative Commission. [[Adana]] 2) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Yozgat]] [[İstanbul]] 7) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] 11) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Elizipt]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Sakarya]] [[Paddles]] [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] In our country, greenhousery is called greenhousery, where the gardens and fields are built with glass or plastic sheets. In our country, which has a total of 78 million hectares, there are 480,000 per cent of its agricultural production fields. The greenhouses are structured elements that are covered by materials such as glass, plastic, fiberglass, and light that can be controlled or edited by environmental conditions in order to ensure the growth of plants. Where temperate climates rule, vegetable and fruit farming is usually done in vegetables under glass covers and in fruit under plastic covers. Therefore, under cover vegetable and fruit farming in Turkey is seen mostly in the Mediterranean and Aegean region, where Mediterranean climate prevails. Because the climate in these areas is temperate compared to other regions. The purpose of planning in greenhouse management is to artificially create the optimal production conditions for plants to grow plants and to be produced in each period. It has also become one of the most important agricultural activities in our country because it provides a regular workforce use during the year, allowing high efficiency from the unit field to be considered marginally small areas. Turkey produces and consumes much more vegetables than it did yesterday, due to the use of new kinds and technologies in field vegetables. As a result of these developments, the Ministry of Trade and Industry is going to an arrangement that will enable industrial greenhouse companies and IT companies to benefit from incentives. All these developments have affected traditional greenhouse manufacturers. And our manufacturers can't stay indifferent to developments and especially to market demands. They quickly started renovating their greenhouses, using new technologies and manufacturing techniques. Internal and external markets force them to produce goods and goods. There's no other chance of competition. The opening of a parliamentary investigation into this issue will bring great benefits. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 10/7/2013 (today), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. It was proposed on Wednesday (March 26, 2013) that the Council's motion to investigate problems stemming from the implementation of the Law on Agriculture Lands of the Treasury was read in the General Assembly on Wednesday 10/7/2013 (now) in the General Assembly, where Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz and 22 MPs gave 10935 points and the presidency of TBM. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0012par0261	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, I have made a commitment to the Council's motion to investigate the failures of the Law on the Development of Forest Villagers and the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands. I salute you all. I hereby ask that Ramadan bear bring blessings to our beloved nation. I pray that God will grant us a cause for unity and unity. Forest villages are described in different ways. In Forest Law 6831 and in the Forest Village Development Fund, the villages within its property were described as the forest village. In our country, there are 20,000 forest villages, 7 million 601,000 forest villagers. Almost half the rural population of 40 percent is associated with forests in different shapes and sizes. Most of the people living in forest villages are known to live in less productive or inefficient lands. It is a fact that these segments are largely deprived of infrastructure opportunities. Besides, these people don't have much to do besides forest work. On the other hand, most of the farmland in the forest villages is a multi-party, messy and small family business. So, in these businesses, agricultural structures are extremely weak. Depending on this, the socioeconomic life levels of the people living in this area are very low compared to others. Given that rural areas are directly or indirectly affected by the assessment of forest resources, the living conditions, socioeconomic structures, their culture, habits, and traditions are largely associated with the forest. The livelihood level of forest villagers is below the average of Turkey for many reasons, such as the inefficient and inefficient farmland they use, the grazing of their animals in barren areas. The lowest share of national income in our country is mainly the agricultural sector and in private the forest villagers. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the 169th and 170th Articles of the Republic of Turkey, are commanders of the development and protection of forests. The population of forest villages, which were 10 million in 1980, was reduced to 7.1 million in 1997. The population of forest villages remains negative on the forest, as it continues to form the poorest part of society. Since the ORKÖY could not provide adequate funding, the local forest villager's condition has not been improved and has not been effective in removing negative pressures on the forest. Co-operatives, which should have an important place of income for forest villagers, are not used in a positive and efficient way due to lack of resources and technical staff. The Forest Villagers Development Fund is insufficient for that purpose. In particular, in recent years there has been a rapid increase in the production and consumption of medical and aromatic plants. The produce areas of these plants are usually forest and forest slopes. These products, which are produced from forests and can be expressed as secondary products, are both naturally grown and give producers high added values because of export opportunities. For example, they can be given mushrooms, thyme, treasure, pine nuts, lime, resin, and island tea. In recent years, consumers' intense demand for organic products, especially in large cities, has also made forest-bought products even more important. Sadly, there is not enough work in the development of mountain and forest villages that can contribute greatly to the development of such products. We've left ten years behind of AKP power. The point of agriculture in the AKP administration is pathetic. Ten years of AKP governments have created agricultural policies on the axis of the farmer's end, the reduction of agriculture. Turkish agriculture is losing blood day after day, while AKP Governments claim that it supports Turkish farmers, agriculture is improving, agriculture has had major improvements. However, the numbers and the difficulties of the farmers in our country reveal how wrong these words are. As shown in the Tenth Development Plan, you wrote that agriculture had declined at some point, and then it had risen. By not adding to the table on this, you've given up a number of afflicted numbers on how high you're going to be on the target by adding to the table on targets. But it's not exactly what it sounds like. The growth rate, which was 8 per cent in agriculture in 2003, minus 2 per cent in 2003; 2.8% in 2005; 6.7% in 2006; 1.3% in 2007 - 6.7% in 2008; 4.1% in 2009; 3.7% in 2009. So the average annual growth rate in agriculture during the ten-year period of AKP rulings was 1.4 per cent. The average growth rate in ten years is about one-sixth of the growth rate in 2002. The period of AKP governments is the most difficult period in the history of Turkish farmers. The farmer is unable to pay off his debts due to the lack of money from the product he produces. In the face of this negative situation, the situation becomes more dire by taking away the fields, the gardens, that he has mortgaged to banks. Today, the family's months of labor and production of products do not cover the costs, the corresponding banks are clamping down, and in many areas water, electricity meters, are removed due to debt. It results in a delay in the debt of our farmer, who used banks to grow, to plant the product of the next term, and the seizure of his field and land by banks. Our farmer, our peasant, has never been left alone, so unclaimed. At the point of ten years, the farmer groans in debt, foreclosure, execution and prison clamps. The fact that the cost of input was too high, the cost of the meat, milk, wheat, corn, barley, fruit, and vegetables had bent the farmer's back. You have made it a tradition to explain the wheat base prices - despite our repeated insistence - after you have lost the farmer's goods to the merchant in Çukurova, in Iconium, in Harran. In addition, the farmer is subjected to a full ceremony to deliver his product to the Earth crop office -- the wheat. It's not acceptable for a foursome SUV to have the same price as diesel sold to luxury cars, and the farmer's tractor, the harvester, the potato. EV and VAT must be removed in the most important inputs in agriculture: diesel, seed, seed, seed, medicine, and fertilizer. Again, the electricity used in agricultural irrigation should be removed from the OTV and VAT. Maybe this way, we can give our dying farmer a lifeblood. In your ten-year-old power, the interest lobby makes money out of money, makes a fortune out of it, becomes 10 times richer, while our farmers, peasants, go back day by day. The condition of the agricultural sector in the city, looking for a way to work for minimum wage, is pathetic because of you. Now, in such a balance, how will the manufacturer earn money from the product he produces, how will he continue to produce? So, who's going to set these balances? The government will set this up, but the government is watching. The government is just saying, our Minister of Agriculture, we support agricultural products; we gave $7.2 billion last year, we raised $8 billion, we predict over 8 billion this year. No matter what the manufacturer does! I let go of the field, my lord. With such understanding now, you can't bring agriculture to a point in Turkey. One of the most important problems of the last days, even the last few years, is particularly in the animal industry. Look, since 2007, especially up and down, back and forth like a mehter team, this is the situation of the livestock industry. First, dairy producers went into crisis, in 2007, 2008, bait prices went up, they couldn't produce, milk animals were cut off. Then, from mid 2009 to late 2009, there was a meat producer crisis. Again, a number of periodical measures... $7 billion in interest-free loans were distributed, during which billions of dollars were paid to support livestock. So, what's the point today? Disappointment again, regret again, bankruptcy again. Again, people are screaming, selling 1 kilo of milk, not getting 1 kilo of bait, not paying off their debts. Because he's got a loan on zero interest, an attractive loan, an incentive loan, he believes in you, but what happens to him today? Today it's 3,000-3. He can't sell this cow for $500. So, I'm asking you, how is this zero credit? The loans have exceeded 100 per cent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result, I'd like to say that in the great cities... Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0013par0283	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yunus Kılıç, Kars MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0014par0286	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, first of all, I wish Ramazan bear to bring blessings to our country, to the entire Islamic world, and I salute your great House. Of course, respected lawmakers, this is about the 2/B Act, actually Seyfetttin Bey and DP Group 2/B have asked for an investigation into the negativity of the Law, and I made a promise against it. In fact, it shows how little they can say that Seyfettin Bey himself gave a speech. In fact, in a research motion for 2/B/B/B/B/B, with almost no word on negatives, he had the talks that we've often been used to on agricultural policies, and that's how he completed ten minutes. Now, respected lawmakers, I couldn't help but think, as a friend of yours, who was actually in all phases of this law enforcement clause established in society, as I read this motion to investigate Congress, what we've done to this community, what we've done to the forest village, the farmer, the people in the cities who don't move on 2/B? Friends, what we're actually doing is I think it's a way of making fun of society's memory, making fun of it. In fact, society forgets nothing; in fact, those who think that society has forgotten something are mistaken because the memories of societies are also shaped by some kind of persecution, affluence, affluence, affluences, the same land as these 2/B Laws, because its prior history, which has been remembered since the 1960s, the history of the land that has caused the hardship in this law, are actually much older, but is put into the Constitution in 1970, where history is taken as the site of the Law and the pre-Iconstitution. It says: "O government officials, representatives; your daughter-in-law, remove this area that has a problem with about 800,000 people in our country, which has a problem with the state, with the government, build a solution. None of the people who rule from the Constitution 61 to the Constitution of 82 are taking any risk." Later, the 82 Constitution is again subject to this issue, the government is tasked with it, resolving it. It's been tried, but no one takes any risk against social distress, and it's come to this day. AK PARTY is coming, what's he doing? Yes, it says that a citizen should not have a problem with the state, that a citizen should have no problems with the state, that we should take all the challenges and risks under it, and that we should make peace with the state and its people. That's the whole point of getting out of the way. So, what do we do if we get some income from here? Again, there we will use the forest villager's life to facilitate, improve living standards, use it in the transformation of disaster-threatening areas in our country, use it to open new forest areas, and we have a commitment to society to use the income it has earned. Let's look at where we've come from. How accurate is this law? Friends, as of the 10th of the month, as of the 10th of the 7th month, as of 2013, the data we received from the Real Estate General Directorate states that up until now, some 650,000 of the 800,000 owners have applied and have begun sending notices to them. So more than 81 per cent of those who owned the rights, they demanded to buy it, accepted the cost. I mean, they're happy at the point of resolving their problems with the government, and they're in expectation. Now, while all this was happening, we, of course, then considered the social demands, again, as friends as the AK PARTY group, we would remember ourselves very well from the Ministry of Finance, from the National Real Estate, and the members of opposition parties in the Commission -- we would ask: Friends, stop setting these prices, with a state-owned reflex. What we're trying to solve here as an AK PARTY group is the problems of the people, the problems of the forest villager, the problems of the manufacturer. So, even if it's a little lower, no one's gonna mind this country. The villager, the manufacturer, the manufacturer, is able to buy these land at the lowest rail prices -- look at the pittance -- that's how the price is determined, friends, and at these rail prices later -- we're talking about 800,000 rights -- we've seen local shortages in some areas. These came to the opposition party MPs, and they came to us. Gene, as a group, even though you object to our technique at the point of making many laws, while the country continues to suffer, we have again gone to a change in the law, friends, at the risk and at the same time, and at the cost of working persecution, and in some areas the cost of Rayic is 70 percent, yes, the citizens can't pay it. Come, let's reduce this to 50 percent in areas below 400 square meters, and let's give another 10% off to those who pay in advance. Let's help them earn their rights in four years and five years. And again, we downloaded this. Look, these 70 percent rail prices, including these criteria on friends and farmland...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0015par0294	They came for the organisers in Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0014par0295	And we've taken it down not only in the two-by-b plots, but also in the treasured farmlands for a hundred years, and we've narrowed it down to 50 percent of the land that the citizens know is their own land, that the children know is their own land, that they really see as their father's land, to hand it over to their rights. Later on, they said, about this law, about the operation, that all the opposition MPs, almost every day, brought a statement to the agenda of the Assembly, and they said, "Friends, there are injustices in these things, sir, these ramifications are not right." In fact, from opposition lawmakers, you know, when you're always talking about forest looting, forest hailing, you know, rightfully, we all need to, from opposition lawmakers, to open these lands unfairly, and maybe look at them before the AK PARTI, but they're not in our era, but in the general approach of opposition lawmakers, let them go for free, let them go for free, let them go... Friends, can this be the philosophy, the reflex of forest looting, the forest looting? Well, doesn't this country have a right to another 75 million people, except for the 800,000 claim holders, over the country's general wealth? Is it possible to give him a zero, no money, like you want it to be, like you want it to be? Isn't that unfair to the rest of the country? Isn't it the duty of this Parliament, of this Parliament, of this Parliament, not only of the EC PARTY, but of all the MPs? What is the responsibility of a citizen who has not invaded the forest in Kars? Is it also right to give free rights to others? We said no. Whether it's affordable, whether it's in a public way, but merciful, whether it's on the side of the forest village, and the law has shown that we're taking a serious distance from the changes in this way, and from the current applications that the law has reached its goal in the community, with problems with the state, with property problems, with property problems. Well, what you want to do, actually, is look at the psychology of this, friends of the general opposition. Friends, we view what we do with courage as an effort to shrink it to the public eye. And you know very well that society is giving serious support to the EC PARTY about this, taking what has been done as a great courage, and starting to pay off. You see these, you travel through your own constituencies. And since you've seen these things, because you've seen them, you've made a special effort to solve these brave, so to speak, 100-year-old problems that we've been trying to solve in public, but the public thinks they're going to make an assessment of it, and I'm going to pay respect to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0016par0299	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0017par0300	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0016par0301	What'd he pick on you for?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0017par0302	He said I was discussing other matters that had nothing to do with the motion that we gave him. But it's all about him.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0016par0303	Mr. Yilmaz, I'm asking you about those things and you can't tell me. Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0017par0307	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Yunus and I are on the same commission. Now, what we're talking about here is the victims of this 2/B. What are we talking about? We're talking about the condition of the villagers, the condition of the farmers. We've discussed the problems of the relevant segments of 2/B. Now, Master Yunus is saying, he's telling the truth, we've jointly expressed 2/B/B in election statements. But what did we call it? The peace project, we've developed a solution-oriented policy, and we've asked for these to be done. What you're doing is completely Ranta-oriented, calculating revenues to cover budget deficits... It's been a century, under the name 2/B, where the poorest part of society, the poorest part of the community, the farmers who live in those villages, the farmers who live in those villages, the people who are already in a position of poverty, poverty, in a position where they can't go on living. We still see them as invaders. Look, this is one of the things we didn't agree on at 2/B. They're not invaders, they're from their grandparents, their ancestors. This is not the issue of the AKP era, it is not the matter of the last decade, it is not the matter of twenty years, it is the process that is going all the way back to the republic, before the republic, when it began. Do you know that the poorest part of society today, our peasants, these 2/B areas, even in Istanbul, Anatolia, the people who migrated because of the impossible, can't take their place there? It's a matter of honor to apply. You're just giving me a number. He can't take it. Our citizens have no bread, no food to take home, now you have 100,000 liras, 200,000 liras, 300,000 liras... go to Antalya, and tell them about it in Aksu. Will they pray to you on the day of Ramadan, or on the day of Ramadan, or on the day of Ramadan? Listen to the 2/B people for God's sake.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0018par0313	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0019par0314	Where's the bullying?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0017par0315	What are you talking about? What are you saying?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0018par0316	Mr. Yilmaz, please take your seat.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0019par0317	Where was the bullying?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0017par0318	Stop talking about it. What are you talking about from there to everything?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0018par0319	Mr. Yilmaz, please sit down.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0020par0320	They're harassing me, Mr. President, all the time.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0021par0321	Ramadan didn't bring peace!!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0018par0322	You're fasting... On behalf of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Osman Captain, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0022par0327	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I congratulate you, our great nation, and the Islamic world on the month of Ramadan, and I wish it to be a blessing and bring peace and peace. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion to investigate. In fact, it covers Istanbul, but we -- the problem in Istanbul, of course, is the 2/B problem in Turkey -- we want all the 2/B people in Turkey to be resolved, and Antalya, and Izmail, and Mersin, and Adana. In this regard, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, our Deputy Group President, has a motion, and I think we'll see him here tomorrow. Dear friends, before I begin my words, I would like to inform the General Assembly and our great nation. In terms of agriculture, the determination of Antalya (Anthalya) on the subject of EXPO 2016 has brought great joy in Antalya, almost a holiday. We went to Paris, where all the ruling members of the opposition party, where we showed our unity, our unity, our unity in the construction of this EXPO 2016 in Antalya, and the giving to Antalya. And we were all honored by that, and we appreciated those who worked at it, and we thanked them. However, now, we're looking at the works of the Ministry, sir, this EXPO 2016, as a symbol of Antalya, has been identified as a flower for peonies. Do any of my dear friends know about the peonies flower, see it, grow it? I'm an Antalya MP, I've never seen anything like it in Antalya, I haven't heard it, I don't know. Oh, I may have heard as a name -- and I shouldn't lie on the day of Ramadan -- except, friends, that the flower that was not brought up in Antalya, which was not brought up in Burdur, not in the carnation flower, was chosen by the Department of Agriculture as a symbol for Antalya 2016; we see it as a big mistake, and we want it to be corrected. And we have four questions for the Ministry. In fact, none of the ministers...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0023par0332	There's one there, there's one in the back.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0024par0333	The Minister won't listen to you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0022par0334	Of course, it's about Mr. Secretary himself. First of all, friends, is there a decision in the council of EXPO 2016? I mean, has it been decided that peonies are symbols from the Council? Second, there's been a public investigation. In this public study, why is it often considered a symbol of peonies, although there are large amounts of carnations? A third event, and this question is also very important: does a senior head of the Ministry of Agriculture have a partner who grows peonies in Yalova, and is that why the peonies flower was placed as a symbol of Antalya and Turkey, given that partner? The fourth question is, are we going to import this peonies flower from China, or are we going to import it from China, or is the government planning to bring it from China? And fifthly, where in Antalya does this flower grow? Who's growing it? Is it exported? If so, what's our income? Who's growing it? I'm waiting for the answers to those questions. My dear friends, I'd like to discuss now the National Movement Party's motion for research on 2/B. Guys, this whole 2/B thing, you know, went on for years. And for ten years, your power continued at the time of AKP power. There are many victims in Turkey. We solved it today, until we were told we solved it tomorrow, and in April 2012, the law came out, and so far, no one has been given the deed to a square meter of land. Let's see if anyone's interested. All those with 2/B issues are complaining. The departments are complaining about this. I don't know which department's looking at it anyway. The Ministry of Forestry said no matter where he went, he threw it over the Ministry of Forest. So? The Department of Urbanism is in. He said, "I'm in." It's out. We also have the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance said: I'll take money from this. Of course, the Ministry of Finance began to own it, but the Ministry of Finance found that it wasn't as it had been seen; we'll shoot the bird of tea with the stone of the creek, we'll get 25 billion dollars from it. The things he said now have actually gone down to 5-6 billion dollars, and it's not real. For him, the Treasury Department doesn't own it either. The Ministry of Agriculture already has a voice like that, and in this regard, it's agricultural land, and people are planting it, and they're mowing it, and they have Ottoman deeds, and there's no such thing as saying, "Ottoman deed."
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0025par0342	He's after the mera, the mera.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0026par0343	He's selling the mera, the mera.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0022par0344	Guys, so, what do we want now? We'd like to re-examine subject 2/B. We asked not for the land of Unakitan, nor for the land of the Bosphorus, but for the land of his father, and for the land of his grandfather, and for the land of the Ottomans, and for the land that the man had reaped, to be given to them without money. You said, "No, we won't. " So, what are you going to do? With money. If you're going to pay with money, let's give it cheap, give it long instalments and give it to him. We said, "No, we'll offer, if they have money, if they don't have money, they'll get it." So, what's that supposed to be? You said Rayic is the price. We said, "Let the tax be given over the statement value." No, sir, not over the tax value statement, but over the price of Rayic. Dear friends, the price of Rayic is in Turkey... and these people are already in the ground, which means the government will not take from these people. How? Well, he's been planting and reaping for years, he's got a deed.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0026par0346	He paid for it, paid for it, and paid for it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0022par0347	In the 1940s, the state gave Antalya the olive groves, and said: "Make coal out of these places, make wood, clean the olive groves, cut the oak, cut the rice, and make coal out of them." Some of them got their deed, some of them didn't get their deed. So these places are now sold as 2/B and asked for trillions. Dear friends, where did we come from? Do you know where we came from? We've come from the government that gives land to citizens, to the state that takes it away from the citizen, to the state that sells it. I'll point that out to you. I mean, this is the citizen's own. Let's not sell our own place. Well, then, friend, who do we give it to? This is the state, we'll sell it. If you say so, my dear friends, then give the citizens the watch money that these areas have been looking at for 40 years, 30 years, for 50 years, for a hundred years. Again, citizens are right, friends, the government doesn't get paid 2/B, I'm saying they have debts. And the government keeps looking at it, and it's against the coup. It's beautiful. I'm a citizen of 1402, discharged in 1402. What was in 1402? Sir, the military administration that relieved you, you can't sue the Kenan Universe, the Constitution is temporary 15. Well, we picked him up, and we did good. Now, do you citizens have the right to object to these 2/B Laws? No. Is he allowed to sue? No. Is Rayic allowed to say the price is high? No. People cut off the roads in Antalya, raided the finances, everywhere... he couldn't explain his problem. So there is an Antalya in Turkey before this Road trip, point out Antalya. Draw attention to Antalya... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say to the villagers of 2/B, let the sensitivity of Mursi be shown, I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0027par0352	Thank you. Ali Ercoshkun, member of the Bolu MP, has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0028par0355	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment against the MHP group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. First of all, the group's proposal, of course, has been made, in particular, a significant assessment of the condition of the forest villagers. Indeed, as a representative of a city covered with forests, I would say that the condition of the forest villager is that we have a very serious knowledge of the problems they've been through. Of course, one of these challenges is related to 2/B. So, when we visited villages so far, it was really one of the services that the forest village had come to, that the land of 2/B could not be achieved, that the challenges that were delivered to us due to concerns about the future were being solved by the Law 2/B, which is, in fact, quite a lot of our agenda in the House, and that the forest villagers had come to a path that was really expected of us. Therefore, I thank the House for its contribution to this process. Of course, because of the other challenges, they certainly made a motion that they thought was important to them, so I should say thank you, but I also need to answer the question that the Republican People's Party representative had just mentioned, are there those who have the deed? Yes, in Simav, 53 people were given their deeds at the service, delivered in Medieca, and delivered in Alanya. That means it's all sorted out, and it's all resolved somehow. We thank everyone who contributes, who contributes.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0029par0358	The deeds of Simav are delivered to the allies, not to the rightful owners, but also to them.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0028par0359	Can there be such a thing as allies here, Alim Hodja?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0029par0360	Yeah, yeah, if there's a AKP executive who can afford it, it'll be fine.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0030par0361	Dear Light, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0028par0362	Everyone who was a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and had the right to do so began to obtain these deeds. In Bolu, the work has come to an end, and I thank each and every one of them who contributes, works, and supports. Our esteemed MP, Yunus Kılıç Hodja, has given us detailed information, actually, about the past, and we thank him. As much as we respect the motion, as much as we thank it at the point of its preparation, I will once again declare that we are against it, and I will salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0031par0365	Tell me why you're against it. Why are you against him? Why?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0032par0366	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0033par0367	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0034par0368	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0033par0369	Anthalya MP Osman, who was just speaking on the stand, has accused the Minister of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, and therefore the government of a grave and grave claim. Parliament has not received an answer from the government. Silence is consensual. Mr. Osman, we accept the Captain's claims on the stand correctly. I wanted him on the record.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0035par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0034par0371	Yes, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0035par0372	The Supreme Assembly's control operation is determined in the Civil Code. Thus, a speaker's statement there may be asked to be translated into a written or verbal question motion, but it is not moral to say that they are true, after almost five minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0034par0373	There's no such thing, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0036par0374	I said I'd take it right, and I'll take it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0037par0375	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit01spe0034par0376	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Yes, I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 136th Union. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 10/7/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 10/7/2013, a parliamentary research motion given to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by Cohorum MP Torman Köse and his friends "in order to investigate the impacts of this on similar events that may later take place" (1006 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (10/7/2013/2013), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, The Flood Köse, Corum MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0038par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish Ramazan bear to bring peace, brotherhood, justice, justice, and freedom to all mankind. My dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the parliamentary inquiry motion by the Republican People's Party to take the Ethhem Sarsuluk, which was executed without trial by police bullets, to take the center of the democratic rights and freedoms of our citizens, on the basis of the excessive violence imposed by power and police, on the basis of police terrorism, and on the basis of the necessary measures to prevent such painful events from ever happening again. I hereby salute your high council and our poor people. Again, in areas of democracy and freedom, I remember with love, respect and gratitude the hearts that are beating against fascism and dictatorship, who pay the price by losing their lives and their eyes and their lives in the streets. May the souls of the dead, the martyrs of democracy rest in peace. My dear friends, on May 27th 2013, the public movement, which began with the dismantling of trees and still spreading throughout the entire home, has caused more than 8,000 of our citizens, including our citizens, to suffer the loss of the lives of police 5 citizens, as a result of the use and terrorism of law enforcement forces that prefer to be police officers rather than police officers of the people, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Meanwhile, today, Ali İsmail Korkmaz, who took refuge in the alleys while fleeing from the pepper spray and baton of the police in Eskişehir province, was beaten to death by an unknown gang of massacres. May God have mercy on him. Ethem Sarısülük was wounded in the brain on June 1st by a nine-millimeter bullet from a police officer's gun in Kızılay. He recently lost his life's struggle for nearly 14 days and lost his life at age 27. Of course, it's a very serious event in a country allegedly ruled by democracy, forward democracy, but the fatal events of death have happened and continue to happen after this process. Although the identity of the police officer who killed Ethem Sarısülük was known by law enforcement, for a long time the identity of this person has been hidden from public and judicial authorities by police. It's a terrible event in a country allegedly ruled by democracy. Again, doubts about the injury and death of Ethem (Ethem) after his death, as if he were a piece of metal, not a bullet in the head of Ethem (Ethem). Again, after the identity of this police officer has been reported, he is called to testify a week after his name is Ahmet Şahbaz, and a week later, when he has been ordered to be arrested, he is released by the court on the grounds that he may have committed his action within the limits of self-defense and there is no doubt that the evidence will be blacked out. And I do not say to those who do not blame, and those who are indifferent, and those who do not respond to injustice, that Allah should not punish our enemies and our enemies. Give all sensitive people the strength to endure such injustice and fight such injustice. This determination to believe and fight is found in the Republican People's Party and Republican People's Party, who have no rights, no rights, no orphans, no tail in the face of the strong, and all who are responsible for this will be handed over to independent justice in the Republican People's Party's Party. My dear friends, even in a car accident, a mortal -- which is an infractional crime, a crime not committed on purpose -- in an accident in society, a trial that ordered arrests of the deceased for the instigation of his relatives, a false coup charges, false evidence and falsified lawsuits, and a trial that has kept him in prison for years, accusing the students who wanted to study without money, and arresting him of being a police officer whose funeral was carried out by the city for lack of money, has been arrested until death of Kuddusi Okkır. The consciences have asked, mankind's face is red. There is no chance of self-defense or tampering with evidence. Ahmet Şahbaz has been released. So what happened after he was released? Whatever happened at the Lighthouse, my dear friends, at the Lighthouse, their prosecutors were tried without trial by thieves, robbers, and witnesses who witnessed the death of the deceased Sarısulluk. So, what happened in the case of Ilhan Cihaner was that Ilhan Cihaner, who investigated the congregation of Ishmaela, was arrested and nothing happened to the accused who were being investigated. At the same time, the family of Ethem Sarısülük was also exposed to the media where they were threatened. So, why did it come to this? Why is it that people's democratic responses to search for rights are being tried to punish them with such violence, to be severely suppressed? Now all these people are hurt, they're dead. We said, "There's a detention dimension, there's fines." Look, nearly 3,500 people were taken into custody; 19 people were fined $9,880 for protesting like this because they stole pots and pans. The Turkish Human Rights Foundation says 101 people have been arrested, but not including those arrested yesterday and today. The executives of the taxi platform have been in custody since yesterday, and their detention period has been extended to 72 hours. The reporters were attacked by police, the attackers were not prevented. Our government, who wants democracy for Egypt, for Syria, for Libya, for Tunisia, unfortunately, sees democracy for our country, for our country, for the people of our country. By the way, when I say democracy in Egypt, aren't my dear friends opposed to the coup in Egypt, the AKP's power and the majority of the TBM? You've insulted every one of our speakers here. If you are so against it, cut off your ties with Egypt until democracy is restored, until elections are held in a free and equal environment where everyone can participate, and cut off your ties with the coup artist in Egypt. Why don't you stop? At least lower his rank, as you did Israel. My dear friends, what hypocrisy is this? Or is this a legacy of advanced democracy, something it brings us? There's no way to figure that out. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't think this police brutality is on its own, there's a much deeper and greater power behind this police violence. Behind this police violence, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Prime Minister, has the mentality of the fascist mindset, who sees his citizens objecting to him, where citizens are, and where they are, as an enemy land, as an enemy land to be conquered. Again, behind this extreme police violence, police terrorism, there's Recep Tayyip Erdogan's mentality that surrounds the walls of Vienna and the people with bright faces. My dear friends, it has been five hundred and sixty years since Istanbul was conquered. Where do you conquer, Recep Tayyip Erdogan? Vienna has been surrounded for over four hundred years, and the second siege has passed over three hundred years. Where are you surrounded? Under this police terrorism, under extreme police terrorism, our police again wrote the heroic myth. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has the mentality to bless disproportionate violence and judicial execution. If you continue, I will speak the language you understand. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is behind this police terrorism. You'll know your place first! You're just a platform or something. No matter what platform you're on, have feet become heads? There are those in society who are socially, economically backward, but who do not give up seeking their rights because they are poor, and Recep Tayyip Erdogan's mentality that excludes them. Again, by calling the third bridge "Yavuz Sultan Selim (Kevuz), Alevi has the mindset of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been repulsed by our citizens' sensibilities. As Republican People's Party members who do not bow before the strong, we are determined to end this mentality of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to destroy his empire of fear. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0039par0033	Say something about my class.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0040par0034	Tell me how you're gonna do it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0041par0035	The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement against him, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0042par0037	First tell me what's against you, then talk. Tell me what you're up against. Are you against CHP?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0043par0038	The trade is against everything.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0042par0039	So you're against everything!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0043par0040	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. Mr. Vice President Gürdal Mumcu, apart from his two or three-minute leave to force the deadline, we had no chance to make an assessment of the trip here. Now, I'd like to give you an update on what's really going on here. If the Council of Ministers talks a little slower, Mr. President, I'm losing my mind. Because they have to listen the most. There are two perpetrators: one is careless and the other is orphaned. What was reckless? Here's what's careless: when this pedestrian project goes to the city protection board... now, none of you have any of this information that I'm going to tell, because it's started such a fair, that power, against which anyone who speaks, defends Gezizubullah, has become almost a coupger. That's why people are all over the place, and no one's telling the truth. Look, approval from the county protection committee at the Taxi Banst Project is not foreseen to rape Travel Park 1 square centimetres. Did you know about this information? The County Protection Board...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0044par0045	You said it last time.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0043par0046	Yeah. I'd like to remind you again. Last time I told you, didn't you ever ask your party, what carelessness is that?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0045par0047	But, now, 8,000 square meters have grown.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0046par0048	It's over now.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0047par0049	Congressmans, please don't answer.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0048par0050	Yes, it grew 8,000 square meters. But, before we grow up, we're going to reject Reddi. You said, "Before I grow up, I'll do AVM there, I'll do residences, I'll do Gunner's Barracks." You were saying, "We won't make you do it." We were saying, "We didn't make you do it." What didn't we get this done, bullying? No, with the guidance of the law. If you had come to this position then, it wouldn't have hurt so much. Now, I'll tell you why you're acting like this. Here's the thing: there's no estimate of a one-inch rape, but there's a lack of care; they're calling in an advance order to smuggle it out of the tender law: do this -- God forbid -- and then do this. And the companies that he says are going to do this. And whatever investments you're looking for in the last five or ten years of this country, they're going to come out of it. I guess there's no other business in this country anymore!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0049par0052	Who are those firms?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0048par0053	The same firm owns the construction of the third airport. Now, this municipality will be asked: "You, my brother, who have you given the great jobs to in this decade, how much have you paid, how many of these companies have you given?" Now, these books will be opened, and there is no escape. Now, like this, when you're shaken up, they look at the pedestrian project, there's no way to walk! Instead of developing this many conspiracy theories, none of you are doing this work to your party's executives in the middle of Istanbul, one of the world's top three metropoliss, and we're working with the city, a contractor who's forgotten the sidewalk. Did you ask us if that's fair? You didn't ask. It's Jewish diaspora, it's the latest fashion. Let him look for the capital behind the HES tenders, the Jewish diaspora there, the capital there. As for capital, there is no religion, there is no faith. But when there is a resistance of the people, there is no flesh that you don't care about, there is no nation that you don't care about, there is no conspiracy theory that you don't care about. Mr. Minister of Culture was also here, I think, and we spoke to the governor on the phone, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister of the EC PARTI, the presidents, ministers, who opened their mouth in a song: "The first three days were innocent, and then things got complicated.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0050par0055	What bomb, Mr. Tarayya?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0048par0056	The bomb that shot me. Shall I open it, shall I show you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0050par0057	Let's talk rationally!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0051par0058	There's nothing!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0048par0059	What bomb? The bomb that shot me, it exploded in my back, take it, look! What bomb? It blew up in my back, let me show you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0052par0061	Mr. Commander, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0048par0062	What bomb? Go check the hospital records! Come on, I'll show you a picture. There you go... what a bomb!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0052par0064	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0053par0065	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0054par0066	Speak there! Go talk to him on the stand!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0052par0067	Mr. Commander...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0055par0068	You took out 11 men's eyes! Don't drive him crazy!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit02spe0052par0069	Mr. Commander, please come to the stand. [[Take a break from the BDP lines, Mr. President.]] Mr. Commander... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0052par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 136th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the Republican People's Party group proposal. Mr. Ünal, do you have a warrant?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0056par0004	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0052par0005	Your position, please. Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0056par0009	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are clearly in need of Ramadan's tolerance, compassion, understanding, first of all, in Ramazan month. Here, I, as Deputy Leader of the Group, did not feel the need to respond to Mr. Prime Minister, our group, to all the bullying against our Group President. With his opinion and the thought of man from the moment he began to speak, I do not answer him, and I don't think I'm responding to the speaker who just spoke, in any way, even when he used the expression "Marash's screamer" again, but the speaker did not go forward, although his time had run out, and I think he used an angry statement against one of our MPs. Because of his testimony... at least I think he knows in my mind that this statement is a statement that should not be used in the Assembly General Assembly. At the very least, I expect the speaker to apologize for his testimony. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0057par0012	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0058par0013	He needs to be punished, Mr. President. Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0059par0016	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, as I said in my speech, we shouldn't be challenging misunderstandings or anything else. I didn't use a word called marash chirping.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0060par0019	I'm afraid you did.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0061par0020	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0059par0021	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0062par0022	Congressman, listen, please, excuse me.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0059par0023	I didn't use anything like that. What does it have to do with Marashan, once or twice? Two: If we can't criticize in appropriate style here, including political leaders, what will we do in politics? Of course he'll be criticized. Is there any insult in criticism? No, there is no insult in my criticism of Mr. Prime Minister and the AKP government, which I can always say anywhere. In the other area, of course, Mr. Group Vice Presidents must first control their friends who make inappropriate remarks to piss off the preacher. I've never had anything to do with insulting our friend when he was on the stand.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0063par0026	There was no bullying, there was no bullying during the conversation!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0059par0027	If there's anything beyond my means, of course, it can happen, which is understandable, but it's mutual, and I feel that it should be judged because it's mutual. On this day of Ramadan, of course, we all need to be content. Look, it's still...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0064par0030	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0065par0031	Mr. President, I'm just saying for the record: there's no bullying, there's no insult on this bench, but the mentality that wants to derail and derail our criticism of the AKP government does not tolerate any criticism.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0066par0032	We too will criticize the Gardener.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0065par0033	Every time we talk about what we're talking about, every time we do a review, you come right out, you step in.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0066par0034	We too will criticize the Gardener.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0067par0035	Aren't you going to say anything about that word?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0065par0036	Criticize, criticize who? We're going to criticize you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0068par0037	He'll answer.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0065par0038	So, we use our right to criticize, to the end. One Prime Minister, how many Erdogans are there? We'll talk about it in a video, everything, and we'll talk about it on the stand. You're not here to scare us with taunts and pressures.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0069par0039	Mr. Vural, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0070par0040	Not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a word, not a
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0071par0041	You don't mind swearing?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0072par0042	Let me see the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0071par0043	We'll take a look at the transcripts. You don't mind swearing? Does swearing suit the MHP?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0073par0044	He said, "Sit down, sit down." Didn't you hear? Look, the one next to you heard it. You don't hear...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0074par0045	Don't talk too big.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0075par0049	Now, the Republican People's Party is the MP of Oğuz Kagan Koksal Kırıkkale who wants to take a stand against the group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0076par0051	Mr. President, as our esteemed deputies begin my words, I sincerely congratulate you all on your blessed Ramadan. I begin by wishing that our Ramadan would be a blessing for our country and for the people. I have made a promise to speak against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Dear MPs, but before we get there, I'd like to bring up a very short issue here; there's just been a number of discussions between the conversations of various oratories over and over again, and I'd like to go there. Of course it's the opposition, it's the judgment, it's the right to criticize, but the opposition has no right to insult when it's critical. Every speaker that came out insulted our Prime Minister, and just now our Deputy Director of the Group has answered to that insult. He said, "It belongs to the president." He said, "It's okay, but I want to talk to you about something else." In the alleged allegations, Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0077par0054	Sir, where's the insult? Let him explain the insult!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0078par0055	What word is insulting?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0076par0056	If you'll excuse me. Let me talk to him.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0079par0057	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0080par0058	What word is insult! I mean, come on, you're fasting! Are you fasting?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0076par0059	Shall I ask you about fasting?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0080par0060	Don't slander me! Whatever you call it, say what you call it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0081par0061	Say the word that's insulting.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0082par0062	Mr. Vural, Mr. Vural, please, have a seat.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0083par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0082par0064	Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0084par0065	But I mean, this isn't a tribute to His Majesty.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0082par0066	Mr. Rootsal, please continue.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0085par0067	Ma'am, you should give a eulogy to someone else. We're not stopping anyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you see, they're trying not to say the word, not even the word.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0086par0069	Tell us the word that is worthy. We say nothing to you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0085par0070	I don't answer anything they say, but I'd like to repeat here in the presence of the High Assembly that they refer to the Prime Minister as one of the various statements they describe as... well, the word "fascist" and "dominance" and "imparatorism." When you look at Turkey's political history, is there anything so unfair as calling a person who has been denied the right to be elected a fascist because he only reads a poem? I mean, I want to say it here in particular.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0087par0071	They don't do that! Don't bother!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0085par0072	And Mr. Prime Minister has come from that day to this day, fighting for freedom and democracy, and there is a struggle for freedom and democracy in the name of the AK PARTY, so that everyone knows that.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0088par0074	Congratulations, congratulations, bravo! A little more... I think you'd better talk about fraternal work.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0089par0075	Does that make you feel better, Governor, when Engin Pasha is being locked up because he didn't stand up?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0085par0076	Ladies and gentlemen of the law and Mr. President, I'd like to speak to you now about the motion. Of course, this motion, in fact, was made here at the point of the death of a citizen with a police bullet. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to both our citizens and our police officers who have lost their lives in these events, and I share the grief of their family, because whatever the matter may be, human life is sacred, and it must be protected. After I say that, I'd like to continue with my words. In fact, when we look at the point of the Travel Park events, our CHP-speaking MP has made a statement: "In fact, we need to investigate the back of this incident, where did it come from?" I say the same thing, and I think, "What are the reasons why?" And immediately comes a question or an answer, "What are the reasons why?"
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0090par0079	For God's sake! Don't get into things you don't know about, Governor.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0085par0080	I wonder if they're due to low interest rates.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0090par0081	Where did it fall, Mr. Governor?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0085par0082	Is it because the AK PARTY keeps rising in the polls? The constant rise of the AK PARTY, the rush of people who will not be able to come to power? So, we said we should investigate them, and we've already made a motion to investigate them as the AK PARTI, and at the end of that motion, the commission is set up, and we're going to investigate them, my dear friends, who will always come forward. Of course, when it comes to allegations of our security forces, I would like to express my dear friends...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0091par0084	When was the commission set up?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0092par0085	This committee was founded without the knowledge of the House?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0093par0086	Anyway... he doesn't know what he's talking about, so don't touch him.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0094par0087	Oh, is this a right for you guys to be teased? When we tease you, it's the end of the world. Is it true when you tease me?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0093par0088	That's right for everyone. It's right for everyone to pick on you without insulting you, Mr. President. We're asking: where did the interest fall?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0095par0089	Guys, is this commission set up without our knowledge?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0090	My dear friends, I'd like to express something about the police...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0093par0091	Is the commission set up? We don't know?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0092	Of course, if my dear friends listen, I'd like to make this clear. My dear friends, our police, which means that even if the security forces were expressed in a round way, even if they were involved in the court and the administration. Our police are doing everything they can to help. When we call our police point of investigation, we don't need to investigate because the police are already investigating themselves, and when they're guilty, they can punish themselves without hesitation, and at times they want to do regulations and service training. Right now, I've got three briefs on in-service training. I'm going to read a very short headline from one of the districts, which was published in 2007, and the beginning of this chapter begins: ▪ To protect and protect human rights and freedoms and to do so in a universal sense for everyone, without distinction, is the main duty of the state and the reason for existence. In addition to ensuring public order and security as the executive force of the state, police are the guardians and guarantees of democracy and human rights and freedoms in the legal state. Which means there's no segregation at all. In fact, the criminal is guilty, guilty no matter what the criminal's title is, and there are judges in Turkey, there are courts, there are justice. And the police department, as you know, has two tasks: one, the preventive police, and the other as a forensic police officer. He tries to prevent events as a preventive police, and then he brings the perpetrators to justice as a forensic police officer after the incident happened. Now, since the police are the perpetrators here, they took their friends and brought them to justice. Oh, what happens next? From now on, neither the police nor anyone else will know. Because, as you know in Turkey, there is a system of segregation of forces -- accept it, deny it -- the courts are independent, the courts decide according to their files and their consciences. And it is not for us to question after that, nor is there such a thing. The police department has done its best in this case, and one of the most important things is that it can judge itself in itself -- another aspect of the police force -- to serve its citizens with sacrifice -- but, of course, it's a large organization, it can have its weakness, it can have its decay, it's doing what it needs to do to remove them. My dear friends, our esteemed deputies are being asked, basically, whether police, administration, and the courthouse have been compliant with suspected public officials, as mentioned in this case. So if the police have taken away a person within themselves and delivered him, there is no such thing as an exception. On the other hand, the court investigated and released it for trial after doing the necessary investigations, but he's about to be tried. Now, in the matter of whether or not to be tried here, each subject, every perpetrator, each case is judged separately within itself. In some cases, there are suspicious evidence or heavy statements or arrests, or vice versa, not as in the Law of Punishments, but as in the Law, he may decide to be tried from the outside. This is a court of law. Every case is held within itself. Otherwise, there's no other basis in this than the principle. Now, when we look here, the police department and the courthouse department did what they had to do. Basically, when we looked at it -- we said in the beginning -- the reasons for this should be investigated -- what's underneath this whole trip thing. In three days, look, there's been a lot of criticism. The Travel Park opened yesterday, and the trees were planted as many times as they used to...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0097par0100	There's no trees, there's no people in there!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0101	...and has been opened to the services of our citizens.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0097par0102	The tree is looking at the tree!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0103	Now, here, I believe that this may have started as an innocent act, but in the end, I believe that the other parties of the House don't want it as much as the EC PARTY do. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because if there's a democracy, we're all in it, if there's no democracy, there's no Parliament, and we all don't.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0098par0106	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0107	And since we're here under the same roof, I believe that's what friends think.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0099par0108	Democracy is the tattoo you want it to be, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0109	But, of course, the opposition has a right to judgment, and he'll do it. We say we should welcome him to the truth...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0100par0110	Governor, please tell me which word of mine is an insult!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0101par0111	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0096par0112	...and I hereby pay my respects to all of our MPs, our House, and wish you a good day.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0101par0114	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, but we move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is appropriate. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th place, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs will continue their talks with the Plan and Budget Commission's report on the amendments to some Law and Law Act. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, Article 5 of Article 73 (r) was adopted under Article 1 of Article 5 of Article 5 (r) under Article 91, under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, there are two motions on Article 73 (r) subdivision number two, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 773th Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act (r) of the Court of Law and Law on Amendments was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Knower Lighting Lightning "2) The first joke (e) of Article 26 of Law 3224 has been changed in the following way. "e) to approve guide tariff proposals for examination and treatment fees within the operating area of the rooms," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the 73/r-2 Articles of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with the Bill of the Law and Laws to change the Law and Laws. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Kazim Kurt Lightshooter Free Special Kadir Gökmen Reminder Does the commission agree with the motion? (x) 478 S. The Numbered Basmaz 03/07/2013 was added to the 129th Union Charter.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0102par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0101par0155	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0103par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group over Article 73 (r) of the 478 Law Proposal. I salute your high council. We had another AKP classic in the middle of the night, witnessed a oppressive mentality, a new policy of digesting society, destroying democratic organisations. They shut down the villages and villages, removing their corporate personalities, turning the towns and villages into neighborhoods, and turning them into unauthorized authorities. They've taken over every public institution. They worked hard to take over civil society organizations, to make allies, and to weaken what they could not support. One of Turkey's largest NGOs, the Turkish Engineers and Architecture Chambers, cut off the powers of the Union last night, tied their hands. And now with this, the Turkish Dentists are cutting down their Union, disabling it. Adeta Gez Park is being rematched, the midnight coups are being carried out, MPs. Are you aware that the Court of Dentists of Law 3224 is entitled to determine the practice and treatment fees of the Union? This authority is being transformed into a guide, so it's only being transformed into a form of opinion. If I follow that, I'll be left to the Ministry's discretionary authority. However, the minimum cost of service is being determined in many areas, from tourist guidance fees to architecture fees, from legal fees to veterinary fees. In contrast, you are disposing of the authority of the Dentist Corps. It is very wrong to release the cost of oral and dental care, and to give the occupational organisation the authority to set a guidanceary recipe alone. The Constitution also violates the right to life and the right to health, the 17th and 56th Article, and, by the way, the Constitution is violated. Turkey currently has about 14,000 free dental clinics. Since there is no service available, these clinics remain abandoned. In contrast, the state is opening oral and dental centers, and there are no modern, healthy dentist services available. Remember, Mr. Prime Minister promised dentists that he would receive services from free clinics. The Union of Turkish Dentists also set a timer on its website to determine whether this promise was fulfilled and became a follower. It has been a thousand seven hundred and twenty-seven days since the prime minister's commitment to this day, and it has still not been kept. But, when we criticize you, our prime minister is being judged. Please let the Prime Minister keep his promise. Now, the intended arrangement has 2 negative results. One: the powers of an NGO are being issued in terms of the union and the room. The rooms are a public institutional organisation based on structures. In advanced democracies, these trade organisations are described as an opposition organisation and NGOs are expected to show reflexes. This is not about who is in power, these trade organisations continue to be critical even if the authorities change. Today they will criticize you, and tomorrow they will criticize another power. If the authorities have had enough of democracy, they should use these criticisms as a compass and use them to compensate for their shortcomings and to find the truth. If the authorities have not had their share of democracy, they try to weaken them, suppress them, promote them. That's why the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Union of Turkish Dentists, the attacks and pressures today, my friends. And that's what you want to bring in. The government almost wants to choose the building managers from its own followers and displays such an antidemocratic attitude. The second reason is the result for free dentists. It's a minimum... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0104par0170	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 773th Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act (r) of the Court of Law and Law on Amendments was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "2) The first joke (e) of Article 26 of Law 3224 has been changed in the following way. "e) to approve guide tariff proposals for examination and treatment fees within the operating area of the rooms," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0105par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0104par0180	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Günal is the MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0106par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, this bag of laws, indeed, has been violated. We said, "It's a hangar, it's still going back and forth." Unfortunately, our friends are saying something because we come in here and respond to bullying, just because it's a blind fight between us in a party struggle. I've just heard Mr. Koksal. I'm surprised. I mean, a friend of ours who's had a government experience, but I told Mr. Babacan here yesterday that he couldn't even answer. I asked him, "Who is the interest lobby?" The interest is falling. He says, "The interest is rising," and the Prime Minister is angry with them. The tabloids are getting angry, they're getting angry. Now the dollar is going up, and in return it's going to be out of the market, and you're going to have a tight money policy in exchange for that, and that doesn't raise interest? And I asked him, "Doesn't that raise interest?" And he didn't answer, but our friends are just saying something in the Taassup. Our ministers promise us... that for the past two days... my message has been filled, Minister, that the phone is constantly full of messages, delete them. Do you know who it's from, Minister? He's looking out. There were promises you made, and they say that the Minister of Agriculture has told us that all of these contracts will pass. He said, "No." The agricultural engineers, the technicians, the GTHB... so they've been sending messages to all of our friends for two days on our cell phones -- that you're members of the Plan and Budget Commission." They don't attract you, you don't say anything anyway. The Minister is here, and I asked the governor, he won't give it to me. I swear to God, I've got my phone in my pocket. I'll show you in a minute. I keep erasing it because it's filling up, our message box is filling up, and they have demands, and they say, "There's plenty of room for us here. There are 13 subsections in agricultural engineering. There's no fair trade. Now he's promised, but we're stuck. When this bag is here, let the Minister take over. The work of Allah is here, and the minister's sentry is here today. Because at least 8 or 10 spokesmen called me on the phone all over Turkey, and right now, tell all the members of the Commission, Mr. Secretary. They've sent me over and over and over and over with e-mail messages, Mr. Minister. Here we have requested a staff from the finances. You said, "Well," but here they say at least 5,000 agricultural engineers should be employed. I'm going We're waiting for 500 approvals. He said, "Mr. Minister, he didn't come out either." They say. Now, according to this, there's a downside. Sure, why do they say that, Minister? They say we've got it all figured out. According to your promise, some have set their wedding date, some have arranged their own holiday schedule, their own schedule, and the minister has promised us, he will do it. So they say, "Now, let him keep his promise, no matter how he persuades the Minister of Finance, let him remove the staff he has told us." Now, of course, I'm actually going to say a few more things about what just happened. When the Minister was here, I wanted to transfer them first. Dear friends, if you're taking the wrong policy, the result will come. There's something I've been saying over and over again: no need to look for interest lobbys outside, no need to look for anything... oh, if there's anything international, conspiracy, promises, you know it better, but unless you take the necessary precautions in the economy, we don't have a chance of staying alive. Over the years, if you count what's coming after you as your own success, you'll be like this when the wind starts blowing backwards. For him, it was the lobby of interest, or whatever it was. There's no need to say it. We said, "If there are measures to be taken, let's get them here." But what are we doing? Sir, there's an internal service law of armed forces, so let's get it out. What's the emergency? No. Is there a countermeasure to increase the income of the poor? No. Is there anything to fix the revenue distribution? No. Is there anything that can help reduce our import addiction? No. Cari, is there anything that can bring us down? No. So, the development plan that's going to include all of this, but only on the day when there's no TV... why? So why did we discuss the development plan on Monday? If this is how we're going to discuss this, if you're going to bring in a new law, why didn't we start with a working schedule? So, some of the things we just said, I said, I know why, because you're ashamed of the economy going. As much as you're yelling at us here, you feel the need to hide it. Otherwise, my fellow Commissioner, we're meeting 11 or 12 days here in a budget law. The budget is a year's practice, and the plan is a five-year development plan. We went through this without arguing with the citizen. So he says, let's get back to the real agenda, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0107par0192	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 73 (r) bendi (3) there are two motions, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for amendments to the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of Article 73 (r) of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and of the Charter Commission on Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) proposed that I am the subsidiary of the following Article (3) be changed in accordance with the Bill of the Law and shall be presented in accordance with the Constitution. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal ♪ You've got the Light of Knowledge ♪ ♪ You've got the arrow ♪ ♪ You've got the lightning ♪ Article 40 of the 3224 Law has been changed in the following way. Article 40- Room Management Boards send a guide plan to the Union's Central Governing Body each year in December to prepare a guide plan for the medical and medical fees of dentists. The Union's Central Governing Body approves guidance proposals by making changes that it sees are necessary or necessary and informs the Ministry of Health of these tariffs. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law Proposal and State Officials Act to change the provisions of some Laws and Laws and Laws Act 478 rankings that have been held, Bayızlik, Development, and Tourism Commission 73/r-3 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Kazim Kurt Hülya Trust Thrower Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0108par0215	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0107par0216	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0109par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 73 (r) of Bill 478. I salute lawmakers who do not declare war on NGOs, who do not want to impose on their professional organisations. My dear friends, let's take a look at what this stuff is doing, what it's bringing, and let's see how the AKP destroys the trade organizations, how it's become this spirit. This clause says to the Dentists' Association: "O dentists, you used to set minimum wage schedules. A tooth is drawn for how much, sir, here, a filling is made for how much, which you would have determined, in accordance with your own professional ethics. Now, you prepare a guide for me, and I'll do whatever I want. You're taking out the Turkish Dentists' Association one step at a time. And when you say that, you say it in such a way that I now refer to this language as "APP" or "AKP" or "AKP" language. On the one hand, you're saying that the Turkish Dentist Association should stay. On the other hand, you're saying that it should go away. Can we give you other examples? Of course we can. For example, we're doing corrections in AKP. You say, we're doing bans. You say, "We're the servants of the Middle East." You say, "We want to be the boss of the Middle East." You say, "I'm removing the visa from the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architects." You say, "You're destroying the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architects." You're bringing law into the Turkish Medical Corps for the benefit of the public, which means you're destroying the Turkish Medical Corps. And in this article, you have to give the dentist a guide instead of a price schedule. You're destroying the Turkish Dentist Association. So basically, you're destroying everything and everything that's against your view of the world. It's called the Terminator, nothing else. My dear friends, this course of action is destroying everyone who opposes you, who opposes you, who is both individuals and communities. You're not content with these remarks, you're not just using the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation, but you're clearly starting to abuse. What are you doing? You're arresting and arresting the Turkish Medical Association against you, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, the DİSK, the KESK, all its administrators, for all kinds of reasons. You say: "You are mine, or you are your land." This is not really the language of peace. You make those who disobey you vomit blood. And you say, "Sir, civil disobedience is the right." Brother, you have the right to civil disobedience in Egypt, and when civil disobedience is done in Turkey, you come fascistally, standing in front of these children, standing in front of these rooms. Now, you've even made it a crime to seek rights. Last night, at midnight, with an operation...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0110par0227	There's a coup in Egypt, a coup. There was a coup in Egypt.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0109par0228	You call it Darbe? You took a hit last night.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0111par0229	There's a coup in Congress?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0112par0230	There's a coup in Congress? The will of the House made that decision.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0109par0231	Last night, in the middle of the night, you did the coup under this great coven.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0112par0232	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0109par0233	Without shame, without boredom, you struck. You brought it, you imposed a clause on us, and you tried to destroy the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, but you will answer for it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0113par0234	Your history knows the blow.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0114par0235	Do you put money in the Medical Office for medical fees?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0109par0236	All social media and Turkey heard it immediately. All the rooms in Turkey, the Union of Turkish Engineer Architectures, got up in the middle of the night, opened a banner for you, said they weren't afraid. No one is afraid of you, but now you're afraid of your shadow.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0114par0238	Do you put money in the medical room? Are you investing in medical fees?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0115par0239	Please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0109par0240	You won't get anything by scaring all the rooms, anyone who opposes you. Pity, I feel sorry for you. You're a big party, you're running Turkey, look at what you've come to! You have become fearful; you are afraid of rooms; you are afraid of travel; you are afraid of everyone; but let me tell you something, you are right to be afraid.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0115par0242	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0116par0245	Mr. President, I want to fix something. I've got the transcripts. In the report, my... It's not marash, it's the screamer in the garage, it's the screamer in the garage. (x) The expression regarding this correction is found on page 447 (b.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0115par0247	We didn't promise there would be, Mr. Tallie, yes.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0116par0248	It's not about Marash. I want him to get better.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0115par0249	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0117par0250	Mr. Longhorn, please, can you correct the other statement you're using?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0116par0251	I fixed the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0117par0252	How are you going to correct the records, and how are you going to correct the one in the divine song?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0116par0253	I'll fix it, we'll fix it tomorrow between us.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0118par0259	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for amendments to the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of Article 73 (r) of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and of the Charter Commission on Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) proposed that I am the subsidiary of the following Article (3) be changed in accordance with the Bill of the Law and shall be presented in accordance with the Constitution. Article 40 of the 3224 Law has been changed in the following way. Each year, in December, the Chamber Governing Boards prepare a guide plan for the medical and medical fees of dentists and send them to the Union's Central Board of Directors. The Union's Central Governing Body approves guidance proposals by making changes that it sees are necessary or necessary and informs the Ministry of Health of these tariffs. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0119par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0118par0270	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0120par0274	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on Article 73 (r) of Law Proposal 478, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council. This motion is made to make a proposal for an arrangement with dentists and to make the material text in the proposal more meaningful. So, we think the expression here is more meaningful. In principle, we agree with the amendment to the proposed clause. I think it's a valid motion for the Council of Dentists to be authorized to provide guidance for the Central Governing Body and to approve these fees each year, then to report it to the Ministry of Health, and therefore to meet our motion. On this occasion, I'd like to share with the High Assembly the problems of a people who have been in serious trouble recently, knowing that our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is also sitting here on behalf of the government. Mr. Minister, right now -- as Mr. Antalya MP Mehmet Günal Bey has just stated -- you sent a visa from the Finance Ministry to get a visa from the Finance Ministry, but the Finance Ministry certainly didn't give us that application. The problem of employment of agricultural engineers, water products engineers and food engineers was left to us. Now, it's being applied to the Ministry of Agriculture, it's being written to the Ministry of Finance; it's being applied to the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance says: "There's no such application from the Ministry of Agriculture. There's about 6,000 spare staff in the area, but we can't give it a visa without a request." We need to solve this problem. The young people of this country, they finished these schools to support this country's agriculture. Therefore, we cannot possibly agree that their legitimate demands are lost between the two ministries. These two ministries, the ministries of the same cabinet, the ministers of the same party. Let's just say if there was a coalition or something, the parties didn't get along with each other, but now you're sitting in the office of two elected ministers from the same party. Which one of you is telling the truth or which one of you isn't? You need to figure this out, this problem needs to be solved. Another issue is that our farmers are currently unable to enter their homes because of their debt to the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops and because they cannot pay their dues and because they have failed to pay their dues. We need to solve this problem. If these people were unable to pay their debts in time because of the negative economic policies of your ministry and your government, then it is not only the farmers who have committed debt, but also the government's policies, as they have sometimes suffered in different parts of our country because of droughts and other disasters. I think this needs to be resolved, too. Again, as one of the ministers who does the 2002-2013 comparison, I'd like to say to you, please compare the amount of oaths taken in 2002 with the amount of one litre of milk and one liter of milk taken today. According to 2002, that ratio fell to one hundred and one-third, two-and-a-half. Now, you have to support these people like bait and so on. And you know as well as I do that the fuel supply used in agriculture is not going to solve the problem of agriculture, given by you, by your ministry, and by its symbolic support. Likewise, a farmer who could buy 1 litre of diesel in 2002 with 3-3.5 kilograms of wheat, if he was able to buy 1 litre of wheat today, there is a 100 per cent regression there. The position of solving these problems is your position. Just because I'm solving this problem in a part of this country doesn't mean it's solved. I say that Turkey is whole, that it can never be torn apart, and that the farmer everywhere is equal. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0121par0286	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 73 (s) has two motions on the bendi: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to change the amendments to Article 73 of the Law and Law Code of Laws (2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 73 (s) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Oktay Vural Ali Halaman "s" has been changed in the following way, along with Article 32/A of the Law, dated 8/1/1986 and the General Directorate of Meteorology 3254. Article 32/A is employed by the Central Office of the General Directorate, with the meteorological Expert and the Assistant Meteorological Expert to be employed in matters which are involved in the role of the General Directorate." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the 73/s Article of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with a draft draft draft of the Law and Code of State Act on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under which there are 478 lines of Law and Law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülyya Trustes Picks Out A Dumper Vacay Mustafa Sezgin Godkulu Free Special Sakina Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0122par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0121par0311	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0315	Dear President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. I mean, to be honest, we're all out of tune. I mean, we've had a lot of information before at the point of legislature, but this bill broke our memory. You put a bag on this House, you put a sack on it, you even put a sack on this nation. I mean, when we started, two years ago, there was the Secretary General of the House, a very respected lawyer, and at least read his book. Why don't you read it, saying, "How do you do the study of the law? " I'm serious about this. There's no way there's a bill like this. You put a sack over this House, and now we're discussing it. Sixteen law enforcement laws have been here during a year of life, but the rest is a bag of law, it can't be like that. On top of this House, you have no right to put such a sack on this Parliament, such a bag, I'll tell you first, as a lawyer. You don't have that right. You can't do that. Bring him in, bring him in like a man, let's not break this House, all together by opening every law, civil society... this Parliament has received a project from the European Union, received millions of dollars, and how will the civil society affect this legislative work? How will its employees go to Brussels and do so with the money of the European Union who went to Europe? But now this Parliament, with the money it has received from the European Union, how will the civil society contribute to that? Shame, shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0124par0319	Easy, easy.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0320	But that's what you're doing. Shame, shame, shame! Shame! Too bad about that money, too bad about those projects. Read it, look, read it. Proposal, suggestion, whatever, read them first. You can't account for the money he took from this House, you can't account for it. The rest is a story. Look, guys, you're all gonna read those transcripts, and you're gonna be embarrassed. You'll be ashamed of what you said.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0125par0322	Let's hear it and let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0323	You'll be ashamed at the point where this House doesn't do any legislature work. Look, a journalist came to Diyarbakir from September 12th asking if there was torture or not. No, there's nothing here, it's a lot of roses. Then he realized he was a journalist, you all know, you should know that he was a journalist who learned this story, you know what he said? It was my official opinion. Here you are, if you have a conscience, speaking to those without a conscience, saying only your official opinion, but these proceedings will judge all of you throughout history, all of you. Dear friends, the 5th person died today! One of you, look, we've never heard of an apology from one of you on this stand... 17 years old, 18 years old, 20 years old, 22 years old, 25 years old... not even on this Ramadan day, we haven't heard from one of you. Shame! Aren't they citizens of this republic? What did you do yesterday?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0126par0327	What did we do?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0328	The Prime Minister, on the one hand, calls his team the peace and resolution process, two hours and 20 minutes, and on the other hand, the biggest blow to TMMOB, who has given the most support for the process. Is that your idea of democracy? And now to the dentist's room... you're going to do it, and you're going to say, "I'm sorry," and you're going to say, "I'm sorry." Guys, that's not understanding. Democracy takes integrity, it takes brains, it takes courage, it takes courage. It takes courage, courage...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0127par0329	You don't have that either.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0330	He wants to stand behind her.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0127par0331	Are you behind him?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0332	Okay, you'll be meeting there for two hours and 20 minutes, but on the one hand, you'll come around a project, you'll do a last-minute coup here. Who are you going to do it to? You do it to TMMOB, you do it to democracy. Dear friends, once again, ten years ago, when I was president of the Diyarbakır Bar, I was teaching people to look for rights in that lawless environment. I was teaching him there, I was telling everyone, everyone, but now look at the Ankara Bar, the Istanbul Bar pages: What do you do when your home is searched? We now moved the same illegality to Ankara, İstanbul, and all of Turkey, instead of ending the law there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We moved the State of Emergency to all Turkey, where it was not declared. Is that it? No one knows when or who's gonna make the bust, no one knows. Do these look good on Parliament? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0128par0336	Yes, Mr. Godkulu, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0123par0337	Thank you, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0128par0339	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0129par0342	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0128par0343	I'll meet the roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Special, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Ayman Guler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Seçer, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yilmazoğlu, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Godkulu, Mr. Kuruturk, Mr. Güven. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law and Laws Act 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 73 (s) be changed in the following way. "s" has been changed in the following way, along with Article 32/A of the Law, dated 8/1/1986 and the General Directorate of Meteorology 3254. Article 32/A-General Department of Directorship employs meteorological Expert and meteorological Assistant Expert to be employed in matters involving the General Directorate's field of duty." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0130par0362	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0128par0363	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ali Halaman, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0131par0367	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 73 (s) of Law Proposal 478. I salute your high council. Of course, there's a paragraph in the article on meteorology, which means that meteorology is an expert, an expert assistant, is employed. There's no explanation beyond that. Now, the General Directorate of Meteorology is a very important institution in the life of the Turkish nation, in the life of our country. So in the past period, in the Ottoman era, he served as a observatory, the Kandilli Observatory. During the Republic, after the 1938s, the General Directorate of Meteorology was once a station. Their mission is to make weather forecasts, to present environmental conditions, to guide our daily lives, to guide our work life, and therefore to share important information in agricultural areas with the public. This institution, the institution, last year... we asked the Minister at times, the government, we're going to reduce this globalization or privatisation or employment, there's a lot of civil servants here... officers who work here are qualified from political knowledge, from law school, from academy, from business. Astronomy and meteorological engineers served in these institutions. Whatever happened last year, they shut down the rural agencies of these institutions, this government and these rural agencies, they put their property on the market. I am the MP of the Adana region, and there was a station, a branch manager, in Kozan, a very valuable service of meteorology. Thus, qualified friends who worked there complained, "What will we do, and what will we do? " These guys always had transfers, you retired some of them. So, when I'm destroying these rural agencies, I'm going to put them in a What kind of officer will you take to a place that doesn't exist, what specialists? Does it ever occur to your own friend, your own man, your own nephew... that I will take men, without knowing the circumstances, and place men? What conscience, what mercy will it take? To make the institutions of this state a business for yourself in the name of so many tenures, to recruit only your kin, your kin, without even consenting to the results of the KPSS exam, therefore, this country's traditional moral conscience does not fit. That's why we gave this motion. I wish you all to reconsider, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0132par0374	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Article 73 (sh) has two motions on it, and I read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law and Laws Act 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 73 (s) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal The third joke of Article 221 of Customs Law No. 27/10/1999 has been changed as follows. "The amount of hard work fees and the procedures for collecting from the interested are determined by the Council of Ministers. Excession and exports from those who are in positions of the Ministry of Customs and from those who are in positions of the State of Customs and from those who are in positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from those who are in charge of imports and exports, entry and exit operations, officers who conduct customs procedures in customs administrations of Customs Management III75 (exclusion of the Court of Law (II) to be taken into account, except in accordance with the procedures and elements of the customs of the Ministry of Customs and Trade (II) and in accordance with the duties of the State of State (JPreferences). The payment will be determined by the Minister of Customs and Trade, which will not exceed the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry, which will result in the officer's monthly coefficient on the number of indicators (36,500). Under this joke, the net amount of extra work for the staff each month cannot be less than the net amount of additional payment, as defined by the staff title or position title, under Article 9 of the 375th Amendment. Payments to Customs and Trade Ministry personnel are also covered by the amount transferred to Ankara Customs Accounting Unit under Article 9 of the Act 375. As of the end of the year, after payment under this clause, the remaining account will be kept, and the following will be registered in the budget by the end of January. If the payments to personnel under this clause exceed the amount transferred to the Ankara Customs Accounting Unit account, the difference will be covered by the Ministry of Finance from paying staff costs to the Ministry budget for this purpose," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that you be removed from the bill of Article 73/sh of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports with the Bill of Public Law, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, and the Commission's 73/sh of the Charter of the Charter of the Law and Laws. Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Sakine Self-Free Special The Moonbeater Selects the Mighty Skymen Reminder Vahaap Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0133par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0132par0396	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0134par0397	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0132par0398	Vahap chooses to make a statement on the motion, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0135par0400	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Now, this law-making technique really brings out hair, bag of law. As much as there are controversial issues in society, you're doing it by the bag of law, or if an institution is to be removed, you're using the bag as a hit man. Now, look, yesterday was the first day of Ramadan, and the speakers who came up here were as calm and obedient as possible, but I find it very difficult to understand you, so that there would be no unpleasantness or discontent on Ramadan day. You're definitely feeding off the tension. The law you brought in was spoken to the group's vice presidents before the motion was made, and it was said, "What if this doesn't come, so this bag is not in the law?" What if it doesn't happen? So then, in the next year of legislation, you bring this to the relevant commission, you make a change in the law, you make a change in its law. Now, even the deaf sultan in Egypt knows that you don't like TMMOB. Now, you will destroy these men. Your belief in democracy isn't really fundamental, it's supposed to be. Let it be, let it be institutions, dear, so what harm does it do you? Now, if it wasn't for TMMOB, you wouldn't be leaving the environment. At least thanks to them, your mistakes here are coming back from trial. You cut off the lifeblood of the men, and you plant fig trees in their furnaces. What kind of democracy is that? Now, how do we get by? You feed on tension, you do it consciously. When things calm down, you throw something at them. We've criticised before. Look, it's a little quiet with the Ramadan. The Prime Minister has stopped the meetings, stopped the meetings, the community is calm. You kept talking about a mosque for a month, you carried out an attack on a headscarf lady for a month.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0136par0406	That's not to belittled.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0137par0407	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0135par0408	Mr. Prime Minister, you've had a drink, you've had a drink, you haven't had your speed, they've invaded mosques. The citizens there are not crusaders, they are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. You can't go that far on society, you can't get so nervous. I mean, can you tell me what that meant?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0136par0409	Easy, easy.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0135par0410	Okay, close the TMMOB, close the bars. You've already beaten lawyers with clubs and slaps at the Istanbul courthouse after this Trip protest.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0138par0411	Do lawyers pay the bar for the case they took?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0135par0412	And shut down political parties. Don't leave any agency that gives you a counter-controversial opinion. Now, my dear friends, the Minister of Agriculture was just here. My predecessors also expressed the problems of agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers. I wish he were here. I'd like to say a few words to my colleagues, but the Minister of Agriculture has probably understood what the other speakers have said. I would also like to send a message through the Development Minister: Our Development Minister knows that Turkey is an agricultural society, that eight per cent of the illegitimate national estate is because of agriculture, that its share in employment is important, that one part of every three citizens is living from the agricultural sector, that Turkey knows that there are fertile, fixed lands, that Turkey is more than 60 billion dollars in agricultural non-majority. Therefore, he knows that agriculture is important in development. But that development doesn't go to hell; it happens in the light of science, in the light of technique. Well, you didn't quit science, you didn't quit technique. Look, there's thousands of agricultural engineers, over 30 percent agricultural faculty. Thousands of food engineers, agricultural engineers, water products engineers graduate from these schools. These kids are depressed, these kids are having a psychotic break. I'm tired of erasing messages. My message box is full of messages from these kids all the time. Either shut down these schools, end this persecution, or cast for these children. There's an opening at the Ministry. Turkey needs agricultural production, it needs engineers, it needs technicians. Open the mouth of the pouch. These are the citizens of this country. You spend billions of dollars on unrelated jobs, useless jobs, money. Every time you stand on the stand, every platform, you brag about the economy of Turkey as the largest economy of $800 billion and 16. For the sake of God, let us give these children an opportunity for the day of triumph. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0139par0417	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law and Laws Act 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 73 (s) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends The third joke of Article 221 of Customs Law No. 4458, dated 27/10/999, has been changed as follows. The amount of hard work fees and the costs for collecting from interested persons are determined by the Council of Ministers. Excession and exports from those who are in positions of the Ministry of Customs and from those who are in positions of the State of Customs and from those who are in positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from those who are in charge of imports and exports, entry and exit operations, officers who conduct customs procedures in customs administrations of Customs Management III75 (exclusion of the Court of Law (II) to be taken into account, except in accordance with the procedures and elements of the customs of the Ministry of Customs and Trade (II) and in accordance with the duties of the State of State (JPreferences). The payment will be determined by the Minister of Customs and Trade, which will not exceed the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry, which will result in the officer's monthly coefficient on the number of indicators (36,500). Under this joke, the net amount of extra work for the staff each month cannot be less than the net amount of additional payment, as defined by the staff title or position title, under Article 9 of the 375th Amendment. Payments to Customs and Trade Ministry personnel are also covered by the amount transferred to Ankara Customs Accounting Unit under Article 9 of the Act 375. As of the end of the year, after payment under this clause, the remaining account will be kept, and the following will be registered in the budget by the end of January. If the payments to personnel under this clause exceed the amount transferred to the Ankara Customs Accounting Unit account, the difference will be covered by the Ministry of Finance from paying staff costs to the Ministry budget for this purpose. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0140par0426	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0139par0427	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0141par0428	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0139par0429	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0142par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. Dear friends, I'm afraid we continue with such a strange law. Yeah, weirdo's running nice, and I don't talk any harder because it's Ramadan day, so you're saying, "Oh, my God." We said, "It's turned into a tavern." We said, "It's passed." We said, "That's why it's weird." That's all there is to it. In this article, it will be taken from the citizen, so the overtime fee from the citizen who does the customs... I wonder, if we go to the hospital in the afternoon or when we go to PTT, is there an extra charge? When you get another community service, if you leave after 5:30, I wonder if there's an extra raise on those fees? Let's get paid for our work, good. So, what you do in customs, on the other hand, we've said it over and over again, there's been a lot of talk about smuggling customs. Just three or four days ago, a congressman said something on TV that would implicate the ruling group. I'm still waiting for an explanation from somewhere or something clear. Dear friends, the Minister of the Plan and Budget Commission has shown our fellow Commissioners, Mr. Akçay, the cigarettes sold in Kızılay Square in the heart of Ankara. Now, what I would like to do here is, what has been fought with these things, if we can't find a law clause, if we can't find a technical flaw, let's complete them, if there's a lack of staff, let's complete them. What we can't do here in accordance with the law, we're putting the law back in order to get around the court. These are not pleasant things, dear friends. Speaking of smuggling, remember, the Prime Minister made important statements in 2007. In his own words, he told many countries that letters were written about it and that there were answers from 31 countries. According to the records of these countries, roughly 28 billion, 30 billion imports were made, but according to official records, there was a 9.3 billion fuel record that did not find 10 billion. I'm still curious. We've asked the Minister of Customs and Trade, at least five times here at the Commission, and we've asked the Minister of Energy: What did you do about it? Will you really keep us informed until today? We asked you guys a written question. If the questions we're asking at the Plan and Budget Commission are not answered here, then they come to us in writing, but in any of these cases, what is being done about smuggling... we're saying at least stand by the Prime Minister's word, he's determined there's been smuggling there. What was done about it, who came, what firms were investigated? We say, "Unfortunately, there is nothing about it." There's customs smuggling, there's fuel smuggling, and instead of talking about it, Mr. Koksal has been so general manager, I'd like him to tell us about it. Thanks to him, he tried to give us information about the economy. In conspiracies, sir, this interest comes from the lobby, and we paid the debts, he said to the IMF. Please stop this, people are laughing at this now. So I've told the IMF the debt over and over again, and once again, because you use it often, all the MPs use it: you took 10 billion dollars in May 2005, one. You paid the IMF, where are the loans from the World Bank? Do you look at the bottom number of debts? There is a clause called debt to international institutions. So, now, you're paying a dollar out of this pocket and you're borrowing $10 out of your other pocket, and then you're belly-deep because I owe you $1. Look, we told you that the private sector's debt has increased in total, 100 billion short-term. If the wolf plays a little, the private sector will be troubled when the risk happens. So if he borrows money from 1.80, he'll have to take it to 1.95-2. If he cashes it, he'll have to pay for it. 15 to 20 percent of men are at risk when he gets that dollar. Okay, you didn't get bailed out. The public's gone up to 150, not long ago. You said -- and that's very -- well, who's going to pay off the private sector's debt? Sir, it's not in the real sector, it's in the banks. Who do the banks pay? The bank doesn't keep the loan empty in its safe, which, if it's profitable, it gives it to the Federal Reserve, or to the Treasury, or to the private sector. Why would the bank take out a loan if it couldn't profit from it? You know, of the top 10 companies, the highest taxpayers, eight are banks, and half are public banks. So, please, come, let's build, not just with the costs of customs, not with the money, but also with the work to do.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit03spe0143par0440	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0143par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 136th Union. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Chapter 73 of the proposal (v) bendi (1) no. There are three motions on the bottom, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and introduce the addition of the declaration of biology, social sciences, science to be added after the article 46th (a) of Turkey's Statistical Law (a) which is intended to be replaced with its v-fiction. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) and the subsidiary of the Constitutional Act on the Amendment of Some Laws and Laws under which I proposed and proposed the subsidiary of the following Article (1). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Oktay Vural Emin Haluk Ayhan "1) The first joke (a) of Article 46 of Article 5429 of Turkey's Statistical Law, dated 10/11/2005, has been changed in the following way. "a) Graduating from law, political information, economics, business, economics and administrative sciences, engineering and communication schools and statistics, physics, mathematics, sociology, psychology departments or higher education institutions adopted by the institute of higher education for at least four years," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law Proposal and State Officials Act to change the provisions of some Laws and Laws and Laws Act 478 rankings that have been held, Publicity, Development, and Tourism Commission 73/v-1 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Free Light Thrower Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0144par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0143par0031	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0145par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0143par0033	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, Turkey took part in peaceful acts that set an example for both Turkey and the world earlier last month. I'm not going to tell you what these actions are for, how they're done. However, the ruling party and its supporters have been using the media for days, trying to present events as a different, violent, outside-organised event, and doing so well, and have been able to create a different perception of what has happened in the face of these events since the AKP was formed. He did it all the time, starting in 2002; he did it in our country and in Europe, in the world. Let's remember, in September 2010, those who were brought to our country and told us that democracy would come with a referendum, even to the people who had written great books... in the referendum, so that democracy would come to the country, yes, so that we could deal with the blow, but the voters, the ones who gave yes, did not, but the ones who said yes after what happened today. Not yet, but Hayko Baghdad, the inventor of the word "yes," is protesting fascism, which the AKP has implemented in the squares today. We're going through the same thing again these days. You're trying to make the world's most peaceful acts seem false, violent. Dear lawmakers, there has not been a single theft of these actions, nor has there been a pickpocketing incident everywhere there was a crowd.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0147par0040	There was no throwing stones at the police.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0041	Every New Year's Eve, there were no harassment incidents.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0147par0042	The glass frame didn't break.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0043	Even after a natural disaster like the earthquake, there were no embarrassing looting incidents. There was no violence. This did not happen there, but there were some things. There was solidarity in the division, tolerance for different ideas and preferences...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0148par0044	What happened to 150 million?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0147par0045	Easy, easy...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0046	...no ethnic origins, sects, or gender discriminations that the chief had often done. There was the brotherhood of the peoples, where there was equality, where there was peace that should be an example for all Turkey, especially the Parliament, and it should set an example for you, and there was no violence.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0147par0048	Agha, do you believe all this?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0049	But when the Prime Minister raised his voice...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0149par0050	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0051	...then Turkey has increased blood pressure. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, starting from the beginning, when the police interfered, it happened. In the days of the festivities, when humor reached its highest level, the police's intervention at a rate that we may have never experienced before caused nearly 10,000 people to be injured, 12 people to be blind, and 5 people to death. The events were busy in Ankara and Istanbul. Have you considered why we saw some negative examples in Istanbul and Ankara alone? Because the police only interfered in Ankara, Istanbul. (AK PARTY) There have been no incidents in Malatya, Smyrna, other provinces where police have not interfered. Look, I didn't see a single incident the first night of the incident, the morning of the night when the tents were burned by you, and the second day of the division. We lived there, we were there. When the Prime Minister gave the order, when you gave the order, from that moment on, the windows broke, unfortunately, people were attacked. Dear friends, you've always blamed the opposition. In this country, there's only one reason why both war and right violations, machete democracy, poverty, eight lawmakers, 70 journalists, thousands of students, hundreds of unionists and bars are in prison, which is the opposition.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0150par0055	You just can't.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0146par0056	Instead of understanding people, power blames everyone and tries to silence them. It started with actions, gas was attacked on youth as we had never experienced before, toxic chemical waters were sprayed on people with TOMA, and the bans were imposed on people so that Turkey and the world would not see the horrors. In any country, the famous TV stations didn't see the events that needed to be broadcast live, and those who saw them tried to shut down as they did in the fascist regimes. Public TV is being punished. He's Public TV, which isn't like your supporting channels. They tried to preach to us day and night the violence that had happened, without expecting anything, without being paid. Life TV, Cem TV silenced, wanted to be silenced. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The columnists were laid off. Businessmen, institutions, media involved in the action have been targeted. Dear MPs, dear friends, these events mean only one thing. No matter how long you hide it, it only means one form of expression; it's fascism, fascism, fascism.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0151par0061	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0152par0062	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit04spe0151par0063	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 136th Union. There was not enough decision to vote on Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and his friends' motion on the number (1) subcommittee of Article 73 (v) of Law Proposal 478. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) and the subsidiary of the Constitutional Act on the Amendment of Some Laws and Laws under which I proposed and proposed the subsidiary of the following Article (1). "1) The first joke (a) of Article 46 of Article 5429 of Turkey's Statistical Law, dated 10/11/2005, has been changed in the following way. "a) Graduating from law, political information, economics, business, economics and administrative sciences, engineering and communication schools and statistics, physics, mathematics, sociology, psychology departments or higher education institutions adopted by the institute of higher education for at least four years," Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0153par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0151par0014	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0154par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0151par0016	Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken our pledge on the proposal for Article 73 (v) of Proposition 478, which is being discussed on subcontracted number (1). I salute the grand jury. Our motion is to correct. The subroutine is related to the Turkish Statistical Agency's law, its personnel. It's being expressed in the new presidential section. It's about correcting the wrong you've done, and it's about the provisions that the Constitutional Court has cancelled. Now, there is a rapid increase in laws that do not have the minimum needs or qualities of law technique in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, because of the AKP. What the blueprints are, what it is, what it's supposed to be, what it's bringing, what it's taking, nothing, no reason, nowhere. Now, Mr. Secretary, you've dealt with planning, and now you're in charge of the Ministry of Development; do you have any knowledge of the economic ramifications of this bill? I asked the friends in Plan Budget, there's no such thing. Do you know -- has this been passed by the government -- or is there a minister from the government who knows, for God's sake, what you're bringing in, or what you're bringing in? None of you know anything. He brings whatever he needs as an individual, puts it here, goes to do it. There's no way that's happening. These are one of the plans that comes in, but it's a terrible incompetence, a terrible incompetence, that you're leaving at the end of the year. You're saying that you have 50% vote support behind you, that you're 326 MPs in Parliament, but you're incapable of running the country. Now...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0156par0024	Oh, come on. Holy shit.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0025	If you know, come and talk here. If you know, come and talk. You knew, why didn't you? Why didn't you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0157par0026	It's not conjecture, it's...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0027	Does Mr. President know?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0158par0028	He didn't know. Mr. Bekir?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0029	Come on, I'll take my turn.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0159par0031	Please, Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0032	Now, I've never seen a government that's so incompetent, incompetent, with so much parliamentary support behind it, that can't pull it off. There's no more formless words here than to link the delay of this law to the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0160par0033	Ignorance, ignorance. He's not shapeless, he's ignorant.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0034	You brought them, you made them, you ruled the country well, you made a law according to the Constitution, and what did we say? You brought the one which was not in accordance with the Constitution. I'm asking Mr. Secretary, do you know what the plus or minus is? If he knows, let him tell you, the cost of this is this. We've discussed it in the Council of Ministers. You'll talk a lot out of it. It's not gonna work. It's not gonna work. There are not only you, but many AKP MP friends; you're harassing them, it doesn't suit you. We say we know here. Mr. Bozdağ, do you know the cost of this? What does this bill bring and take? Now, for what we're saying, look, I was going to talk in three terms, I talked in three, we've been here for three days. Three days... one item, yesterday, I think, took three or four hours. How can you be so clumsy and so ignorant? Don't you have any legal advisors, no advisors, and you don't know how to do that? Is that even possible? You've saved up so many problems. How many items were there? Over 160, when you look down. How did you manage to save so many problems? How did you know about that?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0161par0037	Talk about the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0155par0038	Come here, talk, I'll give you my turn.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0162par0039	Congressmans, please... That's not true, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0163par0041	Talk about the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0162par0042	Mr. Can, what you're doing is not right, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0164par0043	What a incompetent government we're facing! You can't just talk about it and bring it to mouthwash like this. They give you a speech in the evening and you read it in the morning, you know? Do you remember? It's here, too, in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0165par0044	What's it to you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0164par0045	I'm just saying you're incompetent.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0166par0046	Mr. Ayhan, please, Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0164par0047	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0166par0049	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and introduce the addition of the declaration of biology, social sciences, science to be added after the article 46th (a) of Turkey's Statistical Law (a) which is intended to be replaced with its v-fiction. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0167par0055	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0166par0056	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0168par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0166par0058	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0169par0059	Dear lawmakers, here yesterday we talked to Mr. Hamzacebi CHP, MHP. We tried to convince Mr. Minister Bayraktar to withdraw his last-minute motion. We worked together on the commission. We said it wasn't true, that there was a very serious error in an incident that was brought in at the last minute, in a case of substance abuse, aimed at a large community like the Turkish Chamber of Architecture Engineers. However, we found that there was something done on purpose, not wrong. Because he was brought in persistently. That's not the right approach, fellas. Time will tell if that's not the right approach. Yes, philosophers argue among themselves in a very interesting way. Some philosophers say: "There is good and evil in morality; there is beauty in aesthetics; there is beauty and ugliness in the economy; there is profit and harm in politics; and the basic measure for politics is friend and foe, good and good and useful. Now, after all these years of power from the EC PARTI government, Turkey has turned the Medical Corps against him as an enemy while doing health reform. Again, in any other field, when he doesn't think of the NGO as himself, like the Turkish Architect Engineer Rooms, which they call Travel Park, I just don't see it as Travel Park. To be perfectly clear, the basic condition of the removal of visa authority here is, look, what did Mr. Bayraktar say? It's obvious, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Bayraktar, that the building to be destroyed by urban transformation is 700 billion liras per dwelling -- from two years to twenty years -- from one hundred thousand dollars each. Friends, in fact, as a matter of fact, this is the source of this motion. Look, it's a dollar and a euro and a dollar; it's a runt, a financial resource, exactly 1 trillion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0170par0064	New money or old money?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0169par0065	Not bad money, huh, fellas? That's enough until 2023. So you open your wallets, you make a dollar, you make a euro, you make a eye for a dollar. All together, right? Dollars, euros, and lira.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0171par0066	You're prepared.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0169par0067	There's no bid anyway. E, the control of TMMOB has been lifted, and his visa has been lifted. There are 300,000 construction contractors, and we have more construction contractors than the entire European Union combined. E, you will destroy Istanbul, İzmir, Ankara, and everywhere under the name of the local transformation. The project, the plan, the city, ecology, history, culture; there's no need for all this. So, who's gonna hire you guys? Can you tell me who'll hire you? This has a more interesting philosophical name. There are teachers among you -- academic -- they say that in the philosophy of power, it's the rule subject of Ontology. It is also called cognitively (egology) disease. "Egology" has no place in democracy because democracy recognises opposition, multicultural civil society and arguments to strengthen civil society. In our Parliament, why we are civil society in the Civil Code and in other matters, such as TMMOB, institutions such as the Association of Bars, the Association of Medicines, be advised, are institutions that work in public interest and have a public interest. Now, when you take them all out, sooner or later, you'll realize you didn't win a victory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's an inspection of everything, folks. But before you vote, take another look at the conscience, the bag, and the wallet.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0172par0071	Yes, thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0169par0072	I'm leaving you with a conscience and a wallet. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0172par0075	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0173par0078	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0172par0079	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Special, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Celebi, Mr. Şelebi, Mr. Şeşer, Mr. Develi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Young, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Earth, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Topal, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Logoglu. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 73 (v) has three motions in the subarm (2): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "on the president's proposal" to be added after the declaration "invoices" in Article 1 of Article 56 of Turkey's Statistical Law, which is intended to be replaced with the v-Ficture of Article 5429. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Secret Abdullah Levent corporate Nazmi Gür Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the 778th Amendment of the Law and Budget Commission Reports 73/v-2 from the bill with the Bill of the Law and Law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Free Light Thrower Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Oktay Vural Emin Haluk Ayhan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0174par0115	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0172par0116	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0175par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0172par0118	Free Special, Manisa MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0176par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First, I'd like to draw the attention of the House to something that I consider very important to begin with. Eight students arrested in the travel incidents were put in Metris Prison yesterday. Despite legislation and the integrity of the implementation of similar crimes, similar indictments in the same ward, each was distributed into a separate ward. The information given today by their lawyers and their families is that they were hit by people from different political views in the wards where they went, and they were psychologically oppressed and tortured. This is an app we came across in Posant Prison, underlined. Prison administration -- that Posanti Prison, you know, it was closed three days after the CHP report -- took, look, these are good kids, these are the good kids, they threw stones, I entrust them to you. From behind came that scene that made us all feel guilty. Now, in Metris, these eight young children have been separated into eight separate wards and are seen to be entrusted to someone. I would like to call on Mr. Minister of Justice, the Bureau of Justice, the Metris Prison administration and the responsible prison prosecutor, and stress that they must intervene in this matter immediately.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0177par0122	We'll go, too.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0176par0123	Otherwise, it would have turned into the revenge of Mussolini's state, just as it did in Posant. I'd like to bring this to the attention of the High Council. Last night, after we passed the TMMOB Act, which we described as a civil coup, a major coup against democracy, a coup against civil society, or rather, just before we passed, Mr. Elitaş, the Deputy President of the Defense Group of the AKP, used these sentences. He said: "As far as we know, there are about 300,000 architects and engineers. This arrangement we've brought, 309,000 architects, at least 300,000 of the engineer's interests are of great interest. It is a provision for them. Maybe 24 or 25 of the executives in the room are uncomfortable. (Applause from AKP rows) Now, friends, in any criticism of power, he would not vote for us if you were right, if the citizen complained about us. You say, that's your defense. None of these rooms pass from father to son, each of these rooms chooses by judge, and at the end of that election, their administration comes. If, as you say, 300,000 engineers, architects, were disturbed by the practices of these rooms, they wouldn't be elected in the election, would they, in your defense, today.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0178par0127	What logic!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0176par0128	Against that defense, you're doing something with one night's blow, as if the rooms were run by a subsidiary, they persecuted their members, and you're defending yourself as if you were saving them from it. It has nothing to do with democracy from a distance. Defending this practice is equivalent to defending the coup against the president elected in Egypt.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0178par0130	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0179par0131	You mean Mursi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0176par0132	What I want to make very clear is that to applaud Mr. Elitaş, tomorrow, there is the benefit of labor workers to prevent trade unions from paying off workers' wages, to prevent union fees that have been cut off from their union members. Tomorrow, we're doing the pharmacists a favor of the Turkish Medical Association, the pharmacists, the Dentists' Association. However, not all academic rooms, vocational rooms, unions, and members of the community view the fee as a monetary component, nor do consciously conscious members see it that way. The meaning of the payday there is belonging.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0178par0133	It's not dues. They get paid for every project.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0176par0134	One of the challenging, reminders of your approach to collecting dues is the founding factor between the member and his room, some of the services or approvals he has given to the member of that room. The same kind of contracts sold by the pharmacists' office, the base price lists set by dentists, and -- as I've just tried to put it -- engineers, like architects' approval money. Defending this practice is defending the coup. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0180par0138	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0181par0139	But...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0180par0140	Okay, okay, sorry. No, no...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0182par0141	Thank you. It's Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who wants a word on the same motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0183par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, it is the number 478 that is being discussed on Article 73 of Proposition (v) bendin (2). I'm going to talk about our motion on the subdivision, and I've been promised that. I salute the High Council. And I want support for our motion. No one else is the reason the laws that have been enforced are in this state. Unfortunately -- as I just said in my speech -- there's an incompetent, incompetent, timeless AKP government that's always late. Minister, we worked in the same administration as you. I just said, "What's the yield of this offer?" We can also say the technical meaning, but even if the citizen would understand, perhaps the AKP would need friends. At least what I expected, Mr. Haluk, is that there is a side to the bill. The proposal came from friends, we don't know much about it, but according to the bill, this is what it would cost. A note, I expected an explanation, at least. It's my right as a fellow worker and my right as a congressman. But you don't even need that. You're trying to make something random, where there's everything, and it's all filled up. Really, I was thinking about what your AKP MP friends here had in common, how much they had in the budget, or how much they had in the way of spending, what they had in terms of income, what they were taking, basically, but I'm really sorry. I'm not saying this, you know, to offend you, to put you in trouble, that's the way it's supposed to be. According to Article 5018, it is necessary, and you should have done so, but you insist against doing so, preventing you from giving information to this great assembly. This had to happen. The regulatory effect analysis of the economic and social impacts of the administration's regulatory activities has been in many countries in recent years, you know, that are really systematic and that the data that will come out as a result of this study should be passed on to the decision-makers. In the same way, regulatory analysis of drafts in law and law enforcement was mandatory in the drafting of the drafts of regulations and regulations published in the Official Gazette in 2006. In any case, the regulations you've issued regarding the personnel, the authority you've received, the ordinance of the law, were not the right thing to do. Look, I told you yesterday, and I told you last time -- he ate the head of the Plan and Budget Commission. In the end, the AKP has tried to obtain a power that you have no right to in accordance with the Constitution. So, there's a problem there. Now, you need to bring in the 20-year-old actuary balance, especially on social security issues. When I say it here, it's important that friends don't talk and stuff, it's important that they absorb it. In fact, when I get up here, I'm not just saying something random to say, but to demand, to express what I know. Otherwise, there's no point in saying things here, shouting out loud that you know what you don't know, that you don't know. But, at least -- I've just expressed -- I'd expect you to say that the economic and financial aspects of this bill include these. In fact, do you or do you not want to tell me or do you not have information based on detail? Otherwise, we picked them all up randomly, we put them in a bag, it was a little tight, there were some things we had to do legally, the Constitutional Court got us in trouble, so let's get them out of here, no matter what, blessed day, let's keep all these people here, unnecessary, unnecessary... you have to express that, that's your debt. This is the extent of Muslim persecution. But I'm not really saying this to offend or harass you in any other way, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, the MPs in this parliament, the AKP MP friends, are expecting you to do so. I'd like to support our motion, pay all your respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0184par0152	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0185par0153	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0186par0154	What did you promise, Mr. President? On what terms did you promise?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0185par0155	Our esteemed congressman is, of course, right in the general sense. The regulations to be made...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0186par0156	What did you promise by?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0187par0157	Listen, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0186par0158	Honey, tell me!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0187par0159	He wanted to make a statement, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0186par0160	What explanation? He can explain when he's in the motion, but he can't now, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0188par0161	The Minister can always take words.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0187par0162	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0186par0163	Read this Civil Code properly!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0189par0164	Mr. President, you've given your word according to 60.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0190par0165	One of our valued deputies has just stated that it would be rude of me not to answer specifically, so I made a promise, and I'll try to explain in a brief way.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0186par0166	He can't explain it now, he can explain it when he says if he's in the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0190par0167	Of course, there are a lot of clauses here: some of which may have financial consequences, some of which may not have very much financial consequences, some of which are drafting -- as you said earlier -- issues that have come to the agenda of the Commission or the General Assembly. On principle, of course, I agree with our congressman. So, the ideal impact assessment in all of the arrangements is to take its revenues in a really detailed way, both in terms of budget and economic terms.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0191par0169	Not the legal one, Mr. Secretary, the legal one, the legal one.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0190par0170	However, in many regulations, we may not be able to do so, perhaps, to satisfy all of us fully. I think it's a matter of developing a bit of administrative capacity and improving processes. Of course, there's no disability here, at least as of right now, about their contract being put into office. However, there are financial consequences, of course, for our chiefs, such as payment arrangements for temporary village rangers. If you'll excuse me, our Finance Ministry, of course, will provide you with an information note, as our ministry, which has been following the process since the Commission's reform, and the account, and the ministry that has made the book, hopefully. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0192par0173	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0193par0175	We have a motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0194par0176	The opposition is in the majority, Your Honor, count.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0192par0177	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0194par0178	Guys, put your hands up. We're more than them.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0195par0179	Did you count those who agreed?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0192par0180	First, those in favor, if that's the case...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0196par0182	Sustained.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0192par0183	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0197par0184	Sustained.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0198par0185	It's been accepted! There's eyes, there's trace.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0192par0186	The motions are accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0199par0188	Mr. President, we had a deal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit05spe0192par0189	Congressmans, the item is thus disinherited from the bill. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0192par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 136th Union. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Idır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends' motions have been removed from the script, since Article 73 (v) subdivision (2) has been removed from the text with the acceptance of the same proposals. Article 73 (y) has three motions on it, and I read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. The "future rights are paid under the right to peace" of Article 3 of Article 5544 of the Law for Occupational Qualification, which is intended to be replaced by the y-minus. We offer and offer to change it into form. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tuzel Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Make Changes in Decisions, and I propose that Article 73 of the Charter of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following manner, and shall be proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal "y) The third joke of Article 25 of Article No. 544, dated 21/9/2006, has been changed as follows. "The head and members of the sector committee, which does not have public duties, are paid for the amount of peace of mind, which will be multiplied by the official monthly coefficient of the number of indicators per each meeting (300), not more than six per year." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the adoption of the 73/y Articles of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports under the Law and Government Officers Act, with the Bill of the Law and Law on Changes in Decisions. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Free Light Thrower Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Kemal Milldererelı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0200par0031	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0192par0032	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0201par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0192par0034	Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP, who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 73 of Law Bill 478. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, today at around 1:50 p.m. on July 10th, the rooms that constitute the Union of Turkish Architect Engineers were stripped of visas and approval for study and projects. The rooms are being weakened, neutralized, and they want to be silenced. Look, lawmakers, what's engineering? Engineering, science, and mathematical principles are the art of using experience, decision and common ideas to produce useful products for human beings. Engineering is creativity. Engineering is the process of producing the technical product and system needed to meet a specific need. Engineering is productivity. Dear lawmakers, we serve in a broad, broad, high-rise General Assembly. I'd like to ask, does anyone here know the height of this General Assembly?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0203par0040	We don't know, do you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0041	Does anyone know how high it is?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0204par0042	Do you know how many light bulbs there are here, do you know how many lamps there are?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0043	I know. Does anyone know how wide it is? I'll tell you the height, let me tell you something: 14 meters 20 centimeters. Does anyone know this opening? Does anyone know about the ceiling opening?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0205par0046	Do you know how many lamps, how many light bulbs are on your head?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0047	Thirty-four meters, fellas. Ma'am, these are the works of engineering. For you to understand, with these numbers, I want to tell you about this place where we live together. Again, as Edirne MP, I'd like to tell you the width of the Selimiye Dome: 31 meters and 25 centimeters. And its height is 43 meters and 25 centimeters. Its minerals are 3.8 meters wide and its height is 70.1 meters high. Who built the magnificent roof of this coven, dear friends? Engineers and architects did it. Who builds roads, bridges, power plants, mines, oils? Engineers.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0206par0051	So We saved them from their spending.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0052	Who makes the satellite, the drone, the rockets? Engineers. Engineers who do all this work, by choosing their own managers in their vocational rooms, control their professional development, professional ethics through these rooms, providing public service with their own internal dynamics.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0206par0053	Yeah, well, don't make them do it, don't make them forgive.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0054	Yeah, yeah, I'll say that, too. Dear friends, look, there are 24 rooms under the Turkish Chamber of Architecture Engineers. They don't all do it with money, Hajji. You say...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0207par0056	Teacher, they say thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0057	Listen, for God's sake! They don't do it with money. My Mining Engineers Room doesn't charge for visas.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0207par0060	All the engineers are looking for us, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0061	No.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0208par0062	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0063	Now, precious...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0209par0064	Everyone's on the phone, thanking me.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0065	No, no. Look, Turkey belongs to the Chamber of Architecture Engineers...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0210par0067	Close the rooms.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0202par0068	...450,000 engineers, friends, 450,000 engineers. Now, instead of supporting these rooms... we need to take care of and support the rooms of our country's grown minds. The participation and contribution of civil society, the most fundamental element of their democracy, depends on the healthy development of such organisations. We have to understand that, we have to understand that. This great House must share its responsibility to correct this error. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0211par0071	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Make Changes in Decisions, and I propose that Article 73 of the Charter of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following manner, and shall be proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı (Conya) and Friends "y) The third joke of Article 25 of Article No. 544, dated 21/9/2006, has been changed as follows. "The head and members of the sector committee, which does not have public duties, are paid for the amount of peace of mind, which will be multiplied by the official monthly coefficient of the number of indicators per each meeting (300), not more than six per year." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0212par0080	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0211par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0213par0082	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0211par0083	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0214par0085	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 73 (y) of Law Proposal 478 that we are discussing. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing a amendment to the Law on Occupational Qualification No. 5544. This law was passed on 21/9/2006, so it was issued during the AKP administrations. This law was then adopted by a amendment to Article 43 of Article 43 of Code No. 665, dated 11/10/2011. As with many other articles, the amendment was extradited by the Constitutional Court, and today it was brought back to the agenda of the Supreme Assembly, and now the Justice and Development Party will be passed again with the votes of lawmakers. What's the content of the law? It regulates financial rights to the organs of the institution of professional competence. I'm reading to you now that the chairman and his members of the Board of Directors will be granted a measure of peace -- not more than four times a year -- that is, 48 times a year -- for each meeting, the number of indicators (2000) to those who have no public service, and the number of indicators (300000) to those who do not have public service will be paid by the officer's monthly coefficient. The government has not made any changes here, based on the decree of this law. (3) The change in the third joke pays the president and members of the sector committee, which does not have a public mandate, not more than four per year -- no more than four per year -- to the extent that the number of indicators (2000) will be multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient, he says. The Constitutional Court must have sent this back on the grounds that there was a discrepancy in it. Now, in response to this attitude from the Constitutional Court, the government, as we say, you don't understand the law, you don't know what it means to make the law, we know better than you because we have 326 votes behind us. Our motion is to raise the 2000 indicators to 3,000, so at least it has a purpose to close the gap a little financially among its own organs. So we think the motion is reasonable. If only we had been able to correct them by clearing the wrongs made by the government's esteemed ministers in this bag of legislation, instead of saying: "If only we had been able to include the 4/C) interim staff; if only we'd been able to add paralegal imams and paralegal trustees to the bill first, and then add them to the legal proposal, and then, again, by the proposal of our fellow members of the Justice of Justice of the AKP, we would have given them this staff, and we could have given them the happy news to the nurse, and the family health workers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the teachers, and the staff, and the staff, and the staff, and the staff, and the staff, and the staff, and the staff of the staff, and the staff, to whom we wish to whom we could be able to save. But, on the contrary, my previous friends have expressed that we have the authority of the office, which is the unit of engineers, but we haven't been able to provide them with an opportunity. Therefore, I think you will weigh these practices on your conscience, and I expect your support, again, because our motion is a reasonable motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0215par0094	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. Repayment of Article 5544 under Article 25 of the Law on Occupational Qualification, which is intended to be replaced by the Y Composition, shall be paid in accordance with Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 25. We submit and propose that the declaration be changed under the name of the right of peace. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0216par0101	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0215par0102	Government?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0217par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0215par0104	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0218par0105	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion as the Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. In fact, one of the things we have to stress every time we get on the stand here is that a very healthy way of working is not applied. There is an approach that concerns the future of Turkey, which makes laws that will concern people's lives, which put them all in a bag and rush them out of this bag -- because we can't talk about materials -- while they are being studied. We've seen here that it's very unhealthy. Because, especially with power depending on its own numerical majority, there are laws that we call laws. he says. The opposition is also at a point of opposition. We just had an example, and I think that's an example. A proposal from the opposition has been accepted. The opposition is even looking at what clause was removed from the law? Everyone started looking for a situation like this, so that's what's been done, Parliament. Now, on the one hand, the opposition is only doing evaluations at a point that is opposition, which is only a source of harm. If you ask the ruling lawmakers what text of the article has just been removed from the law, he won't know because it's just a matter of raising hands... Dear lawmakers, management is an art. If you manage it right, you improve your democracy, you strengthen it. Participation is one of the most important conditions in democracy. If you do something by trusting the majority of you, there will be opponents against you, and if not here, they will come out on the street, which we see that every day there are those who object to AKP's oppressive, authoritarian policies. Last night at midnight, for example, a law on TMMOB was brought in, issued here. You're talking. Well, if you had meetings with TMMOB when we're making this arrangement, if you'd arranged this issue, we have a problem like this, we don't have... You bring in an operation in the middle of the night, and you say it has to be done. It has to be done according to you, but to us, it's the right of another right, so it's the right of democracy. This is not acceptable. Naturally, TMMOB executives will object. Other trade organisations will object because you will do to other trade organisations and vocational rooms tomorrow what you did to TMMOB. This is the harbinger. Another matter: you know, in this particular context, there have been decrees in accordance with the law. We had an objection here at the time. We rule this country by law, by law, by law, by law. These laws cause serious problems in the practical field because we don't discuss them; we've done it. How are we going to fill this bag while we're doing it here? Now, when he sees power, he sees money, so he puts this bag in a bag, puts the law in a bag, weigh weight over it. E, rant... if you'll pay attention to all the arrangements, especially the Department of Urbanism and Environment was established under a decree of law. The urban transformation of urbanism, the ecological area, which made our living spaces into routs, has been transformed into something called HESEs, dams. Again, in other areas. You see, he's doing a profit-and-harm math, and that's power. He puts in two bags, how this bag is a dollar... and now, they object, of course, the public will object to it, not the acceptable style. It's not democratic. Now, today, we're going to rearrange what's in this bag of legislation, what's wrong with what's next. Here we go to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court sends it back, we make arrangements here. The method that keeps this Parliament running until morning is antidemocratic, despotic. You don't have the right to employ MPs like this. As a result, there's no discussion, the group's vice presidents... so let the AKP sit down alone, there's no need for the opposition to sit down, there won't be any change, we won't have our word, it'll just be your word. We're not your officers, so let's keep working on what you're saying. This method must be abandoned at once. This is also a method that causes serious problems in the coming term, not democratic, not participating, and this is a point that will block the system in the coming period. However, the laws that have been made here today cause other reactions on the street, causing bigger objections on the street, which is natural, which needs to be changed. As these objections arise, the government exerts pressure, acts violently, ignores this voice, ignores it. But remember, no matter how much you don't see it, no matter how much you don't want to hear it, there will be a strong democratic response, and you won't have this power that you think you're going to be able to use forever. If you want to keep it, you'll democratize it; there's no other way. That's the way it is in the world, participation is fundamental, democracy is fundamental, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0219par0115	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Article 73 (z) bendin (1) no. There are two proposals in the lower half, I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) and the subsidiary of the Constitutional Act on Changes in Some Laws and Laws were proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz "1) The first joke (b) of Article 2 of Jonah Emre Foundation Law 5/5/2007 and 5653 was redesigned as follows. "b) President: President of the Trustary Committee of the Dolphin Emre Foundation," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the Law Proposal and State Officials Act to change the provisions of some Laws and Laws and Laws Act 478 rankings that have been held, Publicity, Development, and Tourism Commission 73/z-1 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Free Light Thrower Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0220par0136	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0219par0137	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0221par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0219par0139	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0222par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a pledge on the number 478 rows, bill, bag, sack, basic law, coup law, or the number 73 of the undetermined article (z) of this freak. I salute the lawmakers who claim the culture of all the peoples living in our country. My dear friends, what does this stuff bring? Actually, he's not bringing anything. This article is called the President of the Trust of Yunus Emre, instead of the President of the Yunus Emre Foundation (Yunus Emre Foundation). Is this change enough to clear the name of Jonah Emre▪, whom you have defiled? It's never enough. Look, how did you soil Jonah's name? The purpose of this foundation is to introduce our culture in a country where cultural identity and belonging debates such as Turkey are very serious. This is a mission that requires heavy responsibility, and you have given this mission to this foundation, and only by law. Now, the name is beautiful, the Yunus Emre Foundation, which reminds me of world culture; the goal is good, but you gave it to the foundation that you made so ideological, as if our entire culture was just your worldview. Do you know where I got this? Right now I have a list of the founders of the Yunus Emre Foundation, a list of the trustees. I'll read some names, and you'll know what I mean. Founding trustees: President Abdullah Gul, former Minister of Culture and Tourism Attila Koç, former Minister of National Education Hüseyin Çelik, former Finance Minister Kemal Unakitan... is on the move. Well, let's look at the members of the Board of Trustees, because they can change: Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Culture and Tourism Ertugrul Günay, Minister of National Education Ömer Dinçer, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek... Do you realize I'm reading the Council of Ministers list? You've established a cultural foundation that's made up of your cabinet members. Isn't it a shame in Jonah's name, isn't it a sin? Now, I don't reject this culture; I make the world's views, culture of these people, but there are other cultures in this country, there are other peoples in this country. You've put such a mission into this foundation that it's as if our entire culture's promotion belongs to this foundation, and from there you're going to introduce our culture to the world with this view of the world. Here's your rotten, totalitarian, that's your self-centered approach. It's the same in culture, it's the same in economy, it's the same in health, it's the same everywhere. What's worse than worse? I do. You know, my brother, the Yunus Emre Cultural Foundation should also be established, and other cultural foundations should be established. Look, you're saying that all other cultural centers and Turkish language courses in the establishment of the Yunus Emre Cultural Centre are taken into the Yunus Emre Cultural Center. The Foundation has become the sole authority on the representation of Turkish culture because of you. Now, do you realize what you've done? When you leave this time tomorrow, when we leave this time, all of us will have a common culture like this, and you've woken up and named this foundation after the great Jonah Emre. So you've done the EK-PART classic again. Is that a good thing? Do you have to ruin everything, everything? Do you have to deny everything? You, who have stood on every stand, have rejected us in the past years, denied us. Now that you are in charge, you are doing something far worse than what has been done before, with feelings of vengeance. Does that suit you? You're big people, we all are. When we have this culture to uphold our culture, we all have to live together, and we're willing to give up the language of peace and speak the language of hostility, thanks to you on this roof. Please, make up your mind, dear lawmakers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0223par0152	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) and the subsidiary of the Constitutional Act on Changes in Some Laws and Laws were proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends "1) The first joke (b) of Article 2 of Jonah Emre Foundation Law 5/5/2007 and 5653 was redesigned as follows. "b) President: President of the Trustary Committee of the Dolphin Emre Foundation," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0224par0161	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0223par0162	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0225par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0223par0164	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0226par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the motion we made under Article 73 (z) of Law Proposal 478. I salute you all. Now, in the holy month of Ramazan, there are many who follow this bag of laws. And some of them are forest fire workers who are fighting fires these days, kicking their asses in the middle of the fire season. Now, forest fire workers, you know, they work for five months and twenty-nine days. Six months earlier, workers were recruited, but nearly 10,000 workers worked five months and twenty-nine days. These were activated for six months and it didn't work? No. As a result, due to the lack of man/months, he works for about five months and twenty-nine days, and won't be recruited. Now, these are our workers, working twenty-four hours in the season of fire, working hard at the top of the mountains, and our fellow workers, who are on guard by twenty-four in the middle of the caravan and who are fighting in a very serious way in the fires. In combating these fires, forest rangers and forest engineers, especially forest workers, have been martyred, so it's a pity that our friends, who made the struggle so sacred, were not recruited. Now, with protection of the forest, care of the forest, rehab of the forest, and the minister's 2 billion 800 million saplings. In this environment, where aphasic figures and figures are discussed, it will be possible for these workers working during the fire season to take advantage of their experience and, without fail, take 12 months off their concerns about tomorrow as well as to make our forests healthier and make their rehabilitation more healthy. Again, it's the government who worked in the fire during this administration... because all personnel of the Forest General Directorate... from the fire worker to the officer, to the engineer... can't take five months off. Even if he's at home at night, when there's news of a fire, he'll definitely join that fire. Now, this overtime, given in 2004, was lifted by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs as of last month. This has caused serious demoralisation in the staff working in forest fires. We're having a hard time understanding that. If the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is thinking about saving, it's important to ask him: We're having a hard time understanding an understanding of a non-sustaining understanding that he's bringing $1,300-month-old additional to his advisors who he's appointed as his own law enforcement officer in one night, who struggles with fires and struggles with a life-threatening cost of 200-300-400 lira, and in exchange for that, the engineer, the officer, who gets paid 200-300-400 lira to cut it off from the workers. Look, with this decree, in the same way, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, who did this practice, has his own special team working for him, the chief of staff, in the first place -- even though the chief of staff is chief of chief of staff -- 6400 additional indicators, which is in Turkey, where general managers and undersecretarys are assigned -- getting paid from 6400 additional indicators, but he has his own chief of staff. Is this not an injustice and injustice on the day of Ramadan? He doesn't move a muscle, even though we say it. But these powers aren't permanent. Look, it's up to us to answer for all the unfair money that's been taken. And again, since he worked with him, since the State Water Jobs, his advisors have been putting these, where they get a lot of salary, where they get a lot of money, where the inspector's salary goes up, where he takes it to the inspector's office, where he gets 1,300 lira per night. I mean, could there be such injustice and injustice? Despite the fact that we're saying this, we're going to talk about right, about law, we're going to talk about justice, you're going to stop working overtime for people who are fighting fires one-on-one by one, but you're going to have a sense of how to make more money for your own employees who are your zeroes. These aren't the right concepts. Again, look, there's been a rotation of the containment officers. Conservative officers are a people who try to maintain their lives on very low wages and are devoted to the protection of the forests. Now, for five years, employees were forced to transfer from one place to another. Well, you already have Mr. Secretary, the general manager... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he lacks a custodian, he's wrong, he's worn out, you're transferring him to that area. Now, is it possible for these people to have a mandatory appointment at a time when their children are in distress, in economic distress, in these blessed days when we enter Ramadan? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0227par0179	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 73 (z) has three proposals in sub-arm (2), which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act on Laws and the amendment of some Laws and Law Act on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay "2) The second sentence (b) of the first sentence (a) of Article 4 of Law 5653 has been changed in the following way. "The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Finance, Minister of National Education, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency abroad, President of the Turkish Language Foundation, President of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, are natural members of the Committee." "The Undersecretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Director of Foreign Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Education, the President of the Foreign Relations of Foreign Affairs, the President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Yunus Emre Institute, the natural members of the Governing Body of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges representative of Turkey." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 73rd draft of the current 478 rows. In the second sentence of Article 5653 of the Dolphin Emre Foundation Act (a) which is intended to be replaced with the 2nd amendment of the Article Z Foundation of Article 5653 of the Article of Article 5653 of the Article No. 553 of the Article (a) of the Article "The President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys and Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency (Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency), the President of the Turkish Language Association, and the Chairman of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges President of Turkey, we propose to release the 4th Articles (b) of the Law (b) from the second sentence "The President of Foreign Turks and Associations and Association of Relatives, the Turkish Co-operation and Coordination Agency, the Councils of Turkey and Exchanges" and the article. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tüzel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are 478 rows in which there are 478 lines in which there are amendments to the provisions of the Law and Budget Commission with the Law and Officials Act and the draft of the Law and the Amendment to the provisions of certain Laws and Laws. 2. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Free Special Mighty Skymen Reminders From the Heart Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0228par0209	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0227par0210	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0229par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0227par0212	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0230par0214	Mr. President, it's the blessed month of Ramadan, whose essence is sharing, solidarity, brotherhood, tolerance, and which drives us to understand each other, to understand each other. While this is what Muslims should be doing in geography, brotherhood, solidarity, tolerance, I regret to say, it's just blood and tears. The reason is for those who have no fear of exploiting our religion for power, polarizing the people, dividing them, dividing them, and hoping for the benefit of this division, conflict, those who become dictators and tyrants when they gain power. In Muslim geography, I sincerely hope that the bloodshed, blood and tears will stop quickly, on this blessed moon, I wish it to be the occasion. Mr. Prime Minister and his party spokesman have made some very meaningful and accurate remarks about these matters recently. Mr. Prime Minister, outside the box, there are criteria like law, like rights. The power that comes with the chest has no right to put the chest on the shelf, to put democracy on the shelf. He says, "He cannot build democracy that trusts in its gun power." He says, "He can't build democracy that trusts the power behind it and raises its voice too high." If you point guns at the public with the people's money, you've done a historical error, and that historical error will never be accepted, says the party spokesman. We tell the truth for who, without looking at what they're told, and under those right words we sign as Republican People's Party. But I wish Mr. Prime Minister and his party spokesman had spoken these words from the heart, from the heart, and from the heart, and from the heart, and from the heart, and from the heart, and from the hearts of the people of Egypt, and from the people of the world, and from the people of the world, if only they had not changed them. They use the right of civil disobedience to the people in Egypt, fighting for democracy. The large masses must maintain their own game, their own integrity. The prime minister and party spokesman, who said, tried to humiliate them with their expressions of expression for democracy, for their citizens who went out for the environment, for their own citizens, marginal, terrorist, invader, provocacator. But you know what the worst part is? I've said that before. I think what's worse is that Turkey, in its own area of the rally, is that this is Turkey, you're the real nation. He says, "You're the people." And with that, he ignores some of the people's will; he tries to divide the nation's will; he tries to bring the masses face to face. Worst, most dangerous. When the masses face each other, will you be happy when the blood flows? What will you gain? Who won something like this, and you're gonna win it? Egypt was struck and struck. I strongly condemn every weapon pointed at the people and the coup in Egypt. May God have mercy on the Egyptians who lost their lives. No matter what reason, no matter who it was done by, the blows were antidemocratic. Where there are coups, there are no democracy, where there are coups, democracy doesn't develop, there never is a coup d'état, but it's not enough to be against coups. We have to defend the basic values of democracy as well as we oppose the coups. The basic values of democracy, the unresolved, the free-talking opposition, the free media, the independent, the biased judgment, the freedom of faith, the protection of everyone's rights, and, of course, most importantly, of course, the free will. So if you put these fundamental values of democracy on the shelf, if you don't defend them, if you come with the chest, by election, by dictatorship, and try to take them down, then the democratic advocates will stand before you, just as they stand in the face of coups, and remind you that democracy is pluralism, that democracy is fundamental values, just as it is in the Travel Park.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0231par0219	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 73rd draft of the current 478 rows. In the second sentence of Article 5653 of the Dolphin Emre Foundation Act (a) which is intended to be replaced with the 2nd amendment of the Article Z Foundation of Article 5653 of the Article of Article 5653 of the Article No. 553 of the Article (a) of the Article "The President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys and Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency (Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency), the President of the Turkish Language Association, and the Chairman of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges President of Turkey, we propose to release the 4th Articles (b) of the Law (b) from the second sentence "The President of Foreign Turks and Associations and Association of Relatives, the Turkish Co-operation and Coordination Agency, the Councils of Turkey and Exchanges" and the article. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0232par0226	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0231par0227	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0233par0228	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0231par0229	Erol Dora, Mardin MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0234par0231	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we've made. I salute the General Assembly. The Minister of Foreign Turks (a) and the President of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency (Tordination Agency), the President of the Turkish Language Foundation, the Chairman of the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges (Turkish States) and the President of the Union of Turkey (Tordination) of Turkey (b) in the second sentence of Article 4 of the Law (b). The reason here is that Jonah Emre lived on the territory of Anatolia and is the common value of the peoples of Turkey. This value is also a symbol of love, peace, brotherhood, and because this foundation is attributed to only one nation in its established law, we have asked the Turkish Language Foundation, the Turks abroad and the Association of Relatives and the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency to remove its presidents from the text of matter because we think -- in our opinion -- that it should now change the creation of a single nation. In Turkey -- as you know -- our Mesopotamia, our Anatolian is a very rich geography, because it's a geography of different peoples and different nations, and we believe that if we change the formation of a single nation and instead build a new democratic republic in a pluralistic, more democratic modernity, then, now, we need to make legal and constitutional arrangements, considering the existence and sensibility of different nations in Turkey, different peoples, different religions. As you know, Turkey is also in the process of building a new constitution. We also want this idea to be included in this constitution because we think that the problems of the Kurdish problem, the Alevi problem, the minority issues, and all the other ethnic groups living in Turkey are mainly caused by this monotheistic mentality. In that sense, we do not think that such statements to a single ethnic group should be involved in these legal arrangements. Our goal here is to allow the 76 million living in Turkey to feel truly honored as citizens of this country. This is my country, where everyone can be an honorable citizen of this country, and no one can be an outcast, and everyone can say, "This is my country." For a new modernity, where everyone can be a patriot, we present these ideas in front of the board of directors. And as you know, I'd like to talk to you about these sexual abuses, especially in Bingol, which we've been caring about these past few days. As you know, 16 - year - old E. A.ya had been raped in Bingley, and later, although many perpetrators had committed this crime, many of these perpetrators were released by the court, and a major infinitive was created in Bingol. The people protested it with the march he had made. At the same time, a 14-year-old high school student was raped by a teacher serving in a private student dorm in Midyat district of Mardin, my constituency district, which was recently found to be a subjugation. I would like to address the Minister of Family and Social Policy and Mr. National Ministry of Education, under international agreements, and according to our Constitutional and national legislation, we would like to show sensitivity to this event and immediately provide both psychological and legal assistance. You know, everybody empathizes... these kids are all of our kids. So, given the psychological trauma they've experienced, I wish everyone would take care of these children, and I expect your support because the motion we've made will contribute to Turkey's brotherhood, to its unity. I salute you all again, with love.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0235par0240	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0236par0244	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0235par0245	There's a roll call. I'll do it: Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Tanrıkulu, Mr. Oran, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Şeşer, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Topal, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Develi, Mr. Oz, Mr. Değirmerdereli, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Trust, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Özkan and Mr. Akar. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Correction, I'm having the other motion read.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0237par0256	Substance vote... one minute...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0235par0257	One second, one second... so we've forgotten the motion by mistake, sir. I'm having the motion read now.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0237par0258	I see, right now the motion on the substance is in progress, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0235par0259	Yes, I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officials Act on Laws and the amendment of some Laws and Law Act on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "2) The second sentence (b) of the first sentence (a) of Article 4 of Law 5653 has been changed in the following way. "The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Finance, Minister of National Education, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency abroad, President of the Turkish Language Foundation, President of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, are natural members of the Committee." "The Undersecretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Director of Foreign Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Education, the President of the Foreign Relations of Foreign Affairs, the President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Yunus Emre Institute, the natural members of the Governing Body of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges representative of Turkey." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0238par0267	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0235par0268	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0239par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0235par0270	Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0240par0272	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 73rd Amendment -- which is now short because it already takes two minutes -- (z) the second subdivision of the bend. I salute you all. Before my speech began, on 11 July 1995, a massacre took place in Bosnia, in Srebrenica, in the middle of Europe, in the middle of Europe. That's when it started, and there was a massacre going on until the next day. From here, I ask God's mercy to our Muslim brothers who died in Bosnia, and unfortunately, so far, there has been no account for the genocide in Bosnia, and we expect the account to be done as soon as possible. Dear friends, the Yunus Emre Foundation was founded to provide representation of Turkey abroad, to teach people abroad, to teach them Turkish. But unfortunately, as there are many areas in your power of power, you've made this political, and yet you've appointed the people who are close to you, regardless of whether or not it's appropriate for you to do what you do there. How well Jonah said to Emre: "The sentences are true, if you are right, there is no truth if you are crooked." If your work is truly right, then be assured that you will be supported and supported by the opposition, and remember that the right motions from the opposition are also required to accept, if those in power have really absorbed that power. In this sense, the dolphin wrote beautiful euphemisms, beautiful poems. He says: "The Lord is the Lord of all things. Do not think that the wrong-doers have a tryst. It's time for you, too, dear friends, precious AKP-like deputies, and it's time for you. You're taking the burden of the oppressed near 11 years, and it's your time, and it's clearly time for you to be taken down, as it was in many parts of Turkey, by not giving in to any of your -- in that sense -- to your persecution. The waters have passed, and the time has passed. How many Khans have left the throne. The world is a window. It is one of Jonah's poems that continues to say, "The world is a window." Of course, you must first understand Jonah, dear friends. You must first understand Jonah. You will open a foundation in the name of Jonah Emre abroad and remove Jonah's poems from the textbooks! What kind of business is that? What kind of work is that, what kind of disrespect is that? Like Yunus Emre, you will give the name of one of the most important figures in our history to our very important institutions abroad, and you will extract the poems of Jonah Emre. Give them to me a few virgins and a few palaces, which they call paradise, which they call you, which they call you. I need you. Yunus Emret, who goes on to me, has poems in different fields, but you will not use them as it suits you, nor will you take out the ones that disturb you from the textbooks. If only you could read Jonah's poems, you should have tried to understand Jonah Emre. In that sense, you would understand how great a name the name Yunus Emre is, and how important functions are being established by our Yunus Emre Foundations abroad, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit06spe0241par0284	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0241par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 136th Union. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. In Article 73 (z) of the proposal, there are three motions on subset (3): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural "3) Article 5 of Law 5653 has been changed in the following way. "The Council of the Centre of Culture 5- (1) consists of three members of the Board of Directors of Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the Council of Culture and Guidance, the relevant Culture Centre director, prominent Turkish businessmen, scientists, cultural and arts officials who live in the city where the Cultural Centre is located, and three members of the Governing Body will elect for three years. If there are co-ordinating meetings of the Cultural Centres established outside the capitals, the representative of the State Department in that city will attend as a member. He makes his decisions with a majority of votes. (2) The tasks of the Cultural Centre co-ordination boards are: A) To make suggestions to the Institute on the specifics of the country in which the cultural centre is located, the selection of contracted personnel and the director of the Cultural Centre to be employed, the budget, the determination of the activities to be made. B) To support, promote the activities of the Cultural Centre; to inform the Institute of the emergency measures needed to be halted, in case any actions or activities that are incompatible with the laws or the interests of the country are found for the foundation's establishment. C) Co-operation and work necessary for the establishment and effective work of the Honor Board. ) To support the management of the Cultural Centre in accordance with procedures and fundamentals determined by the Institute. "D) In accordance with the country's legislation for the management of the Cultural Centre, conducting institutional procedures and co-operation with the Institute in matters of control." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose the release of "Turkish businessmen" from the text of the article "Turkish businessmen" in the 1st joke of the 5th Amendment of Jonah Emre Foundation Law, which is intended to be replaced by the 3rd bend of the Z Joke. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Secret Abdullah Levent corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the Charter of Plan and Budget Committee Reports 73/z-3 from the bill under the Law and Law Act. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Özgür Special ♪ High above, high above, high above, high above ♪ Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0242par0036	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0241par0037	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0243par0038	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0241par0039	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0244par0041	Precious lawmakers, executives who do not internalize democracy in countries that can't build democracy -- whether they come with a coup, whether they come in uniform; come with elections and get power in suits -- show up with a picture like this: restricting human rights and freedoms, violations; free from truth, rights -- the filling of all the government's institutions with power-sides; the turning of all institutions and institutions into tools of persecution, oppression; violence, detentions, long imprisonments, and all opposition sounds -- the empire of fear. Two days ago, 32 people including İstanbul Medical Chamber Secretary General Dr. Ali Çerkeçeoğlu and İstanbul Chamber of Architects executives were taken into custody and searched their homes illegally. Women, teenagers, unions, journalists, I think it's time for the rooms. Occupational rooms, unions, all NGOs are the foundations of democracy. Trying to control NGOs, unions, rooms, try to digest what they can't take into custody, and try to destroy their powers with a pirated motion in the middle of the night, their incomes, is a coup to democracy, not to believe in democracy. Civil society is not the focus of power. Occupational rooms aren't your party rooms. These are the cradles of democracy, an expression of the power of society, the seat belt of democracy. In Turkmenistan, the state is for the man. There's writing, it's very true. The state exists for the people, not to persecute their people, to terrorize their people, to oppress them with fear. Yes, it's true, in countries like ours, where democracy is advanced, there's not as much police violence as there is, but there's nowhere to be found with machetes and machetes. Killers with machetes are murderers behind cops... no matter what their name is, no matter what they're after, no matter who they're after, they're murderers, they're murderers. They take those 50-inch machetes and attack women, young men, with police escorts. What's the point? The goal is to unleash fear, to intimidate it. These villains walk through the square with their 50-inch machetes so comfortable, they don't even have to hide their faces. Look, police officers have been hiding their helmet numbers, admitting that they've done things that shouldn't be done in democracies since the demonstrations started, but these machetes are so comfortable, so confident, they don't hide their faces or themselves. They're defenseless, they've got nothing, they've got peaceful words and actions, they're just attacking young people protesting, villains... you're ignoring them. Come on, you're ignoring it, but in the name of democracy of our country, you know what's really scary about our future? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's because of your fear that these people, these machetes, these murderers, the governors, the police, the prosecutors, are ignoring them. In the name of my country's democracy, that's what scares me in the name of my future, not the other one. But the whole world has seen your true face, your democracy. Take the children into the country with pepper spray, medicine water, batons, beat up the journalists in charge, our Istanbul County President, shut the fuck up! Take the children with the water pistol into custody, ignore the murderers with the machetes. It's your democracy. When it comes to Egypt, you are cut off as an apostle of democracy, but for the past thirty-six days, you have been fighting for the life of Berkin Jon, Mustafa Ali Tombul... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What does the name Ali Ismail Korkmaz mean to you that we have lost today in the struggle for life?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0048	Thank you, Your Highness.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0244par0049	Do your consciences really hurt? Because we haven't heard their names from you or heard a single word of mercy about these citizens in days.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0050	Your Highness, please.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0244par0051	I say this is your conscience, your sincerity.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0246par0054	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0056	There's a motion to roll call before you submit the motion to your votes, and I'll grant it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Yüyük, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Earth, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Akar, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Demirçallı, Mr. Special, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kuşutoğlu, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "3) Article 5 of Law 5653 has been changed in the following way. The Council of Culture Centers 5- (1) consists of three members of the Board of Directors of Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the Council of Culture and Guidance, and the relevant Culture Centre director, prominent Turkish businessmen, scientists, cultural and art figures who live in the city where the Cultural Centre is located, and three members the Governing Body will elect for three years. If there are co-ordinating meetings of the Cultural Centres established outside the capitals, the representative of the State Department in that city will attend as a member. He makes his decisions with a majority of votes. (2) The tasks of the Cultural Centre co-ordination boards are: A) To make suggestions to the Institute on the specifics of the country in which the cultural centre is located, the selection of contracted personnel and the director of the Cultural Centre to be employed, the budget, the determination of the activities to be made. B) To support, promote the activities of the Cultural Centre; to inform the Institute of the emergency measures needed to be halted, in case any actions or activities that are incompatible with the laws or the interests of the country are found for the foundation's establishment. C) Co-operation and work necessary for the establishment and effective work of the Honor Board. ) To support the management of the Cultural Centre in accordance with procedures and fundamentals determined by the Institute. D) To conduct institutional procedures in accordance with the country's legislation for the management of the Cultural Centre, to co-operate with the Institute on issues of control. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0247par0080	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0248par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0083	Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0249par0085	Sir, the motion center is running, so the motion is coming in, and we're really trying to keep track of what's in it. They don't know... it's not a disgrace.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0245par0086	Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm not going to take any more turns because things got really complicated, and we're at the bottom of some kind of two or three bases. Now, when we look a little bit at the Yunus Emre Foundation, when we look at the foundation's work, we see that the president of the foundation's speech in different places, not only is teaching Turkish, which is important, but teaching Turkish abroad, as well as opening a Turkish coffee in Şanzelize, for example, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, has this intention. I don't know, about that, the relevant ministry, and they've just been counted here as members of the board of directors, do they have anything to say? The trustee's delegation has many names from the President to the former ministers. I wonder what they say about coffee opening. I'm wondering if you've reached an agreement between yourselves on who's going to be bid on this coffee. Again, Jonah wrote a beautiful poem about it: The men have gone astray, He knows not the poor, It's come out of my heart, He must have dived into Lake Nefs. And the word of Jonah is from my Lord, For the cruel to be Zinhar, Fear death, The man born of the sentence is dead. We're all going to die one day, and we're all going to die, and we're all going to be asked how the Grand Assembly works -- Mr. Group -- as our Deputy President just expressed -- is a motion to produce, a law, a design production center, or is it really useful to the Turkish nation -- that all of this will be accounted for before we leave this world, but after we leave this world, the account will be questioned. Dear MPs, of course, the activities of the Yunus Emre Foundations abroad are important, and I've come out to talk about it, but while I think about this world and the afterlife in the atmosphere of this Ramadan, I can't help but say: "Stop using religion to politics, stop doing politics over our mosques." Although Mr. Prime Minister is qualified to be the first prime minister to hold a rally in Turkey's mosque, come and give it up. In recent days, the word of the Prime Minister of Gezi, what do you want from our mosques, is indeed a promise that must be given a lot of thought. Because people were injured in that mosque and the imam of the mosque was not drunk here, nothing was done here. What do you want from our mosques?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0251par0101	What do they teach at the Dolphin Emre Cultural Center? Don't they teach you Turkish?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0102	Guys, look what Yunus Emre said about people like you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0251par0103	Don't they teach Turkish, Turkish?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0104	For the wicked shall not be able to do it, and the good answer to silence shall be to him that is lost. And Jonah's words also to you are in that sense.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0251par0105	Don't they teach Turkish at the Dolphin Emre Cultural Center?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0106	Did the mosque's imam... visit the mosque in shoes with Prime Minister Obama? (AK PARTY RUMBLING) Tell me that.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0252par0107	Let him speak decently, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0253par0108	Didn't you see what that man and girl did at the mosque? You're not saying that.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0109	So you know what Jonah Emre says: "The rich without labor, And as for him who hath knowledge of the Scripture, And as for him whose capital is religion, His guide has become the devil.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0254par0113	Stop politics over religion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0255par0114	Why don't you blame the boy and the girl? Blame them, too.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0115	Let not the Koran be your guide, nor let your capital be religion. Come, stop politics over the mosque, come, religion, stop politics over faith.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0256par0117	They teach Turkish at the Yunus Emre Cultural Center.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0118	I have just read the word of Jonah, which you do not understand, and I will read it again.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0257par0119	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0120	My Lord forbids him who commits lewdness, and silence is the best answer to what is lost in the literary hand.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0258par0121	Didn't you see what that girl and the guy did at the mosque? Blame them, too.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0259par0122	They teach Turkish there, why don't you tell them?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0250par0123	I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0260par0125	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose the release of "Turkish businessmen" from the text of the article "Turkish businessmen" in the 1st joke of the 5th Amendment of Jonah Emre Foundation Law, which is intended to be replaced by the 3rd bend of the Z Joke. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0261par0131	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0260par0132	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0262par0133	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0260par0134	Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0263par0135	Mr. President, my dear friends, in fact, our friend, Jonah Emre Foundation Law 5653, the source of this clause, has spoken enough about the purpose of the Law. I'll make a few more points. First, it is necessary to acknowledge that it is a severe injustice to the partnership, plurality, and rights of all the cultures living in Turkey to be funded by a moving foundation that works on the tax of people of Turkey, to develop only Turkish language abroad. Who will promote Lazcan, Kurdish, Arabic, Circicsian? They're citizens of this country, aren't they paying taxes for it? But the fact that this missionary foundation, founded on the principle of Turkish-Islam synthesism, is based on this kind of law and this way, is, for one thing, against civic rights. Second: Along with this amendment proposal, a series of bureaucrats, businessmen, civil servants, that's what they're going to bring to the co-ordinating board, including well-known Turkish businessmen. Why the Turk and the man? Like, what about the Arab and the woman? Couldn't it be something else? In this regard, this law also brings a racist, segregating, heterosexual, male dominant definition of membership in the coordination board. Now, who's he doing this for? In fact, the most respected poet of the tradition of prayer is Bektashi, a labourer, a labourer who carried firewood to Worship Emrek for 40 years, a labour poet who was given one year in 1991 by UNESCO. This one will work under the management of the businessmen. Do you really think these businessmen can work with the spirit of Yunus Emre? Do you not know that Jonah Emre was, above all, a stranger to property and property? Look, I'll tell you one or two things: The owner of the property, the owner of the property, Where's the first owner? The wealth is a lie, and the property is a lie. Why don't you take your time? You're going to leave this person in the icy waters of a selfish account under the rule of a human race who knows nothing but cash? Yes, a human species, a human class. This class knows nothing but money and stamps. This class knows nothing but greed. This class knows nothing but profit, and it swims in the icy waters of a selfish account. What is the relationship between this and Jonah Emre? For those like Yunus Emre, ▪ The more you have, Death presents your hand, What ace did he hang, Karun? When he's sunk into this world, he says. What do these men, these women, have to do with the culture of Yunus Emre. What does it have to do with what he thinks? What does the tradition of Tasavuf have to do with the Turkish-Islam synthesis of people? Can a thousand cultures among Turkey's people, made out of a thousand pieces of dough, be reduced to a single Turkish culture? That's why, dear friends, there's no good in this law. You can make that change, but in the end, you've wronged everyone, you've destroyed what everyone has in common. But it won't last forever. Let me recite to you the story of Jonah Emre, and the poets, such as him, who taught you the story of the final reckoning. ▪ An eagle of flies, He shook it, he knocked it down. It's not a lie. It's a fact. I've seen the dust. You'll be dusted off just like on the Trip, my friends.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0264par0157	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0265par0161	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0264par0162	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Altay, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Land, Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0266par0164	Mr. President, he needs to be on his feet, you're not looking.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0267par0165	When we heard it, we sat down when the president heard it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0266par0166	It didn't get up, then.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0268par0167	Since it's a list, sir, it's the lawmakers standing up. Mr. Young, Mr. Develi, Mr. Demirçalı, Mr. Millerdereli. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 73 (aa) there are three motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. Under Article 10 of the 6004 Ministry of Foreign Affairs (b) which has been asked to replace the paragraph of the Article (b) of the Article "History, sociology, public relations and promotion, psychology, economics, business, finance and finance, and any of these departments, we offer at least 80% of the other chapters of the curriculum, or "or at least four years of graduate education in social sciences, or engineering schools, and an offer of international relations, political governance, and public education, and education in the fields of public law." Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Secret Abdullah Levent corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Make Changes in Decisions (a) and I propose that I shall change Article 73 (a) of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and the Commission of Tourism (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal "aa) The first joke (b) of Article 10 of the First Article of the Law on the Foundation and Missions of State Department No. 6004, dated 7/7/2010, has been changed as follows. "b) In order to become a professional officer, the conditions listed in Article 657 under Article 48 of the Law have been sealed, with the approval of universities in the country or the degree equivalent of degrees in higher education at least 80% of the faculty of foreign universities, who have at least four years of license education in international relations, political science, public administration, history, sociology, public relations and promotion, psychology, economics, business, finance and finance, and any of these departments that have had at least 80 percent of the education in law schools, or at least four years of education in the field of universities or in social sciences, or at least four years of education in the field of public education, and education in public relations, in the field of public relations, in the field of public relations, education, in the field of public affairs, education, in the field of public education, in the field of law, in the field of law, in the field of employment, and in the field of law, in the field of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of law. As of January 1st of the year when the vocational officer's exam took place, it is imperative that those who have a degree are not thirty-five years old and have a master's degree. He's been running for a year as a career officer. The procedure and the basis for the competition exam are determined by regulations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 is 73. We propose that the aa be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Osman Taney Örkurk Engin Altay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0269par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0268par0204	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0270par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0268par0206	Osman Kuruturk, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0271par0208	Mr. President, dear friends, we are looking at a series of motions that will change the State Department from beginning to end. We talked about it in the subcommittee of the Plan and Budget Commission, and we explained it over and over. The Plan and Budget Commission subcommittee issued these bills, the proposals that just came in, from the text. Then he went to the general commission of the Plan and Budget Commission, where he came out. He's coming here one more time. Now, I have no objection to the change brought into the State Department about the entrance exam, no one is expected to have any objections, because this opens the pool of entry into the State Department; it expands much more with the record of doing political information, economics, finances, and not just engineering, doctorates or mastering in social sciences. That's the way it is all over the world, and it's good to have it that way, and so that's a good suggestion. The only change in this proposal is that instead of having already turned 35 in the history of the exam, you have turned 35 on January 1st or if you have a master's degree, you are 37 years old. I don't object to that either, but you should all think, how old is a 37-year-old, 35-year-old State Department officer, how old is he, how old is he, how old is he, how old is he? I don't understand it because when you look at the State Department, the State Department is a real professional organization. Whoever enters first becomes a candidate occupational officer, and then, after six months, the third clerk, the second clerk three years later, the embassy chief of staff three years later, the ambassador's chief of staff three years later, then the ambassador's secretary three years after that, and then the ambassador's secretary, as in the military. When you put these in three, three, three, is the 37-year-old going to be an ambassador at 70? I don't understand why it's done this way, who it's done for. Sometimes in the army, in the old days, there were lots. He makes a description that he's going to be six feet tall, he's going to speak English, he's going to speak German, he's going to play volleyball, he's going to play football, he's going to drive a nice car, he's going to do it to one person. Everyone would be surprised if he came up with two or three people behind one person's back, and that's probably something like that, a 37-year-old guy, who needs to get in here. But that's not the thing to be careful about, it's the thing to be careful about: not disrupting the state's order. You may not find the profile of the State Department personnel very appropriate, but you might think so. The State Department's test is a very serious test, a closed test; people from all places, people from all origins come in, enter, and the winner works. But you could say I want more men on my profile. And the way to do that is not to stab people from the outside, but to correct it at the entrance to the Ministry, but within the Ministry, people have to pass through this vocational training. If they don't pass through them, foreign policy is a very serious issue for the existence of countries, for its location, we have to be very careful about them, but unfortunately we don't see that attention. Foreign Affairs is supposed to be something that anyone who speaks a little language, who lives abroad, can do, but it's something that passes through a vocational education. That's why you have to be careful with these. Now, folks, there's no serious objection to how old you are in the history of this test, but you really have to object to the age of 37 and 35. What will a 35-year-old man do for a living, what will he do for a living, what will he do for a living? Do you know any professions that start at 35 and reach the top of that profession at 70? He's 65 years old and he's retired. So, when you're making these laws, you have to be a little bit more serious. You have to look at what he's giving forward. But in other matters, about our motion, and about the new law that was brought in later, we'll also talk about those issues, and if those arrangements are made, I'll tell you why none of you will ever be able to rise from the depths of this destruction when it's your turn. I don't expect you to refuse as much as the Plan and Budget Commission does, and I see you're too alert to deny the error, but we'll talk about it in a moment. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0272par0216	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Make Changes in Decisions (a) and I propose that I shall change Article 73 (a) of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and the Commission of Tourism (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "aa) The first joke (b) of Article 10 of the First Article of the Law on the Foundation and Missions of State Department No. 6004, dated 7/7/2010, has been changed as follows. "b) In order to become a professional officer, the conditions listed in Article 657 under Article 48 of the Law have been sealed, with the approval of universities in the country or the degree equivalent of degrees in higher education at least 80% of the faculty of foreign universities, who have at least four years of license education in international relations, political science, public administration, history, sociology, public relations and promotion, psychology, economics, business, finance and finance, and any of these departments that have had at least 80 percent of the education in law schools, or at least four years of education in the field of universities or in social sciences, or at least four years of education in the field of public education, and education in public relations, in the field of public relations, in the field of public relations, education, in the field of public affairs, education, in the field of public education, in the field of law, in the field of law, in the field of employment, and in the field of law, in the field of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of law. As of January 1st of the year when the vocational officer's exam took place, it is imperative that those who have a degree are not thirty-five years old and have a master's degree. He's been running for a year as a career officer. The procedure and the basis for the competition exam are determined by regulations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0273par0225	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0272par0226	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0274par0227	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0272par0228	Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0275par0230	Your choice of shoes is wrong, Mr. Okan.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0276par0231	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, they didn't say, friend to head, enemy to foot... for nothing. My friend, the AK PARTY MP, looks at the shoe, looks at the foot. Don't look at your feet, look at your head. Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0277par0234	You're the ones with the shoes. The enemy looks at your feet, you're telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0276par0235	That was the last time, then you were going to talk about it, now we're talking about the State Department. We are now at the bottom of Article 73 (z). If you've messed up the order, let me read it again.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0278par0236	We're not there.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0276par0237	Aren't we there? Dear friends, the structure of our State Department has never been under so much pressure from politics. In that sense, our State Department was held out of politics during all the past governments, and it was done very correctly. For example, in Libya, the embassy was able to predict what was going on in the past. On the night after the note arrived, there was no cause for concern for our citizens in Libya. Only one day after they had been called, the people who had rebelled against Gaddafi had not started a serious public uprising in Libya, so the ambassadors could have predicted it, or they could have predicted it, or there would not have been a military coup in Egypt. Of course, in a foreign ministry, how many months, how many years does a foreign language be taught, or how long are foreign diplomats raised? Is ten years enough for that? That's enough, but unfortunately, how many ambassadors do we have that speak Arabic in the Middle East, where you say you're so ambitious? How many are there? I'm asking you. There's none, there's no Arabic. If you can't grow it in ten years, you can't raise an ambassador if you can't raise the only State official who can speak the language of that country in the Middle Eastern geography that you've come up with in ten years with such a big claim. Don't ask a written question, State Department...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0279par0240	There's someone at the State Department who speaks Arabic that you know is wrong.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0276par0241	Guys, don't talk until you know it. I'm going to ask you a written question through the Secretary of State's response. Our State Department doesn't speak Arabic, one speaks Armenian, and none other than that. How many years have we been dealing with problems in these geographys, but in our State Department -- you've been in power for ten and a half years -- you haven't been able to raise a single diplomat who speaks Arabic. What are you doing now? Now you're trying to get your followers in there somehow. Mr. Davutoglu, I really want to ask you: Is the purpose of Mr. Davutoglu being brought to this office to disrupt Turkey's foreign relations? There's only one country left after we came to power where our relationship is good. You know, the relationship with Egypt got a little better, and now it's broken after the military coup. Meanwhile, 150 dumpsters from the two ministers the Prime Minister had commissioned have gone through the cracks, so to speak, have gone to waste. Dear friends, East Turkistan is crying blood, the Foreign Minister is silent; Türkmen are being massacred in Kerkuk, Mr. Davutoglu is silent...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0280par0244	Syria.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0276par0245	One day in a day by the Syrian Turkmen, Mr. Davutoglu didn't care about his troubles, he didn't say a word about it. The invasion continues in the mountain of Karabağ, and you want to open doors with the Armenians. For God's sake, does Mr. Davutoglu have a problem with the Turkish world, with the Turks? Tell us, and we'll know. Wherever there is a Turk, wherever there is a Turk's problem, wherever there is a problem in the Turkish world, Mr. Davutoglu is not in the market. It's as if Mr. Davutoglu is not the Minister of Foreign Affairs in those cases, but the Minister of Dream Affairs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0281par0248	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. Under Article 10 of the 6004 Ministry of Foreign Affairs (b) which has been asked to replace the paragraph of the Article (b) of the Article "History, sociology, public relations and promotion, psychology, economics, business, finance and finance, and any of these departments, we offer at least 80% of the other chapters of the curriculum, or "or at least four years of graduate education in social sciences, or engineering schools, and an offer of international relations, political governance, and public education, and education in the fields of public law." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0282par0255	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0281par0256	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0283par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0281par0258	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0284par0259	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we've made. I salute your committee. There's a Parliament practice that's been working for almost a week, day and night, but when we look at the issues he's been working on, unfortunately, the House is working on a bag of laws, which, as usual, are off the agenda of the public, given by more bureaucrats, on what the ministries have proposed here. But the public's agenda is very different, and the people's expectations of Congress are very different. If this Parliament had worked day and night following the public's agenda, it could have ended every minute of this blessed Ramadan month with a very virtuous act that would turn every second of it into a permanent peacekeeping. I'm afraid we have to state that this House is still far from the public agenda. Today, when you looked at the agenda of the public, the agenda of Diyarbakir was: Two years ago, Vedat Aydın, head of the HEP province, was taken from his house by a number of confederates who identified him as police officers, and a few days later, Vedat Aydın was found under a bridge near the mining district of Elaziğ. On that day, in the person of Vedat Aydın, it was actually a signal flare of a series of massacres against the freedom, the struggle, the language, the identity of a whole nation, and unfortunately, after Vedat Aydın, the Musa Anter (Moses) were the real agenda of this country, the Mehmet Sincarites, the Abdülsam Sakık, the thousands of perpetrators, the unsolved killings, the thousands of villages, the tortures, the mass graves. According to 8 unofficial figures, 23 of our citizens, 23 of our citizens, were brutally murdered again. In fact, in the twenty-second year of the murder of Vedat Aydın, the perpetrators of this assembly had to bear the pain of not being able to uncover these murders, not facing those murders that were obvious. Unfortunately, it's been almost working for 24 hours, Parliament, but we haven't seen the will to end this country's brother-to-brother fight, which really wants peace here about this matter or the solution to this problem. When you looked at the press statements of those who were still in your line of MPs, who were then interior ministers, it was said that this murder would be solved immediately, that the people who opened fire on the people would be tried, but, unfortunately, those murders, as well as tens of thousands of unsolved murders, were tried to be covered by time. We know that the perpetrators are the same as those who slew Ethem Sarısuluk, and those who slew Medeni Yıldırım, and Ali Ihsan Korkmaz. Because as long as the mind doesn't change, there's no chance this country's fate will change. Look, in the very important arguments that you've brought to Congress these days about the solution process, the very important arguments that we're having about the hope of peace, you're suggesting that the rangers increase their salary; you're moving a will to continue the protection system. How can it be so insincere, so insincere? If you're going to make peace, shouldn't you remove the ranger system? What's the point of bringing an 80 grand paramilitary force here, if the weapons are going to go off-line, which is a force that they've already done in the region? You're sailing in very dangerous waters. Syria's policy, Iraq, Iran's policy is bankrupt, Egypt's policy has hit the wall; with the European Union, you're in recess every day; the scissors have been opened with America. There's only one thing that makes you breathe; it's the process of resolution, the hope of peace. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you play dangerous with this solution process, you'll be blocking an artery, a trachea that you'll be breathing in. I wouldn't want to give these warnings at this time of night, but unfortunately, AKP's insistence on its non-resolving policies continues.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0285par0267	Yes, thank you, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0284par0268	I hope you'll give up these wrongs. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0286par0273	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0287par0274	I'll submit the motion to your votes; there's a call request, and I'll carry it out: Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Atici, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Topal, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Acar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Develi, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Değirindereli. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0288par0287	Mr. President, now, sir, you took a break a while ago...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0287par0288	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0288par0291	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, you took a break a while ago, and after the break, we started renegotiating. When the negotiations began, we saw that the commissions were filled with members of the Justice and Development Party's Plan and Budget Commission. When the Justice and Development Party is filled with lawmakers at the time, there is another danger coming to democracy, we receive its signal. As a matter of fact, with that crowd at the time, we've seen very important arrangements on the motion set that we've been handed out, and now you're going to read these motions. One of the proposals includes a proposal to re-inclusion an arrangement that was removed from the proposal text during previous talks on the Plan and Budget Commission. This is a motion to fill the State Department with people who don't know foreign policy, with their own relatives, acquaintances, as the government wants. This motion violates Article 128 of the Constitution, where it cannot be processed. That's the first thing I'm gonna say. Second: Again, it is a motion to make a change in Article 74 of the proposal we discussed. This provides our Minister of Labour and Social Security with a staff outreach abroad because of his acquaintances, friends, wives, friends, and members of the Justice and Development Party Group. The item we're meeting with is a violation of the Interior Charter, while the arrangement to provide the Department of Labor and Social Security with a staff of foreign social security advisors or an attache staff is also a violation. I also wonder what kind of objective reason is there for sending more staff to the countries where our workers abroad, if we have become a country that no longer sends workers abroad, or if our citizens who go abroad are more established? Again, another motion is an arrangement that has been severed by the Interior Charter in order to circumvent the 87th Article of the Civil Code, even though the Law 6111 really needs to be changed. Mr. President, you violated the Civil Code here yesterday. In violation of the Civil Code, you have violated the Civil Code, in accordance with the Law on Ideas and Arts No. 5846, by enforcing a motion under Law 3194. Again, Turkey's Architect, you have filed a motion against the Interior Charter, against which you have been brought in violation of the Interior Charter, in order to punish the Union of Engineers for the actions of the Taxi Travel Park based entirely on political grounds. Yesterday, you committed an unlawful act, and today I expect you to say, "This is illegal." I'm asking you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, not to commit this illegal act. You have no right. I invite you to comply with the Civil Code. These motions are non-negotiable.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0289par0301	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Now, there's a motion for a new clause, and I'm going to read the motion. I'll open it up as a matter of opinion if the commission is mostly involved. In the meantime, you state your views. In addition, if there is a claim against the Constitution, you will submit it as a motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0290par0303	Mr. President, that's no way to live!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0289par0305	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0306	Mr. President, I've drawn a review. You have an obligation to respond to these criticisms. The fact that you're sitting on top doesn't give you the right to look at us from above.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0289par0307	I'm answering it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0292par0308	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0309	Please. I'll make you read the motions. You say that now. I made a claim against the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0293par0310	Sir, let's hear the motion!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0294par0311	No, Mr. Hamzacebi, you want me to respond the way you want me to. I'm telling you what I'm going to do, what I can do, General Board, or rather.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0312	Wait, when you say I can do it, are you under pressure?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0294par0313	I'm telling you what I have to do, actually.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0314	Don't you have free will? Mr. President, the Civil Code is here.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0294par0315	No, this isn't about me, Mr. Hamzacebi. You need to talk to the group that brought this in, the members of the group, you need to tell the commission.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0295par0317	Mr. President, you're running the House, you're going to make them... I mean, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0291par0318	Mr. President, you're in charge of the House. You don't live there for him?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0296par0319	I do what the Civil Code commands and what it requires.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0297par0320	Mr. President, you are acting in accordance with the Civil Code. After asking the commission, it is discussed whether it is contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0296par0321	Yeah, I'm explaining that, but...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0297par0322	Here's a motion made against him, against the Constitution...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0298par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0296par0324	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0298par0325	You can't put the amendments to the Constitution, against the Civil Code, into action here.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0299par0326	Of course not.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0296par0327	I don't have that authority, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0298par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0300par0329	Sir, then that means that you can violate the Civil Code, and that's not going to happen.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0298par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0301par0331	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm not going to appreciate whether the motion is contrary to the Constitution or not, the General Assembly appreciates it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0302par0332	That's right.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0301par0333	That's what I just wanted to tell you. I'll open it as matter, and it'll be discussed. If you claim to be in violation of the Constitution at the time, you will make a motion -- which you have.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0302par0334	That's it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0301par0336	What else can I do?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0337	Mr. President, it is the duty of the Vice President of the Presidential Court to execute this Civil Code. If you...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0301par0338	No, sir, there's no way to reject the Presidential Court as a violation of the Constitution, and there's no authority.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0339	Mr. President, who will enforce the 87th Amendment of the Civil Code, and who will look after it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0304par0340	Mr. President, we are not the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0341	If it is not the duty of the Presidential Court to implement the 87th Amendment of the Civil Code, then whose duty is it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0304par0342	It's a very appropriate move for the Civil Code 87.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0305par0343	It's the General Assembly's job, sir, that's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0344	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0305par0345	The General Assembly considers a motion for violation of the Constitution as a violation of the Constitution. If this assessment sees a breach with the Constitution at the end, it may refuse to hold a vote. Other than that, our presidency has no authority to implement a motion to violate the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0305par0347	The Constitution is established to make a decision on the contrary. It is possible that after the regulation has been enforced, the Constitutional Court will be prosecuted for violation of the Constitutional Court, and the regulation will be annulled. Thus, the position of our presidency is correct. I mean, where's the opportunity for me to reject this new clause because it's against the Constitution, in what article of the Charter?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0303par0348	Mr. President, look, I'm saying two things: First, I'm claiming a violation of the Constitution; second, I'm claiming a violation of Article 87 of the Civil Code. I'll give you...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0306par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0305par0350	Just a moment, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0307par0351	Let's hear the motion, sir. We don't know, talk about what?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0308par0352	I have invited you to observe the Civil Law.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0307par0353	Read the motion to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0309par0354	You're the one giving the motion, you don't know what you're giving!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0310par0355	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, I'll read the motion, the clause. I'll put an interview on it, I'll listen to you again.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0311par0356	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0310par0357	There's a motion for a new substance violation. As they know...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0311par0358	Mr. President, one moment, sir. Sir, I'm going to start a formal discussion. That's not why I'm going to start a conversation about how you didn't listen to me.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0310par0360	I don't understand, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0312par0361	Mr. President, in favor of...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0313par0362	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0314par0363	He didn't pick up. He didn't pick up.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0315par0364	What motion?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0314par0365	Did you open it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0316par0366	Against...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0317par0367	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0318par0368	Mr. President, what we don't know... what are we going to say against? Let's know what it is first.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0319par0369	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0320par0370	Oh, he hasn't opened it yet!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0321par0371	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0322par0372	According to Article 63, we would like to discuss the application of Article 87.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0323par0373	Mr. Hamzacebi, will you agree to ask for a word with the group?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0324par0374	Mr. President, if you're having a formal discussion, we want it in favor.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0323par0375	Yes, I'm going to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0325par0376	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0326par0377	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0327par0378	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0328par0379	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0329par0380	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0330par0381	No, sir, very clearly... look, the promise is given in order of registration or request. If you want, I'll ask for the transcripts, and if you want, you can agree, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0329par0383	Ask for the transcripts, sir, and I'll have the reports.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0331par0384	Mr. President, there is no such procedure in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0332par0385	Ask for the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit07spe0333par0386	I'm taking a five-minute break. I'll ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0333par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 136th Union. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. I had opened up a formal debate about my position on the implementation of the motion for the new clause after Article 73 (a) of the proposal. Yes, I'm going to open a legal debate. After I've said it, only Mr. Vural has a request against him.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0011	How?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0333par0012	Only Mr. Vural has a request.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0335par0013	Sir, we're taking advantage now.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0014	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0336par0015	Wait a minute, there are others.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0016	Now, you know what? Let's give each party one.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0017	Sir, look, you're doing something wrong, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0018	What am I doing wrong?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0019	I beg of you. Look, I've been saying it since yesterday. If I want a debate about your attitude, naturally I'm the first speaker, I'm complaining about your attitude. I mean, I don't know how you interpret this Civil Code, I'm amazed!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0021	No one says otherwise, Mr. Hamzacebi. I don't understand why we can't get along here.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0022	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0023	You want to discuss the procedure, okay, you have the first word, we have no objection. We didn't say anything about it either, but we're doing it to determine your next ranking. There's no conflict here.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0024	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0025	I'm not saying anything against what you say here.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0334par0026	Mr. President, your statement is only requested by Oktay Vural. Yesterday, you said I didn't have a request, and when I didn't make such a statement today...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0028	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm reading the report, I'm reporting the report. But I'd like you to have a proper discussion. After I've said: Mr. President, in favor of... Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) ▪ Lehte... Engin Altay (Sinop) hasn't opened...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0338par0032	Mr. Kamer Young is demanding a word against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0033	I'll read the report: ▪ Camera Young (Tunceli) ▪ What motion? Have you opened the Engin Altay (Sinop) Mr. President? Hilmi Bilgin (Sivas) ▪ Against... Mr. President, against what we don't know... what do we take the stand for? Oktay Vural (Izmir) ▪ Against him. Engin Altay (Sinop), you haven't opened it yet! Free Private (Manisa) ▪ Against him. I'm reading the report, Mr. Hamzacebi. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0339par0042	He wanted it in favor of Free Private.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0340par0043	Mr. President, you need to read it after you open the discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0044	And I'm just saying, it's your word, you asked for an argument, and then I say we give four parties one, and we throw three other parties one.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0340par0045	But you haven't even opened the discussion yet, Mr. President. Please read the following after the discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0046	You want it against you, Mr. Vural has a demand against you. Let's give it to Mr. Elitaş's other party in favor of Peace and Democracy. So if there's anything else I can do, I'll do it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0341par0047	And I asked for a word against that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0337par0048	I'm starting a formal debate. Mr. Hamzacebi, here it is, against you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0342par0052	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, let me say this is a matter of the President's management procedure, and we have not yet made a motion. This is what he says: After the proposal has been read, you can argue contrary to the Constitution or other claims. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to remind you that this House, this General Assembly, is run by the other legislatures. I'm having trouble being the Republican People's Party's Deputy Director of the Group, and only you. I don't live in Mr. Mehmet Sütık. I don't live in Mr. Coral Akşener. I don't live in Mr. Güldal Mumcu. During the previous Parliamentary period, there were other highly valued parliamentary deputies from the Justice and Development Party who ran this General Assembly, and I had no problem with any of them, but for some reason, I'm having a constant problem with you. For example, I'm the Deputy Group President of the Main Opposition Party, and before I finish my sentences, you interrupt my sentence, you're doing the wrong thing in order to establish authority. Authority is not allowed to shut up the other person. Authority is granted to the Civil Law, by acting according to the rules, by law, by tolerance of the other side when necessary. Anyone can do that here, but I'm sorry to say, you forced me to express it, and you can't. You stop talking all the time, the more you stop talking, the longer it gets, the longer it gets. Maybe if you tolerate it, if you're patient, or if the person in front of you talks for a few more minutes, the problems will be solved. But I'm afraid the problems aren't solved, they're growing exponentially, as if you've been able to maintain authority by shutting down the person in front of you, which leads to tension in Parliament. You caused a tension here yesterday, or rather, in violation of the Civil Code, by violating the Civil Code. You've signed a lawless act here before, and you know it. I can give you different examples of me, but we don't have time here, so I won't. And you know very well what those samples are. Mr. President, please stop this administration and language. If we're going to have a proper legal discussion here, if everyone can express their views freely, you'll allow it, by implementing the Civil Code, I invite you to observe justice and the Civil Code. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0343par0059	Thank you. Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP, who has asked for a favour on my position.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0344par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. What we're discussing is an assessment of the statement made by the President of a motion on the new clause violation of a motion we've submitted. The presidency has made its statement, the 87th Article of the Interior Charter: "A new clause will be discussed on proposals which are not in the commission text, but in order to replace a clause which is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and which the commission is most likely to participate in.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0345par0064	That's not what we're discussing, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0344par0065	It's been given. The president read it, and he said, "That's how I do this new substance thing. On the matter of substance abuse, if there is a majority in the commission, we will begin negotiations. • How will we begin negotiations? We're going to look into the matter of the meeting of the law.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0345par0066	Sir, we're not discussing this. That's not the point of the formal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0344par0067	Look, dear lawmakers, if we invite everyone to comply with the Civil Code, I read the first sentence of Article 60 of the Civil Charter: No one can speak without pre-registering his name or taking a word from the President during the session. But I'm afraid that anyone standing up in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't interrupt me, you have to listen to me.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0346par0068	That's what you do. You go up there all the time, you talk.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0344par0069	Dear friends, if we obey the Interior Charter, look at the first joke of the 60th Amendment of the Civil Code. No one who does not register the name of the Minister or receives the word of the President during the session can speak. There is also a procedure: If there is someone there who says that he has a very short commitment to the Constitution during the talks, he will press the demand button by entering the system, and the President will say, "Do you have a brief explanation on the matter?" If he's sitting there with a majority of commissions right now, he'll be considered a new substance abuse. The only thing Turkey's Grand National Assembly President or any member of parliament can do during the talks is to submit a motion claiming that this text is contrary to the Constitution under Article 84. According to Article 84, in the negotiations of the bill and the proposal, the amendment proposals are discussed above all else, first and foremost. If the General Assembly on this is accepted by others in violation of the Constitution, it is already disputed that it is unconstitutional, but Turkey's Grand National Assembly cannot replace the Constitutional Court with its claims during the talks. Right now, the opposition wants the Presidential Court not to discuss it by replacing itself with the Supreme Court. If we consider everything here to be contrary to the Constitution or not... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There'll be nothing left to go to the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0347par0072	You can't make a law against the Constitution anyway.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0344par0073	At the time, if this clause is considered a violation of the Constitutional Court, it is the way of the Constitutional Court. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0347par0075	The Constitutional Court is canceling the mistake you made here without knowing, not knowing what you did on purpose.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0348par0076	Yes, thank you. Oktay Vural, Izmir MP who has made a promise against my conviction.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0349par0079	Thank you. Mr. President, these arguments are actually the result of a button that's been buttoned wrong. This kind of legislation, this kind of motion, the rights of the nation, the law, you're going to lift your finger here, and we're going to evaluate it, but that's not the way it works, it's not the law. We're really going to think about it with the relevant parties, but with the midnight motions, especially bringing a motion from the Commission to the Commission... you shouldn't be sitting there as a commission. Well, we've already filed this motion, and we've already removed it from the proposal text. Now, with your will in the Commission, it's wrong to ask for it to be added back here. In that way, it's terribly wrong. You have to be loyal to the Commission report, you have to be loyal to the Commission text. Now that you've got it out there, the commission says: I don't want it. It's not right to want what you don't want here now, it's not right, it's not acceptable.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0350par0081	The General Assembly's will.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0349par0082	They're not gonna sit there. The General Assembly says it's an offer, of course, but if you pay attention to the commission text there, I appreciate it when there's not even much of it. Because he has to be loyal to the commission text. Therefore, it is unacceptable for you to put back a will from the Commission's text here, in this regard, that this behavior of the Commission is unacceptable.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0351par0083	It's either wrong or it's wrong!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0349par0084	On the other hand, Mr. President, it's actually about your attitude, of course, there's a pressure, so obviously we need to express it. Mr. President, in some of the polls, despite the ruling party's... well, he's come forward, but while a group of vice presidents are making an appeal, it's important to get rid of the pressure, to think a little bit more calmly. In this regard, this coming proposal -- this is the matter of the bill or the proposal -- which is not in the commission text, but is very closely related to the bill or the proposal -- is now, what does it have to do with, what does it have to do with, what does it have to do with?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0352par0086	Article 10 of 6004.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0349par0087	Yeah, it's about the law, but what's it got to do with it? It's in the law, but it's in the matter, it's in the matter, it's in another article, it's not related to it, it's not connected to it, it's not connected to it. There's no way to discuss a non-existent substance here. It says here: "You will seek the alliance of the Empire." "There is no relationship with the offer... which is very closely related to the proposal." There's no way we can discuss an offer here, a proposal that's unrelated. In two points, the commission cannot be present there, nor can it say, "The Commission has rejected a text, and the Commission has rejected it." And second of all, I just said, it's not relevant, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...this discussion is about your attitude. I think it would be more appropriate to take a little more calmly and give you the opportunity to get as many views as possible on these issues as possible. In this regard, I asked for a word against your attitude. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0353par0092	Thank you. Yes, my position is in favor of Idris Baluken, Bingol MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0354par0094	In favor of Kerhen, Mr. President, in favor of Kerhen.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0355par0095	Let him explain himself.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0354par0096	He's gonna talk in his favor!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0356par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. I will speak against your attitude, although I am in favor of it in a manner of speaking. Since yesterday, many things have actually been done here in violation of the Civil Code. In fact, the 87th article of the Civil Code is clearly highlighted here. For example, there was the same situation in the motion that raised a debate about TMMOB yesterday, which sparked a lot of reactions to the public today. Article 87 states: "A new proposal of amendments that bring additional and change in the laws that are not the subject of the proposed bill or proposal is not included in the process. " Now, you can't open the motion here to discuss a proposal against the Civil Code. I mean, it's the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0357par0102	It opens in the next signature, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0356par0103	...if it's binding on both the presidential court and on behalf of all MPs, you have to be subject to it. He lacks a lot of things, he lacks a lot of things. Right now, there's work to be done, but until the new one comes out, we all have to work on it. Now, politically, you're doing the wrong thing. Look, the arrangement you made yesterday regarding this TMMOB is not discussed on the Commission's agenda, civil society is not aware of this motion you have brought, there is no debate on the General Assembly, there is no basis for partnership with the opposition. It's in the form of a last-minute play, and at the end of the day when the opposition is distracted, it's totally inappropriate and unethical to bring something like this up. The current motion is the same, so if the content of this motion is rejected in the subcommittee, it is not right to bring it back here in the form of a motion. There is a conflict with the will of that Commission. So you have to have a problem as an AK PARTY group, associating with social parties, with the opposition. You must have a problem with adequate debates in the commissions on matters involving the entire community, and some issues being carried to the General Assembly in such a way. I don't know, I don't know why he's been running the same Deputy Speaker for a week. Of course, it's possible that it's so long, it's possible that it's a performance miscarriage. Therefore, Mr. President is unable to demonstrate enough initiative, willpower, in the absence of these violations of the Civil Code. Therefore, we would like to point out that we are against this attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0358par0106	Mr. President, sir, I'd like to make a statement to correct a matter. Regarding the Turkish Union of Architects and Engineers' Union motion yesterday, Mr. Bauken passed by at a moment when opposition was distracted in the General Assembly, if I hadn't heard correctly. He made such an assessment.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0356par0108	The General Assembly...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0358par0109	On the contrary, yesterday's motion was a three-and-a-half-hour meeting -- again the National Movement Party was here as a result of the struggle launched by the Republican People's Party. I believe, from the Peace and Democracy Party...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0356par0110	I said it in terms of the timing of his arrival.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0358par0111	Mr. Baluken may not have noticed it because there was no one here. The Republican People's Party was well aware of this motion and has fought well with the Republican People's Party Group. I present this to the attention of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0359par0112	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0356par0113	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0359par0114	Roger that, Mr. Baluken, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0356par0115	I mean, I didn't say that the opposition didn't create enough debate, but I criticized it as a time to bring it in. As a matter of fact, today, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we have tried to make a superior effort to correct this mistake with the relevant ministers, both with the Speaker of Parliament and with the group's deputy leaders. So, Mr. Group, the Vice President got it wrong.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0359par0116	Yes, thank you. Members of parliament, the proposal issued for the adoption of a new substance in accordance with the 478-line law proposal, which was held in accordance with Article 87 of the Constitution and Internal and the Charter.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0360par0118	Mr. President, that's why we didn't open the procedure discussion, no. Please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0361par0119	Not because of that, sir, but because of your attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0360par0120	No, that's why it didn't open.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0362par0121	Okay, sir, then there's no change in my attitude about what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0361par0122	No, it's about your attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0360par0123	It's about your attitude, sir. Look, you're giving me false information right now. That's why we didn't have an argument.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0362par0124	Let us bring you the minutes of the speakers that have come out: of Mr. Elitas, of Mr. Bauken, of Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0363par0125	It's about your attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0360par0126	Sir, look...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0364par0127	I said it in the end, and I expressed it in terms of your attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0365par0129	Yes, sir, yes, it's about my attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0366par0130	Mr. President, whether or not there's room for discussion is the issue...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0365par0131	Yes, there's no change in my opinion, Mr. Lawmakers. [[Continue]] Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill and proposal are the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be open to discussion as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has already attended.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0367par0139	It's got a lot to do with this, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0365par0140	According to the 91st Article of the Civil Charter, the meeting of the Commission to be discussed as a new clause will be open on the proposals which the commission has mostly participated in, and there may be a number of motions laid out in this article. For this reason, I will read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open it up as a new clause on the motion. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm having the motion read...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0368par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0143	Mr. President, you just said he had a very close connection. Can you give us that attention, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0365par0144	Sir, I've been approached by the Commission before...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0145	Sir?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0365par0146	The fact that he's been approached by the Commission before, he's been withdrawn from the law and here...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0147	Sir, since it's been taken... it's been withdrawn, it doesn't matter. It's about the General Assembly, first of all, it's related. You said. I'm asking you to explain this interest, how you created this disease. So it's not enough to say it's relevant, you have to call attention, and you have to express it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0370par0148	Mr. President, there's a reason.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0371par0149	Mr. President, that's the reason.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0150	Say this, say this...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0151	It's a matter of commission, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0152	Sir, you're the one who has to call attention, so I'm not the one looking for attention. You're the one who put it in the process, and you're gonna say it's about that! The 12th article is related to the employment of occupational officers, so it is relevant to the matter involved in the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0153	Let's make a promise to the Commissioner, let's hear it from the Commissioner.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0154	You'll appoint it, you'll tell me, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0373par0155	That's what he promises the commission.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0156	Let's hear from the Commissioner, yes.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0369par0157	It's yours to process, not the Commission's.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0373par0158	But he has to listen to the Commission as he listens to you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0159	Wait a second... The first joke (b) of Article 10 of Law on the Foundation and Tasks of State Department No. 6004, dated 7/7/2010, has been changed in the following way.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0374par0161	Yeah... it's about the occupational officers. Is this about the occupational officers? It's not.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0162	It's the State Department's Foundation and Missions, sir, and that's about the same thing, yes.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0374par0163	Sir, but the job...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0375par0164	Mr. President, item 10...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0165	And so far, sir, that's the procedure.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0374par0166	Mr. President, this is just about the occupational officers. It's not right for you to do that. Mr. President, and...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0168	I'm having the motion read: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0374par0170	One moment, Mr. President... one moment, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0171	Please, I mean... ▪ Seeing 478 S. Article 73 of the Numbered Law Proposal...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0374par0173	Mr. President, Mr. President, just a moment... Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0174	Please, Mr. Vural, I'm reading the motion, there's nothing I can do. We offer and propose the addition of the bell below to come after the bell, and the detection of other dams.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0376par0176	Mr. President, I asked for a promise from my position. Why don't you look at it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0177	You state your views on the motion. ▪Nurettin Caniklı Recep Special Ramadan Can Oğuz Khan Koksal Ercan Candan The second clause (d) of Article 6004 of the Law (a) was changed in the following way and added the following sentence to its third joke (a). Those appointed as ambassadors under Article 59 of the Law 657 and those assigned to the Ministry or other public institutions and other institutions may continue to work at the Ministry when they return to the centre, continue to use the ambassador's title during their duties in the ministry, and follow the same provisions as those assigned to the embassy from those assigned to the ministry, including those assigned to the executive staff. Those appointed as permanent representatives under Article 59 of Law No.657 and those assigned to the Ministry or other public institutions and other institutions may continue to work at the Ministry when they return to the centre, continue to use the ambassador's title during their duties in the ministry, and follow the same provisions as those assigned to the ministry as those assigned to the executive staff, and they are entitled to the same rights. "
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0377par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0372par0186	Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0377par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0378par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0379par0189	You don't see it in particular, Mr. President. It's not like you're looking at it on purpose. Don't be nervous, please!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0377par0192	Mr. President, I've just had a formal discussion about your position in conducting the hearing. Now, this clause, because of the content of the motion you've read, I'm going to bring to your attention one thing. Please do not violate the Civil Code. The 87th Article of the Civil Charter of the Civil Code organises how to implement any motion that is unrelated to the proposed bill or proposal. Now, look, the proposal that we're talking about is that the State Department proposes a change in the Agency's Law, but in reality it violates the Law 657, and a principle that has been laid on behalf of government officials in Article 128 of the Constitution. The Constitution is a law. According to Article 128 of our Constitution, the main and permanent duties required by public services, officers and other public officials, which the state, state, public economic initiatives and other public legal persons are obliged to conduct on the basis of general administration. The qualifications of officers and other public officials are regulated by law, their appointment, their mandate and their authority. The law that regulates this is the Law of State Officers No. 657. The State Officers' Law organises how all officers will enter the office, including foreign occupational officers. In Turkey, entrance to public service is always a test, no entry into civil service in any way without a test.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0380par0194	If you read 657/59, Mr. President is there.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0377par0195	Now, sir, someone's talking, but I advise them to read Law 657. If they don't have some information, I can help them. The Law of State Officers No. 657 contains a clause titled "Istinciplinary Officers." For example, the embassy is an exceptional service. A government can appoint an ambassador to a person who is not a civil servant, which is his jurisdiction. A businessman can appoint ambassadors to another country, and he may feel that he can do much better in that ministry there, which is natural. He'll transfer him there, but when he gets back, his mission is over; that's the rule. This article rules out the principle of the exam, which was passed by Law 657, by allowing this individual to continue his state office after his return. Therefore, Law 657 is an exception. This arrangement must be made in Law 657. There is no change in Law 657 here, and the State Department Agency Law is not the place for this. Therefore, there is an open violation of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which constitutes a violation of the Constitution, which you cannot carry out.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0381par0202	In Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 14/7/1965, under Article 36 of the Law of State Officers No. 657, it continues. There's a change in Law 657 here, and there's a change in this thing.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0382par0203	That's a job assignment. That's a job assignment. This has nothing to do with being assigned to the office.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0377par0204	Mr. President, this is a amendment to Law 6004.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0383par0205	No, sir, the amendment to Law 6004...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0384par0206	Sir, you said 6657, that's what I'm saying, there's a change in Law 657.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0377par0207	Sir, isn't this proposal related to Law 6004? I also stated that Article 128 of the Constitution is being ruled out, and you can't process it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0385par0208	He's on the books, over.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0386par0209	You can't file this motion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0387par0210	Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0388par0211	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0387par0212	Since Salt's mostly in attendance, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0389par0213	For my own sake.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0390par0214	For my own sake.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0391par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0392par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0391par0217	Mr. President, we're having a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0392par0218	We're starting a formal debate, a legal debate...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0391par0219	Mr. President, you've misprocessed...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0392par0220	We're having a formal discussion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0393par0221	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0394par0222	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0395par0223	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Osman Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0396par0224	Mr. President, we're having a formal discussion, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0395par0225	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm on the item, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0397par0226	There's been a discussion of the procedure, Mr. President, of what?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0398par0227	Mr. President, we're having a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0399par0228	Mr. President, you have no right!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0400par0229	You state your views on the matter, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0398par0230	Mr. President, we're having a formal discussion. Against...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0401par0231	Mr. President, what's the procedure here? We've moved on to matter negotiations.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0400par0232	Mr. Korutuk...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0398par0233	Mr. President, we're having a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0400par0234	Sir, what are we arguing about? We talked.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0402par0235	You have no right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0398par0236	No, you have to open it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0400par0237	I've made contact with the matter, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0398par0238	No, sir, you have to open it. That's not gonna happen, honey. What the hell is this? Is that possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0400par0239	What's it gonna be like, Mr. Vural, forced action?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0403par0240	Mr. President, the discussion of the procedure has passed.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0404par0241	Mr. President, you can't conduct a session at your own pleasure!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0405par0242	You'll open it! You're going to open it, sir. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0406par0243	The way they've been seeing each other so far...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0405par0244	You'll open it! You're going to open the motion for processing, sir!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0407par0245	Mr. President, he can't give instructions.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0406par0246	I swear to God, this isn't an event where you raise your voices, so I'll tell you that. Nothing will happen by force.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0405par0247	You'll open it! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0408par0248	Mr. President, you're going to have to open up the legal debate!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0409par0249	The Civil Law binds you, and you cannot see yourself above the Civil Law!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0410par0250	I'm not doing anything different, I'm doing what applications are so far.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0411par0251	Mr. President, you weren't assigned to stage a coup!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0410par0252	Sir, we don't discuss procedure 10 times. We've had a formal debate, we've had every party...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0411par0253	Sir, you will open it! The commission's procedure is against procedure.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0412par0254	Mr. President, you're going to have to open up the legal debate. Article 63 is open, you have no right to appreciate it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0411par0255	If someone's forcing you to do this, tell them no! If someone's pushing you, say no! You're going to start a formal debate!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0413par0256	Mr. President, don't worry, we'll cover you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0414par0257	Mr. Vural, you can say all that to the ruling party's group. I'm not here to...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0411par0258	I'm talking to you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0414par0259	No, no, sir, you have no right to say it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0415par0260	Mr. President, we're having a formal discussion about your attitude!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0416par0261	You will rule in groups, and you cannot violate the Civil Law.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0417par0262	Mr. President, we've started the matter negotiations, so no more procedural debates.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0418par0263	Mr. President, I'm starting a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0419par0264	Mr. President, they want to discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0420par0265	According to Article 63, you must open a legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0421par0266	Mr. Kurkurk, please come in.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0422par0267	Mr. President, according to Article 63, you do not appreciate whether or not you will open a formal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0421par0268	Sir, we've discussed the procedure, you've said your piece. We're going to have a new debate over every procedure?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0422par0269	You have to meet the demand.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0421par0270	Please... then I promised you places, so... we're talking about this side for an hour.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0422par0271	Mr. President, you have no right, Article 63 is open.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0423par0272	Sir, you have no right!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0421par0273	I have no right to what, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0423par0274	You have no right!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0421par0275	We've been asked to discuss the procedure and I've opened it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0423par0276	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0424par0277	This is something else.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0423par0278	You've brought up your attitude, your attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0425par0279	What did I open it about? You've told me everything, I can get the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0423par0280	Due to the procedure he's doing now, I'm starting a procedural debate on participation.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0425par0281	We've expressed our views before.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0426par0282	Mr. President, we've started the negotiations, and they're still in session.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0427par0283	Mr. President, you're going to have to open up the legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0425par0284	There's been a discussion on the matter, sir. Mr. Kurkurk, please come in.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0427par0286	You'll have to open up the legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0425par0287	Mr. Groverk, I promise the next speaker if you don't come. Please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0427par0288	Look, you're gonna have to open up the legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0428par0289	Mr. President, you have no right to pierce our rights.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0429par0290	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0428par0291	You're always creating tension.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0429par0292	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0430par0293	We just did it. It's about the procedure.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0431par0294	You can't just run the House!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0432par0295	You'll have to open up the legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0433par0296	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0434par0298	Why don't you leave in five minutes? Why don't you leave in ten minutes?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0433par0299	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0435par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0436par0301	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... [[From CHP and MHP rows to row caps, noise]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0435par0304	You have no right!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0437par0305	You didn't listen to us...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0436par0306	At this moment, the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0437par0308	And thou shalt take into thine hand the ordinance of the law, and thou shalt not know the ordinance of the law. You're talking your mind!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0438par0309	Shame, shame! Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0439par0310	Call off the hearing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0440par0311	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0441par0312	...in a coup attempt against the implementation of the Deputy President of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[From CHP and MHP rows to row caps, noise]] Look, valued lawmakers, the arrangement we're trying to change is an arrangement that we've added to Article 12 in accordance with the regulation of Article 10 of Law No. 6004.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0442par0316	Mr. President, keep hitting me with the mallet. Mr. President, help us with the hammer! Shoot, shoot!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0441par0317	In this regard, Article 59 of Law 657 organises exceptional staffs. What are the exceptions in Article 59? Exceptional staff: Special Chiefs of Staff of the Prime Ministry, Ministrys, Chief of Staff, Governors, Embassies and Foreign Mission Representatives are considered under Article 559 of Law 657.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0443par0319	Bravo, you're still doing it! You're still doing it, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0441par0320	The work that's been done here, who has ever been ambassador... [[From CHP and MHP rows to row caps, noise]] Again, during the Republican People's Party period...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0444par0324	The strap's loose, the strap's loose! You broke the strap, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0445par0325	There's no such thing as a disgrace! They're even running away from a legal debate! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0444par0327	What a mess you've made of this coven! You're laughing at the way you're gonna cry!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit08spe0446par0328	There's opposition in parliament!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0447par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 136th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0448par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0447par0005	One moment, Mr. Altay... Mr. Elitaş spoke on the motion that the proposal was launched as a new clause after the 73th Article (aa) of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0449par0010	Mr. President, there's just been a very serious incident here about your conduct of the General Assembly. You asked the Commission if the two opposition parties' deputy leader was in the middle of the line when he was trying to tell the Presidential Court if he had joined the motion. You've had a sign vote before, once again, when you were on the stand with a preacher. These are not things that have been, have been, and have been, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is normal for the ruling party and opposition parties to pick on each other here, to quarrel, but it is not one of the examples in our history of Parliament when the Council of Presidents engages with the opposition party, the opposition group. On the other hand, Mr. President -- it's trendy tonight -- everyone's got a Civil Charter, they're reading -- I remind you to read the 68th Amendment of the Civil Code, please, one more time. I find it unacceptable for your neutrality to support the attempt of the ruling party clerk to continue his speech by not reacting to a reaction from all the opposition, as I paused in much lower-profile noise here, and I don't believe you're ruling objectively.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0450par0012	Is it the right move to silence the preacher?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0449par0013	On the other hand, according to Article 63 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, a group of vice presidents, Velev, which, let alone the members of the group, you must meet when any member of parliament makes a request according to Article 63. Especially to ignore the request of two political party vice presidents is to dynamite this parliament's positive climate, its atmosphere. You'll have to open a discussion of your attitude immediately and immediately. Otherwise, I don't think it's possible for this Parliament to work. Because as the Presidential Court, you have insulted both political parties. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0451par0016	There is no insult, Mr. Altay. I'm opening it right now and immediately about my attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0452par0017	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0453par0018	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0454par0019	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0455par0020	Wait a second...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0456par0021	Against...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0457par0022	Against...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0458par0023	Against...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0459par0024	One second, sir, one second... Who wants to speak against you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0460par0026	Naturally, I requested it, and I'm handing it over to Mr. Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0459par0027	Okay, Mr. Altay is against you. Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0461par0029	Against...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0459par0030	Against you. Mr. Baluken? Sir, we're in accordance with the Civil Code, which is controversial.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0462par0033	Let's look at the reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0463par0034	I wanted it in favor.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0459par0035	Mr. Elitaş, in favor. I promise you one for each party.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0463par0037	Mr. President, where is this written in the Civil Code?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0459par0038	I've committed to the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0464par0039	Justice, justice, mercy, conscience...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0465par0040	Elitaş? Do you have them?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0459par0041	Yes, it's Mr Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0045	My dear lawmakers, what our Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman friend here means is to invite you to the Civil Code, but what is essential in the Turkish Grand National Assembly is respect for the bench. I've been summoned by my Deputy Speaker, and they've asked for word from the groups. As the Republican People's Party's group in charge of this clause, I'm guessing the Deputy Speaker didn't bring it up himself. Someone from the Republican People's Party has gone, and on behalf of our group -- which I need someone in charge to say -- has made a statement saying, Even so, you can't discuss it. For once, it's absurd. You're going there, I'm starting a new discussion on this substance abuse. You say, "Ooh, you're giving me the name of a congressman." I don't suppose you and the congressman had an eye-to-eye deal there?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0467par0046	Sir, they've already picked it up. They've already come and taken it, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0047	You called, and on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, this person will speak. You said, and you called him.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0467par0048	No, no, no. They've already come and taken it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0049	When that person didn't come here to talk, you called whoever was next in line. So I came here, and I came at your invitation.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0468par0050	What you're saying is not true.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0051	But it's probably not a democratic rule, it's not a democratic policy for lawmakers from the opposition party to step in line from the moment the speaker on the stand starts speaking.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0469par0052	The attitude is not on the stand, it's on the Presidential Court. The attitude is not to the stand, it's to the Court, and you know it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0053	But to stop a congressman from speaking here on the stand... I'll finish my speech, and if you have an attitude about the Council of Parliament, you'll open up his legal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0470par0054	Well, we're already hungry, so we're yelling because he didn't open it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0055	If you're calling it "multiple immunity," if you're referring to freedom on the wing, your work against me is an insult to a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, an insult to Parliament. Here, in a speech by a former deputy speaker of parliament, although I have opened a formal debate -- I say your name, Mr. Mumcu -- he called a member of the Republican People's Party to come here. Even though I had an argument, you shouted from those times, and you said, "Show respect. Do so after the speech of the MP who came to the bench -- although I have opened a legal debate -- is finished. You said. Not in a double standard democracy.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0471par0057	It's a mistake to go to the stand when two of your colleagues are here. Two of your colleagues were here, and it's wrong for you to go on that stand.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0058	I'm on the stand here, you'll hear me talk. And just to recap, you wouldn't have given the speaker there if you had stated that you were determined and asserted that it was against substance abuse.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0472par0059	Are we going to ask you if we should give a speaker?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0060	As a matter of fact, our friends from the Republican People's Party who went there have applied for a personal word. With a petition in hand, they applied for a word in favor and against the person.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0473par0061	We're making precautions because we don't trust you. We don't trust you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0062	So the Republican People's Party's corporate personality, the group's vice president, has accepted this clause.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0474par0063	No way!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0473par0064	There's no such thing. He's making up his own rules.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0065	Despite your acceptance, you still have a different approach to this, if you call it invisible.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0475par0066	It's called the AKP trap, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0466par0067	The position of the presidency is correct because negotiations have begun. He wishes to continue, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0476par0069	Thank you. Against Akif Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0477par0071	Mr. President, look, I want to talk about my place here. Isn't it on the screen in front of you? According to Article 60, I have entered the device, and I want to speak of my place.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0476par0072	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0477par0073	Don't you accept MP?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0476par0074	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0478par0075	Let him finish his speech, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0477par0076	I mean, I don't... look, I just got in my seat, look, it's burning all the time over there. According to the 60th article -- that's what it means to enter the system -- I want a very short word from my position.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0479par0077	How do you want to put it between a formal debate?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0480par0078	Mr. Young, we're having a formal discussion. Two in favor of the legal debate, two can be promised against it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0481par0079	Mr. President, at this time, there are no words for 60.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0482par0080	It has nothing to do with the legal debate. No, sir, it has nothing to do with the procedural debate.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0480par0081	Other than that, it's out of the question. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0083	Mr. President, I'm going to leave, but Mr. Kamer, according to the 60th article, there is also a request for a statement.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0480par0084	Sir, the procedure debate... he just asked for a formal debate. Please, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0086	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me remind Mr. President that if you're passing on your promise to me at the request of Mr. Engin Altay, you're wrong again, you're wrong again, you're wrong about the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0484par0087	Mr. Altay told me. Mr. Altay told Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0485par0088	If it is because of my request, I have given it, but if it is because of the request of Mr. Akif, then it is because of Mr. Akif Beyin.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0089	Mr. President, please, look...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0484par0090	Mr. Altay told me.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0091	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I just...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0484par0092	Mr. Altay told me...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0093	Wait a minute, Canicli, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0484par0094	Please, Mr. Altay told me.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0095	Hey Canikli, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0484par0096	It's a shame, but it's a shame...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0097	Then show me some respect, Mr. Canicli. I didn't want you to...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0484par0098	It's rude, please...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0099	Mr. President, please start my time again.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0486par0100	That's not a title.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0101	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0487par0102	Respect!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0103	Friends, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0488par0105	That's not a title.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0106	Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0488par0107	Please let him correct his statement, correct his speech; please warn him.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0483par0108	I always value the speech of Mr. Canikli, and I listen carefully. I made a statement with a joke, within the framework of a law. The thought of offending Mr. Canikli never crossed my mind, nor any congressman. Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister gave a speech today, and everyone has to calculate the public's reaction. He said, "Iftar has spoken at dinner, somewhere." After Mr. Prime Minister's speech, a machete citizen appeared on the streets again in Ankara, waving his machete around.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0489par0110	Let's see who comes out.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0490par0111	He could be the husband's nephew!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0491par0112	Mufti's nephew?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0492par0113	Every speech from the Prime Minister leads to tension in society. And every time the Deputy Speaker of the Council manages these sessions, it's causing a fight in the House. Mr. President, you're adjourned, your decision was not to engage in a formal debate. So, why did you open it? I mean, why did you open it?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0493par0115	Mr. Engin has requested a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0492par0116	If you're going to open it, is there any need to be so nervous, so controversial? So you have a message from the Justice and Development Party? I'm sorry to ask.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0493par0117	No, Mr. Engin requested a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0492par0118	Look, we're just standing up two groups of vice presidents, and you're putting aside the motion of two groups of vice presidents, and you're giving an example of anti-democracy. You made a foreign policy enthusiast a minister, ruined the country, and Turkey became quarrelling with all its neighbours. We fight with Syria, we fight with Iraq, we have a frozen relationship with Azerbaijan, we fight with other countries.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0494par0120	Add Egypt, and Egypt.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0492par0121	Now, this foreign policy enthusiast, but who doesn't know foreign policy, who can't manage it, is also bringing in an arrangement that will screw up the Human Ministry, which will take some pocket dictators into the Ministry and employ them. Because he has that understanding, he's going to employ some small pocket dictators with him as bureaucrats at the Ministry, and he's going to destroy the Ministry. We want to prevent it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0495par0122	Nine pocket dictators were appointed during the CHP.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0492par0123	Dear MPs, the arrangement is against the Civil Code, and the position of the President is against it. I, Mr. Nevzat Pakdil. Mr. Cenap Gülpınar, and others who have been on behalf of the Justice and Development Party in the Presidential Court so far, thank you. I mean, we miss them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0496par0125	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0497par0126	Mr. President, you're tired, too. You're human. I can see you're tired from here. I'm worried about your health, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0496par0127	It's Mr. Baluken, Bingley MP who's asking for the favor.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0498par0128	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are in favor of you again, in a manner of speaking against the President's position.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0499par0129	It's against the law, Mr. Baluken!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0498par0130	Indeed, Mr. President's presence this evening, the position of running the House, has greatly increased the tension in the House, and therefore...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0500par0131	You're here with two people, talking.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0498par0132	...is an extremely wrong attitude. Since just now, two groups of vice presidents stand up and ask for a word, but Mr. Vice President, this group ignores the vice presidents. That's not the way to do it. So, the 63rd article of the Civil Code has been made very clear that the debate on the procedure will be brought up before all work. Again, just now, Mr. Kamer Young, the Tunceli MP, has been courting, and he's being fair and square, because he's been asking for his position for about half an hour, but Mr. President, who runs the House, is ignoring it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0501par0134	On what? According to what clause?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0498par0135	That's not the way to do it. Look, we asked if the motion was relevant to the existing material; if it is not relevant, it is against the Civil Code. Now, Mr. President, without making a satisfactory statement there, without consulting the General Assembly on these objections and ignoring the objections here...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0502par0137	I did it, I did it!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0498par0138	If he pretends nothing happened, I'm sorry, it's not a neutral attitude, it's not an impartial government. It is clear here that in favor of the AK PARTY Group, you have established an attitude that will not disrupt the functioning of the AK PARTY Group. Thus, the wrong attitude, mismanagement style, from the beginning, raises the pressure of parliament, raises the tensions of lawmakers, and brings the debates of this Parliament into a dangerous orbit. Your attitude here is not correct. From now on, you have to listen to every member of parliament, every member of parliament, every member of the group, and respond to their demands. Otherwise, you will be constantly running an agenda in the Parliamentary General Assembly regarding the error of your attitude. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0503par0141	Thank you. This is Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0144	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we have our rights in this Civil Code. Therefore, our use of our rights in this Civil Code cannot be prevented by those who dwell in the hills, nor by those who hold power. In that respect, Mr. President, your attitude is an insult to our voting people, the will of the Nationalist Movement Party, in the face of a group of MPs who are charged with protecting the rights and rights of 5.5 million people to carry us here, to protect their rights, to protect their rights from the Civil Code. I'd like to invite you to apologize to the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0505par0147	It's done!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0148	Ben, the fact that you ignored my will while I was opening up a debate about internal regulations, about processing, about participation, proves that you're out of legitimacy. This attitude is illegitimate, not legal. I don't know who's pushing you, but we don't accept sanctions. I exercise my right from the Civil Law, and you cannot condemn it. Can you tell me by what authority do you deny me the right to participate, to participate, and to disagree? Who do you think you are? (EC PARTY RINGS) It's the Civil Code. According to 63, it says: "Is there room for discussion...?" Don't laugh like that! Don't laugh! That's not the smiley chair! Don't laugh!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0150	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0151	It's not the smiley chair.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0152	Behave yourself.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0153	Don't laugh.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0154	I'm supposed to be asking you to laugh!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0155	How can you laugh?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0156	I don't consult anyone.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0157	Who are you smiling at?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0159	Put your hand down!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0507par0160	Mr. President, this is an insult to the House Council.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0161	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0163	Look what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0507par0164	From there, the High Council has no right to insult the Court. He's a provocateur.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0165	You can't laugh.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0506par0166	Do you have that right?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0507par0167	He's a provocateur.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0504par0168	You can't laugh! You can't laugh with irony.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0507par0169	You're agitator there, not giving speeches. You went out there to be a provocateur.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0508par0170	You can't say that! You're the provocateur!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0509par0171	You can't call a group vice president that!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0507par0172	You've been doing all sorts of provocateurs all morning to stretch the coven!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0510par0173	What are you going to do? Are you going to beat him?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0511par0174	I laugh, I laugh at your stubbornness. What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0512par0175	You can't laugh with irony.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0511par0176	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0512par0177	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0511par0178	I'm laughing. Are you gonna tell me if I'm laughing?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0513par0179	He warned me three times, three times!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0514par0180	Duran's playing the man!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0515par0181	You can't talk to the Council Council like that.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0516par0182	Shut him up... shut him up...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0517par0183	Turn around and talk!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0515par0184	You're a provocateur.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0516par0185	Shut her up, shut her up, shut her up, shut her up, shut her up, shut her up, shut
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0518par0186	You're no more provocateurs!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0519par0187	There's all kinds of joy.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0520par0188	Shut up. You can't say that.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0521par0189	You're the one who needs to be silenced.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0522par0190	Your power won't shut you up.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0523par0191	It's you.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0521par0192	You're the one who needs to be silenced.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0523par0193	What do you mean it's you?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0524par0194	You're gonna set this up? I say, "Are you going to decide?" Everyone has to respect what they're up against.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0521par0195	Mr. President, he can't talk to the House Council like that here. He's a provocateur there.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0523par0196	You're doing it.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0521par0197	He's agitator there!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0525par0198	You can't call a group vice president that!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0523par0199	You're the provocateur.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0526par0200	Please continue your speech, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0525par0201	You're setting up the General Assembly, for fuck's sake!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0526par0202	It's over. He's done talking. I'll give you a minute, please.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0527par0204	Yes, according to Article 63, whether there is room for discussion or not, an invitation to work procedures is discussed above all else.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0528par0206	Mr. President, please apologize to the House Council.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0527par0207	Can you give me a heads-up?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0529par0208	Apologize!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0530par0209	Mr. President, I think they've forgotten what just happened to me! When I was talking on the stand, they hit the desks. There was a group of vice presidents talking there.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0527par0210	Mr. President, alert! Warning!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0530par0211	The group that spoke there was the vice president. What are you guys doing?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0531par0212	Apologize!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0532par0213	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0533par0214	He's going to apologize to the Council Council! He will apologize for his testimony!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0532par0215	Apologize!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0534par0216	Yes... Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0535par0217	He's not talking, sir. He's not talking.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0536par0218	You wait, you get off when you're out of time, sir. Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0534par0219	Yes, thank you...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0537par0220	Apologize! Apologize!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0534par0221	Mr. President, can you start my time with a minute?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0538par0223	How many times, Mr. Vural? Are we waiting for you here?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0534par0224	Sir?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0538par0226	How many times do I have to give you? I've given you time to talk.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0539par0227	You are of no use to both Turkey and the nation.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0540par0228	He will apologize for his testimony, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0541par0229	The people have seen what the MHP is!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0542par0230	You can't make fun of this House. Apologize.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0543par0231	Boo!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0544par0232	Why are you yelling? What are you going to do? Are you going to kill him?
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0545par0233	Yes, thank you. There is no change in attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0546par0235	You're running it so well!
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0547par0236	Mr. President, I asked for my position. No, look, according to the 60th article from my position...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0545par0237	Mr. Young, about the materials, after you...
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0547par0238	Mr. President, I'm a congressman. Look, you don't promise and you laugh and you turn me on. I'll insult you, sue you... that's not gonna happen. Now, you have to promise me according to Article 60.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0548par0240	No, you don't have to, Mr. President, he says he can.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0549par0241	Mr. Young, I've had a discussion twice. In the formal debate... [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Osman Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0550par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the proposal we're discussing is contrary to both our Civil Code and our Constitution, as all opposition parties in a very complex environment have just said by group chair. Other than that, the arrangement is important that Turkey will move to a point in foreign policy that will never come back, and it will be able to convince it to go. Look, our Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Hamzacebi, you've just made a foreign policy-seeker the Secretary of State, what have we become? He's unfortunately right there. The Secretary of State, an academic who should understand more than foreign policy -- maybe from his book -- he understands his theory, but look, he's been in power for four years, and in these four years, there's not a country left where we don't fight. It doesn't matter that we're fighting, but we don't listen anymore. Look, for the last time, there was a blow in Egypt, and we all opposed it. If there had not been a coup, Mursi, who had failed to bring democracy to Egypt with 30 million people who had stood up for democracy in Egypt, would have been able to meet at some point, but the coup cut it off. How do we know that? Because we've been through this as Turkey. Because we live, we know that the impacts don't solve problems, they save problems, they push them away. I'd like the State Department and Turkey to show their reaction to this coup that they're both against the coup, but not completely bridges with the current administration of that country, so we can share that experience with them. Look, we're a country that's been hit four times -- intervention and coup -- and that's why we all agree on the coups today. There's no such thing as a coup, there shouldn't be. We should have told the Egyptians, we can't. Look, they've called our ambassador, and in heavy terms, you're interfering with our business. Why? Because our position is incompatible with the diplomacy we hold. Now, in this bill that we've brought in, you're predicting sending out people who know diplomacy like this, ambassadors, and soon take them to headquarters, giving them control of Foreign Affairs, foreign policy. Should Turkey be worthy or not? It's a profession, like all professions. Now, would it be possible for someone who wasn't a soldier to come into division command? Can he take it and make it work? You're thinking of doing something like this. So consider our objections here. Our objections have been taken into consideration by the subcommittee, and the Plan and Budget Commission has taken into account. Some of the more serious materials were coming, and they withdrew this motion along with those materials. Can you imagine what it would be like for Turkey to be sent out the next day, tomorrow, when we're the general director of relations with Western Europe, the general director of the consulate of the Middle East, the country, the people whose embassies may be successful there, but whose foreign policy experience is limited to only three years and four years as ambassadors? There's no need to go too far, Mr. Secretary. The minister is an academic and a foreign affairs expert, but when he comes to practice, because he doesn't come from within this profession, because he doesn't know how the profession works because he doesn't know how it works, it's obvious that from the youngest age to the present age, he's brought our country into it. Today, there's not a country that really listens to us. I'd love to see where the foreign press sees Turkey, where it talks about it, read it. It wasn't like that at the time of your ministers again, because those ministers were working in a trust relationship with a professional organization. The State Department is the government's agency. The State Department always serves the governments, as long as those governments are in accordance with the Constitution, as long as they come with the law, and the ministers who benefit from that service bring the foreign policy of Turkey and the foreign ministry to the very right points. Now, you're going to make this foreign affairs agency something that they can't do. This new law, the proposed law, says that those assigned to the State Department, other institutions outside the State Department, and foreign ambassadors can take part in their central duties when they return to headquarters. • Friends, when an ambassador returns to headquarters, he cannot be deposed from the general manager. State Department Act 6004 shows that. Therefore, stay on the word appointed from outside. You can appoint an ambassador to a country because you see a merchant, a neurosurgeon, a mechanical engineer, and he'll succeed there, but can you imagine if he could manage a directorate when he returns? He's never worked before, never seen it, never knew what was done! If you just look at the Middle East General Directorate, if I start counting here, the Middle East General Directorate has Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, Israel, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Africa, the Arab Union, and many other countries, all of which will ask for instructions. This layman will have to respond to these instructions. Can you afford a place like this? This law brings it. The law is against the Constitution since it has cut short the need for the examination to become a civil servant at this point -- as Mr. Hamzacebi said. If you bring this law, we will appeal to the Constitutional Court, no doubt, but would it be appropriate for the high-profile lawmakers, with a large number of lawyers, to approve such a law and then return it from the Constitutional Court? Do you think Mr. President, who made a successful Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Turkey, is happy with this law? I know it wasn't me. Dear friends, when you make such laws, not just the needs of the day... but you will bring someone on a mission, so let me change the law for him. This Turkey will continue, you will be present today, you will be absent tomorrow, someone else will come, maybe we will come, we will come, we will pass, someone else will come. There's no need to laugh, you'll see. That's always been the way the country goes, ten years is a lot for power. There is no more than ten years of power in any other part of the world, and neither will you, so don't be surprised. And don't be surprised, but we will take away all that you have done. They're being graded, they're being kept, we'll fix it. You're putting us in a tough spot, we're gonna get very tired fixing this. Come on, don't tire us out yet, don't bother us with this. But, other than keeping us out of this, don't hurt the country, folks. This is indeed a matter that will cause a great deal of damage to the country, which will seriously affect the foreign relations of the country after that. I don't know who's going to be brought in with this, who's going to be where, what academic or what businessman is going to take their position, but I'm sure I see someone behind it. Find something else to think about. Don't go into things like this that will destroy the state. Look, the State Department Agency Act is one of the first laws made by the Republic of Turkey. Shortly after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, four years later, one of the first laws adopted in 1927, the Law of the Foreign Minister, the Law of the Officer of Foreign Affairs, and the fact that the law of that agency is true, is very carefully cared for and cared for, is that Turkey was always in a respectable, advanced position until our last Foreign Minister, Mr. Davutoglu, was in office. In order to help this position continue forward, to avoid violating the Constitution, to break the Civil Code, take back this motion by applying the Commission's method of doing so, and withdraw it. I don't think you should make that big mistake. You'll all have a guilty conscience later, and none of you will ever doubt it, my friends. With these thoughts, I invite you to reconsider this late at night and pay all your respects.
tbmm-2013-07-10sit09spe0551par0268	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
