tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0002par0003	I swear there isn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0003par0004	Where do you have it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0001par0005	Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0002par0006	I'm a man who truly believes in the President's legal understanding...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0001par0007	I counted you, too.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0002par0008	...but I really don't.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0001par0009	Mr. Tanal, I've counted you. Not just the power, but the opposition. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The third round includes the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the President of the Afet and Emergency Management, the President of Dianet Affairs, the Chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Foreign Turks and Association of Relatives, the Undersecretary of Treasury, Banking Editing and Control and Capital Market budgets and precise accounts, and the budget of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey. (x) 506 and 507 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Cetves are added to the 27th Constabulary of the Union, dated 10/12/2013. 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 2) The National Management Account for 2012 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives in 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the third round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the groups: Celal Dinçer, Haluk Eyidoğan, Levent Gök, İhsan Özkes, Haluk Ahmet Silver, Aydın Ayan Ayyadim; Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Atila Kaya, Reşat Beşal, Sumer Oral; Nursel Aydoğan, Nazmi Gür, Altan Tan for the Party of Peace and Democracy. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party, Zeynep Adı, Burhan Kayaturk, Mustafa Şahin, Mehmet Emin Dindar, Hasan Karal, Fatosh Gürkan, İsmail Safi, Tülay Kayarca, Mustafa Baloğlu, Mehmet Mush, Ahmet Yeni. As individuals, Ahmet Salih Dal will not be afraid, and he will be against him. Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0004par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the budget of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. I salute your high council. In 2010, the Undersecretary was established under the Ministry of Interior to co-ordinate between the institutions and organisations fighting terrorism, and a year later, it was linked to the Prime Minister's office. The Undersecretary, established to determine policy and strategies related to the fight against terrorism, co-ordinate between institutions, rented a building at Ankara's centre as the first act, for ten years with over $2m per year, and then spent billions of dollars on this building he rented. It's been a long time since he's been formed, but he still can't complete the unit he needs to set up as an intelligence and evaluation center. Some publications have been made, research has been conducted, and meetings have been held by the Undersecretary. And I was wondering, what activities did he do, the Undersecretary? The European Court of Human Rights has translated the Council of Europe's publication on Anti-Terrorism and Human Rights. The Prime Minister's first statement was published in a book called the "Silence Revolution" in Turkey from 2002-2012, whose name appears to have been quoted from the election declaration of the late Bkent Ecevit. Together with the Council of Europe, they held meetings with the National and International Co-ordination Board in Anti-Terrorism. And they've provided logistical support services that they need as long as the council of intelligent people we all know so well is on duty. The most interesting act of this Undersecretary is that the official website of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, which is not mentioned in any way -- if anything -- has been related -- has been transformed into a promotional website under the name of the AKP government, where the regulations of the laws are ranked one by one. What was the result of these studies? The result is a huge zero. I mean, they've been very successful with their water tattoo activity in the air. The more you see these studies, the more you think about whether this Undersecretary should offer to change the name of the Undersecretary's name to the continuation and introduction! Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's take a look at what happened in our country when this Undersecretary was promoting the AKP. Our citizens who wanted to exercise their democratic rights due to the Travel Park have been subjected to extreme violence, injured, injured, lost their lives. The public's right to protest has been tried to avoid indiscriminately. Our ministers show lots of pictures and graphics on this bench, displaying their work. Now I'd like to show you a few different works of AKP's advanced democracy. This picture belongs to Hakan Yaman. He went home from work in Sandzaktepe, Istanbul, and wanted to pick up his car from the parking lot. This is what it used to be, and this is what it was after the violence. This picture belongs to Hülya Aslan, who went home from his work in Yeniborn, Istanbul, and this is after the violence.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0005par0063	You look so happy about all this.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0004par0064	This picture belongs to 34 of our citizens, whom we all know very well, who were bombed by airplanes and lost their lives due to false intelligence in Uludere. And because of that attitude of yours, our world's human rights report has dropped three steps from one year ago to 78, dear friends. Now, it's a pity that our citizens in the world have also been declared guilty in public, who have been harmed by this violence, who have died, who have been injured, who have lost their eyes. Because, despite all this disproportionate violence, you've written the saga of heroism. We have a Prime Minister who praises them. Civilized countries don't understand such heroics. They interpret such actions as dictatorial, ugly acts, not heroic. Mr. President, good lawmakers, this government's safety concept is very wrong. In a country with such a young population, pressing and beating on young people should not be a safety concept. The general approach of security forces on the street is to surround the rights of the workers, farmers, environmentalists, men, families, children, if they want their rights in democratic ways, if they are more upright, to intervene with clubs, gas, and different toxic chemicals, then judge them with 18-year sentences. It's a matter of not being able to analyze things correctly and not being able to direct things right. But now that you've gotten used to it, you've been able to describe the anti-government and coupger's label to anyone who's ever expressed their problems to anyone who's opposed.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0006par0067	Tell me about the attacks on the police.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0004par0068	Now, is this democratization, is this human rights, is this the advanced democracy? Of course not. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you're aware of this, but your power has made this a fundamental reflex. And no one has the plague? There's a huge plague on this one, and the biggest share of that is the Prime Minister's responsibility, who no doubt says that I don't take out violent, criminal, public-insulting, threatening, insulting governors. Now, I'm asking you: while all foreign government officials have criticised the indiscriminate violence of our security forces, our Undersecretary of Public Order and Security hasn't been shut down, why? Aren't the dead, the wounded, the disabled part of this community? What's done is wrong. Those who want to exercise their democratic rights should be more moderate. Why didn't you say so? Didn't you read the book Anti-Terror Rights and Human Rights that you yourself translated into Turkish? Why didn't you speak to the dangerous Travel Report of Turkey's Statistical Agency, which has prepared and published, as if there are millions of people distinguishing people according to their sects, and to its survey of absurd questions aimed at separating people from Alevi-Sunni, public security and country integrity; to the efforts of Izmir Police to tag Kurdish and Alevi students; to divide and alter our citizens; to create problems for the public order of our country, which are immediately spread uncontrollably throughout our country? Mr. President, lawmakers, this institution, created with huge obligations, which cannot perform any important activities for the institution's purpose, has become a functionless, a promotional unit of power, as if it had given birth to a mountain rat. In recent years, the budget has been spent on advertising the AKP. This year's budget of around 21 million will also be spent promoting AKP power, which is a burden for the nation, which is unfair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope the Undersecretary will do a productive work in 2014, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0007par0074	Thank you. Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP, your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0008par0077	Mr. President, I would like to make a statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the AFAD budget, which is the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management Council within the framework of the budget bill for 2014. Using my nation's budget rights to me, I have been prevented by the government and the Supreme Court to determine whether or not the taxes paid by our citizens are being spent in accordance with the way they've been paid. I start by protesting this situation. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the disasters we've experienced so far require the establishment of a new and integrated disaster management system in Turkey. However, a modern risk of management and intervention has yet to dry up. After seven years of waiting, the government established the President of Afet and Emergency Management (AFAD) with Act 5902 in 2009. However, the AFAD remains unaware of international developments in reducing disaster risks, as well as the content and general attributes of its law. We're going to do it this time. The government is still trying to establish disaster management in our country through trial and error. The government must now realize that there will be no disaster management, just by handing out help and focusing on intervention -- which they can't do properly. In the 11th year of power, at a meeting on 1 February 2013, Mr. Minister Bashir Atalay was not sufficient in pre-fact preparation, awareness, awareness. We will strengthen him this term. He has said, and he has expressed his inadequacies in this sentence. So how much money do they spend on the 2014 budget to create that awareness? One percent of the budget. From the minister's confession, it seems the risk reduction situation is even worse. See, the AFAD 2014 budget offer is 840 million TL. Unfortunately, the chairman of the Planning and Damage Reduction Agency is 9 per cent of the budget, but the share assigned to post disaster intervention and recovery is 40 per cent of the budget. I mean, the budget isn't about risk reduction, it's about intervention. What, though, is the human drama of Van and Ercish, despite his understanding of so much money being split for intervention and healing? It's been twenty-six months since the Van earthquake. There are still 120 families out there who have to live in containers. It was minus 10 degrees out there last night. Leave the families to the hosteryners. It's been called a hundred and seven days. Electricity in the containers in the van, electricity and water in the containers in Ercish. Kids can't go to school, health problems are on the fritz. Now, I will tell you about our Rabia, Rabia the Vanite. He says I have three children, Rabia of Van. I didn't get the TOKI housing. For seven months, I stayed in a place that was not even the size of one room, which was called the house of Israel. They don't register our children in schools here. My oldest daughter has epilepsy after the earthquake, she's never been sick before, she's out passing out. My children, most of all, my eldest daughter, wake up at night crying. I didn't get any help from the government, my neighbors are helping me. My children are questioning our situation, our situation, as to why this is so? This is happening because we do not have a home. Why are not all the resources and assistance given to refugees in the container camps where the Syrians reside given to the refugees, to these earthquake survivors, to these people, to these Rabias? See, international disaster policy has changed since 1990. This new policy prioritizes efforts to determine and reduce risks in advance of disaster and in a continuum. Today, almost every country under the United Nations has met the requirements of new policy, made institutional and legal arrangements, especially with special experts in risk management. Turkey is out of international new policy under disaster management. By disregarding alternative opinions, the government has directly put the risk management actions, including planning, local governments, urban transformation and even urban actors, directly into the ministry of Environment and Urbanism. If the Ministry is to conduct risk reduction management, the current situation, capacity and actions of AFAD will have to be reviewed personally. Otherwise, the multiplicity we've always complained about will revisit the situation. If AFAD is asked to qualify for risk management, this institution must be radically modified. It is mandatory to develop planning staff with the head of five or six new agencies to form the risk management wing. Other principles and decisions in the documents of international meetings approved by Turkey are the techniques of reducing risk: establishing community participation, taking into account the risks of planning on all types and scales, prioritizing the increased risks in cities and the risks of urban poverty as soon as possible. To bring these decisions into effect, the United Nations recommended that each country form its own national, urban, local platforms in 2007. As a matter of fact, from immigration policy, from environmental decisions, from the events of travel, from the legal regulations related to TMMOB. The government, let alone platforms, working groups and solidarity partnerships, is establishing a totalitarian, oppressive order to ensure that they do not exist. If you wear swimming glasses in this country or do a bannered sit-in, you can be arrested, you can be arrested, you can be printed in a vocational room, you can be picked up, you can be beaten for defending your stream, you can be exposed to gas bombs, plastic bullets, and you can even be killed. What is the state of disaster management in the cities in which 75 percent of our people live? As a result of my examination, I can safely say that the situation in our city's history of city earthquakes is no better than it was before the 1999 earthquake. In the next 25 years, I'd like to make it very clear to you that there is a 7 percent chance that there will be a larger earthquake in the Sea of Marmara, and that there will be a 65 percent chance that there will be an even greater earthquake. I want to remind you once again that our cities, which are immigrating and unscheduled and unscheduled, have been transformed into rising residential areas, too much of an earthquake to bear the burden of away from science and sanity. I offer my love and respect.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0009par0088	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0010par0093	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the Human Rights Foundation budget. Using my nation's budget rights to me, I have been prevented by the government and the Court's Oversight to determine whether or not the taxes paid by our citizens are being spent in accordance with the way they've been paid. I start by protesting this situation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs we discussed last year, a year and a half ago, on 21 June 2012, the Parliament adopted its law, and on 30/6/2012, the Human Rights Foundation was formed in Turkey. After exactly a year and a half, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Minister of Human Rights, and if there are any, I'd like to ask all our citizens -- do any of you have any idea that an institution called the Human Rights Association has been established in Turkey for over a year and a half, and that this institution has solved any human rights violations so far? My dear friends, we were talking about the budget of a dead-born institution in the corporate law at that time. It is an institution born dead on both national and international levels. Why? Have you ever seen this institution, when an extraordinary situation took place in Turkey, when its president stood up and publicly condemned the events with a single sentence and invited the government to be responsible? For example, is this institution aware of 25 suicides committed in prison this year as a result of illness or suicide? Does this institution know about the 36 people who died in the executions without a trial? Does this institution know of the number of persons who have been killed -2013? Does this institution know that prisons are three stories full, which prison has been examined and invited to be responsible? Has this institution noticed any disproportionate violence against our people in the face of peaceful demonstrations in the face of freedom of expression, organization, meeting, and demonstration? Did the events that took place just a few days ago at Hakkari Yüksekova (Hakkari) and the deaths of three others interest this institution?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0011par0096	No.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0010par0097	My fellow citizens, my esteemed President, the esteemed MPs, ▪ Human rights are not a free concept. When you talk about human rights, when people speak for human rights, the ground must be moved in Turkey. Just a few days ago -- I'm talking because it's hot -- isn't it a problem for any of us to have three people die in Susova? Why wouldn't an institution like the Human Rights Foundation go there immediately? Isn't it the duty of the Human Rights Foundation to correct the pollution of information in the face of these events? Human rights is the common conscience of society. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, since we know that this institution can't do that, I have made a subcommittee proposal to investigate the truth of events that have just occurred in the Supreme Assembly Human Rights Commission, in my capacity as Acting President of the Human Rights Commission of Turkey and Ankara MP, if there is a responsibility, whatever it is, to find the reality behind the events. All our citizens must know that no incident in Turkey will be buried under the dark depths. We, the human rights advocates, must have the courage to take every action with determination. Dear President, the institution founded in Turkey is an institution for friends to see in shopping; it is not recognised on the national scale, but as I have just stated, it is an unacquired internationally. On September 27, 2011, Turkey approved the Adjoinment Against Torture and Honorary Behavior, which was accepted by the United Nations in 1987, and the older one approved the contract, my dear friends. Look, why was the Human Rights Agency founded? Here, under our commitment to the United Nations, Turkey would establish a national prevention mechanism, and we would conduct a joint study of international mechanisms set up in Turkey, prisons, wards, police stations, police stations, women and children's homes, juvies, and all sorts of other places. We made that promise to the United Nations. Mr. Secretary, I specifically ask you to answer my question: Why is there no national mechanism in Turkey, although Turkey has approved it on December 27, 2011 -- a year later -- the need for the establishment of a national prevention mechanism in Turkey on September 27, 2012 -- by Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu himself, to prevent torture? I expect a very clear and clear answer to that question. Other than that, the Human Rights Institution established in Turkey is an institution founded within the framework of the Principles of Paris, but there we said that we set out to establish an institution in Europe, the European Union. You know what we did? The Paris Principles say that national councils to be formed will be independent and will have fiscal autonomy. • My dear friends have appointed seven of the 11 members of the Human Rights Council established in Turkey, two of whom have been appointed by the President, including the most respected politicians, philosophers, sociologists, psychologists, human rights advocates. We're talking about a committee appointed to run 85%. Now, would it be possible for such a board to be independent, my dear friends? I don't know the President of the Human Rights Association. I haven't even seen the President of the Human Rights Association make a public statement yet. Today we are discussing a budget worth 4 million, 517,000 TL. What will this institution do, what has it done, and with what experts, what officials will prevent torture in Turkey? Does this institution in Turkey know the number of prisons, the number of police stations? There are 81 districts in Turkey, Mr. Minister, 957 districts, 34,395 villages, 75 million people in the country; there are 3,300 police stations in this country; there are around 5,000 police stations; there are around 400 prisons. Now, the concept brought to the Human Rights Foundation as the Committee for the Preservation of Torture, which has 75 staffs, nine service units, is the anti-tortion unit. This institution has not yet been approved of its work bases. Minister, I also want you to answer the question: Is the Human Rights Institution in Turkey's work regulations established? When does this board meet, how many decisions have been made, how many violations have been made? We're talking about a board that hasn't been convened in over a year and a half because there's no study code. My dear friends, this board's claim to avoid torture is unrealistic with its own number of staff members. Thus, this institution, founded only for friends to see in shopping, has no credibility in Turkey or in the world. You get angry when we say these things, but the European Union is critical of them. The European Union says that the institution of Human Rights in Turkey has not been achieved with international institutions and the institution's task of preventing torture is currently not possible. If you do not believe us, believe in the European Union. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0012par0111	Thank you. Istanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0013par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the religious budget of 2014. I salute you all. The Dianet, established by Ataturk, sees even a Fatiha. It is almost forbidden to mention the name of Ataturk (Ataturk) in mosques. If it weren't for Ataturk, there wouldn't be any religion, and there wouldn't be any President of Religion. Would such disloyalty fit into Islam? The religion was founded that it might enlighten the people in matters of the religion, but in the land there is a jinn, a sorcerer, a blower, a charmer, a liar. Because, other than the religious work, the religion, politics, trade, he does everything. They drank at the mosque to the young men who took refuge in Dolmabahçe Mosque. He who sought to launder the able who slandered him, was more royal than the king, and he claimed that the demonstrators had been in the mosque, and had been in the acts of travel with persecution and violence. The vast tolerance of Islam has been spared from our young people. Even at night, the mosques were kept open as shelters in the events in Egypt, while mosques in Turkey were practically declared a restricted zone of power. The president, who opened VIP mosques, opened the historical mosques with political shows on the morning of the festival, made the mosque courtyards turn into rally sites, made them play tennis in the mosques, stopped God's servants from taking refuge in God's house with their lives during the travel events, making Diyaneti out of being Turkey's Diet. [[Applause from CHP rows]] President Diyaneti is getting into politics, acting like a power spokesman, making political statements. How religious is the President of Religion himself trying to measure and weigh the religion of the people? He again conducted a survey through TÜİK: Are you Alevi, Sunni? Let him tell you that no funeral prayer can be performed by anyone who steals state property. (CHEERING) He's tagging the public with public money. Don't the Alevis have taxes on the religious budget? The religious budget, called "Haram" by the Alekis, is being overcrowded by activities held in luxury hotels. Alevis must cease to linger, they must have legal status, and there must be an administrative structure represented by Diyanette Alevis. Why doesn't the president of the Dianet, who pays electricity fees for churches and synagogues, tells the clergy school of opening news, show the same approach to the mosques? Should we choose to take the pleasure of the Almighty rather than the approval of God by applauding the Prime Minister, who expressed the meanings that were not in the House of Kevser, as if they were in the House of Kevser? Should we order a political abortion fetish, not a Qur'an'an's eyes? The people of Asia Minor, who grow from tooth to nail, are being given the most expensive pilgrimage in the world, with at least $500 more than any pilgrim. Hopefully, in the power of the Republican People's Party, our pilgrims will perform hajj services for less pay. It is unacceptable to spend $400,000 of the money of pilgrims to repair the housing of the president of the Dianet Works. In the Hajj, 14 million Saudi hypocrites have been unable to respond to the motion on corruption charges for 21 months. He'll give up my talk, not his own bunch. The ugly report of the Iğdır Mufti who upset the Jafers, the wife of Yozgat Müftü's wife, is the deity who plays her daughter at the wedding. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Instead of being violent against the woman, who did not see the violence increase 1,400 percent, prevent the killings against the people of Syria. Didn't the president's hand jump out of the blood spilled in Syria? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Aren't those who support these terrorists because they're praying for freedom in Syria? [[Applause from CHP rows]] A pot that boils with religion shouldn't become the focus of injustice and lawlessness. The presence of suicides in recent years is thought to be one of the priests who comforts people in their most painful situations. The appointment of mufti, preacher, imam, muezzin and Koran course teachers must be made according to the occupational achievements of ruling MPs, not according to the wishes of the mayors of the district. Those who have been in charge for over 20 years and who have never been on the pilgrimage must be given priority in their assignments. The wages for four days a week when religious servants cannot use them each month should be reflected in their wages. The deputy imams were given hope, and at the exact moment when they were cast, they were silent, their families were devastated. What do you want with these deputy imams? These atrocities against the regents must come to an end. As the Republican People's Party, we ask that MPs and honorary religious officials be recruited. The rights of the preachers must be improved. The additional indicator difference between the seminary graduates and other faculty graduates must be met. As in national education, the curatives must be made as an il mufti inspector or inspector. Non- Torpili imams shouldn't be sentenced to retirement in villages, deprivation zones. The estates of the foundations -- as a permanent residence -- must be stopped by the ongoing economic tyranny of religious officials. We want the problems of our religious officials, who rise above everyone like the sun, who embrace everyone like the Lord. As the party that establishes the religion, we have deep respect for the religious institution and for the clergy. We believe that dialogue can only maintain its dignity by being above politics. Because our great religion, Islam, is a divine religion, superior to parties, universal, and has come to all mankind. Is it not more fitting to be an institution that is feared by God, not by power, and not between the servants of God, who have not been defeated by a servant? Wouldn't it be best for the Dianet to be an institution, such as right, law, justice, equality, and freedom, to bring forth matters that our great religion cares about? Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0014par0135	Thank you. Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Silver, Here you go, Mr. Silver. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0015par0140	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budgets for TİKA and the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations. I salute your high council with love. In my speech, I'd like to talk to you about the balance of Central Asia. Dear friends, your government is a little far away from these matters. You look at the heights and potentials of Asia, and you say, "How high is Asia?" And you perceive this geography, Central Asia, as smooth; you have no idea what's going on or what's going on. Because of the shallow and narrow-minded policies you've implemented so far, Turkey is almost extinct in Central Asia. Your foreign policy, which dragged our country into the swamp in the Middle East, has also lost its earnings so far in Central Asia. During your rule, Turkey's influence in Central Asia has been driven to zero points, and all gains are about to be lost. I'm going to talk to you about the depth you don't want to take care of and something you failed at. According to international geopolitic experts -- you may have heard the word "Balcanization" -- the issue is Central Asia, which is referred to as the Balkans of the Future. A new commission was set up, they removed the word "Balkan" and called it "Southeast Europe" because the word "Balkan" reminds you of something in geopolitics; it reminds you of confusion, confusion. Why are Central Asian countries called the Balkans of the Future? Have you heard of it? Today, this geography is becoming a focus of all global forces because of its strategic natural wealth and the fact that Asia is in its heart. The main stone of energy and hegemonic balances in the world is the Caspian and Middle East geography, which is the main stone of energy and hegemonic balances in the world. It's the heart of the world's largest rising geography and the door to the east. Precious members, in today's world, the question of integration in Central Asia is more important than the past, not just for us, but for the world. I wonder why. Russia, the United States and China, the most influential states in the region, want Central Asia to become a socioeconomic, cultural and geopolitical place, not a messy view. Even though it seems to be a common goal, each state that wants this integration to happen in its own way and in its own way. In Central Asia, each state wants a different kind of integration, and why? Russia is very uncomfortable with the idea of creating an Eurasia economic union -- see, we were talking about Shanghai, where there was no China in 2015 -- through the customs union. China is the largest investor to enter Central Asia today -- China is the largest investor in Central Asia -- opening 30 border crossings with Central Asian countries to border crossings, building dozens of airports along these borders, building free trade zones along the border -- free trade zones -- there were once free trade zones -- that China had a development engine, and it had a special and important agenda for this region. China's goal is to establish a hegemonic relationship with the region in 2015 and 2020, with the end of the ongoing highways and railways. He is prepared to make large expenses in order to achieve this goal, after which he has signed agreements to develop economic relations with China and Central Asia. Today, many articles have been published in China's view of Central Asia as a natural spread area. As a result of these relations and agreements, China has recently moved further into the process of sub-regional economic integration with the three neighbours of Sincan Supposeda, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, Tajikistan, and Tajikistan. This process is developed within the framework of interstate relations and strategic partnerships. China's relations with Afghanistan and Iran are also improving in parallel with Central Asia's goals. The interesting thing is, when the leaders of Central Asian countries are very sympathetic to economic relations with China and they want to take them to the top, important warnings come from the public and the press, hegemonic relations are being established, and the future of this could be dangerous. China's wish to quickly Chineseize the population of the Sincan Autonomous Region and prepare this region to become the economic center of Central Asia, and establish its hegemonic presence in the Shanghai Co-operation process is crucial for future Asian balances. These are the extraordinary and hegemonias that exist within the Shanghai Co-operation Organization, which you want to be in, and the natural resources in Caspian. The United States is trying to establish exponents quickly in order to maintain weight and balance in the region. Our government has increased its anxiety over its worsening relations with the West, hoping to exist in the Central Asian geography it has so far forgotten and Shanghai Co-operation Organization. Mr. Prime Minister, we once made glorious agreements. From what he called the EU, he calls Central Asia, Shanghai Co-operation Organization. If you can see the future, we can see the future. If so, Mr. Prime Minister, why do you call us from the EU? So were you blind at one time, or was your current account wrong? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0016par0151	Aydın Ayan Ayyadın, İstanbul MP. Here you go. Your time is 14 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0017par0155	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Capital Market Board. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, I have been prevented by the government and the Court's Oversight to determine whether or not the taxes paid by our citizens are being spent in accordance with the way my nation has given me the budget. I'd like to start by protesting this situation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The global economy is entering a new conjunctive against developing countries such as Turkey, replacing the world's abundance of liquidity with global tightening; Turkey is at the head of this situation, depending on the recovery of the United States economy. While the village has not wanted a guide, all these issues have been told over and over again to the economy administration, the AKP has continued to read that it knows power, exports in rhetoric, in reality high internal demand, import-based, high-carriage creation, and erasing domestic savings. As a result of this model, Turkey has been condemned to a high-trial open climate; it has not exceeded the traditional average in growth; it has failed to control the current deficit; it has failed to prevent unemployment; it has failed to maintain price stability; and most importantly, perhaps most importantly, domestic savings have been reduced. As a matter of fact, Turkey has been shown as the most troubled country of this conjunctive, where global liquidity is shrinking in international markets, because it is dependent on high foreign exchange entry, which is due to the level of domestic savings. In developing countries, like us, the average domestic savings rate is in the 30 per cent, while the AKP has already taken its already low savings level from 18.6 per cent and reduced it to 12 per cent. Unfortunately, it is clear that domestic savings will not be sufficient in the short and middle term, and will be 16 per cent in 2016. And yet, the current has become the fate of the open country. How will a country, such as Turkey, find financing in the coming period, which is leading to closing its current account deficit with large amounts of short-term capital intakes? Won't the financing cost increase? How are you going to make it grow without a high rate of exposure? If what's being trusted -- which is understood -- is export, the recent performance of exports is obvious, so it's not enough. Economic management has often expressed that the source of growth in recent times should be exports, not domestic demand, but external demand-based growth essays. This assessment that we've been talking about over the years is a accurate determination, an essential goal and a good wish, but I think we'll call it a coercion of global and local dynamics or the end of the sea. Yes, it is extremely important for the growth model that the AKP has insisted on and has implemented over the years. A sustainable and realistic growth composition is now essential to a balanced growth model that both domestic demand and more net exports contribute together. What does economic management do in this economic structure and conjunctural? He wants to brake private loans to suppress internal consumption, so while he's doing that, he's not trying to do it over the price, he's trying to do a credit limit on the amount. This is a method that has been tried before, but has failed, which will not result today; I want to make it very clear to the AKP's government. Look, we've been saying for years as Republican People's Party that the biggest problem with Turkey is low savings. But what did you do? You continue to serve it yourself, let alone watch the savings melt. Now that you're showing up, you need to increase the billing. So much consumption is risky, you say. I'll tell you what, that's all there is to it, what the AKP government has done and what they've said has always been different. In Turkey, in the last five or six years alone, the rate of credit volume has increased from 30 per cent to 50 per cent, rapidly and greatly, to over 50 per cent today. So it turns out that this trend will continue and the volume of the loan will continue to grow. And with three elections ahead of us, you're not gonna give up on this model that fits short-term political interests. Here are the growth figures, which unfortunately confirm our economic assessments, which are growing again with domestic demand. To AKP's so-called success story: If the growth of 2013 occurs at 3.6 per cent, such as in the Central Time Program, AKP's average growth of 2003-2013 would be 4.9 per cent. Yeah, 4.9. In the 1990s, when you said that you didn't like it, the government of unstructive coalitions, we saw growths at five percent. Let's look at unemployment. As in coalition governments you don't like, unemployment average in the 1990s is 8.2%. So, what's the average unemployment rate for the 11-year AKP administration that you brag about so much? 10.7%. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Is your success in inflation that hasn't been achieved since the inflation target was implemented and can't be drawn to 5 percent? Or is it your rate of success that the current open problem becomes chronic and high and that the growth of 2 percent is acceptable to 3 percent because the current deficit is feared? At this point, the AKP's government has taken a very serious step towards the burden of debt. In your opinion, it is a success if public debt stock falls below 40 per cent of national income. However, there is another side to the medallion. In the last ten years, there has been a significant increase in private debt. In 2002, two thirds of the country's foreign debt belong to the state, while two thirds of the debt now belong to the private sector. Today, the country's debt supply is $367 billion, and $127 billion is short-term. Again, the private sector's net currency obligation is 165 billion dollars. I mean, the currency debt is 165 billion dollars higher than the currency assets. The non-financial ratio of the real sector, or the real sector, has increased from 65 percent to 105 per cent in the last five years alone. Is this what you call success? Clearly, this is a huge risk to the country's economy. Taking the risk of debt and courtship into the private sector is not the answer. After all, isn't this debt the debt of this country, the obligation of this economy? Moreover, the AKP has forced the Central Bank on these wrong economic policies. Disregarding his independence, he finally turned it into an ordinary institution under his command. The bank, which ended its credibility with inflation forecasts on its main goal of price stability, has finally lost its independence by pledge to AKP power, unfortunately. (Applause from CHP rows) When interest is reached 9 per cent, it would be too naive to expect a central bank to be taken seriously by the market, which has kept policy interest at 4.5 per cent, which is satisfied with a small amount of foreign currency sales in the face of global capital outputs, who are looking for permission from political power to increase interest and not receive that permit in recent years. As a matter of fact, the markets and the markets in this framework are finding their interest and their currency, and all of this is being watched by the Central Bank. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask: Is it right to make a commitment to court at the end of the year? Well, it's the end of the year; where's 1.92? A person who trusts the president of the Central Bank will be harmed, and who will pay for it? What face does Mr. Prime Minister have to sit in that chair that has ruined the bank's reputation and his own? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, about the election economy debates. Economic management always says there's no economy of choice. Yeah, well, that's not what the Midterm Program says. See, in terms of public savings and budget deficits, 2014 stands as a different year than any other. In 2014, the public savings rate has dropped, and in parallel, the budget deficit is increasing in 2014. I wonder, where does 2014 come from? It might be true if you don't count the elections. It's beautiful so far, but many laws on energy efficiency, especially mine, have been waiting on commissions for years. The heat insulation alone will earn the country more than $10 billion, but the law proposals we've given to the country continue to sit on the commissions' shelves. I'd like to talk to you about something else. Article 50 of the Banking Law forbids loans to members of the banks, CEOs, and partners of their companies. In the past period -- the government's most boasted -- you've rebutted those indirect loans to the bank owners in prisons because it was true, they were transferring the banks' resources to their own people and companies. Now, we come to this period, where the 50th article of the Banking Law stands. But, in violation of Article 50 of the Banking Law, an aide close to this government buys it from the Tigris energy company, which he purchased from his own bank. In the past administrations, you have rebutted those who transferred banks' resources to their companies in prison. Now, when the same law clause is in effect, why do you remain silent when you give credit to those who are your allies, to companies that they buy from their own banks without privatizing their resources? As if that wasn't enough... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...The Banking Organization and Control Agency is commenting, saying: "Sir, this loan is an indirect loan." It is written in the law: For whatever reason, bank partners cannot transfer loans to their own companies. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0018par0180	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0019par0181	Mr. Babacan will answer you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0018par0182	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0020par0185	Sir, Mr Mehmet Erdogan is our candidate for the mayor of Muğla Metropolitan.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0018par0186	Good luck, good work.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0020par0187	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0021par0188	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the budgets of esteemed lawmakers, Undersecretary of Public Order and Security and the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. I salute your grand delegation and our dear citizens who follow us on their television. However, before I begin, I would like to stress one thing: I would like to ask all our citizens to take a look at the order of power that wants to see the importance of power to the budget. Its importance to the budget, not even 26 of the 326 MPs in the hall, is strongly expressed by the AKP's power. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are capable of various disasters -- a major part of our country's geography -- especially an earthquake. In this regard, disaster and emergency management are vital in our country. However, as with everything else, the AKP has seized power and managed to turn things into a riot. He has shut down the Civil Defence General Directorate and the Director General of Disaster Affairs. He's transferred search and rescue units to the county's private administration. Now, with the closing of private administrations in 30 major cities, it's up to the municipalities. In addition, AFAD has failed to co-ordinate without a rural organization. A number of high-ranking public officials involved in the latest Van earthquake have been in a difficult position to give the minister instructions that contradict each other by going to Van. But disaster management is a professional business, and it should be. Again, disaster and intervention in emergencies should also be done by professional teams. If you make AFAD a training center, if you reduce AFAD from the strength, the power to intervene, if you make it a unit in the corridors of the Prime Minister, our country will be more affected by the effects of the disasters that we will face next. Therefore, the AFAD must include highly mobile search-and-rescue units. Again, there is also the need for a rural unit of property managers to make the necessary preparations for the disaster. Meanwhile, we've discussed very controversial laws about urban transformation here, but there's no way that our country can be saved from disasters and disaster by converting urban transformation intorantal transformation. Again, there is another disaster at the head of our country, which is AKP power. Therefore, to buy land 2/B, our countrymen in Mugla are selling other fields, tractors, cows, cows. Again, right now, the citruses are in their gardens, unable to find buyers to collect their oranges, which have fallen to 20 or 25 cents. Again, our greenhouses, our manufacturers are miserable. Using the world's most expensive entries, it sells the world's cheapest products. Therefore, we pray that our country will survive this disaster as soon as possible. Mr. President, the most important duty of the state is to ensure public order, the citizen's safety of life and property. The Home Office used to do that. One day, the AKP established an undersecretary with no executive duties; Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. At first we wondered what this institution would do. But we soon found out that the task of this institution was not to maintain public order, but to create chaos, to divide society, to legitimize terrorists who meant for our country's unity, for its receptacle, for its integrity, to co-ordinate the bullshit called "instrumentalism." Used to be dealing with terrorists was a covert job, it was a shame. You're talking to terrorists. He's the bastard who doesn't prove it. Now that things are moving forward, there are welcoming ceremonies for terrorists in Habur. In the past, criminals, terrorists were taken to court, and now the courts are being taken to the hands of terrorists. Diyarbakır is now held with non-Turkish Flags, non-Istiklal Antırım. The terrorists have rags, the terrorist leader's posters, the terrorist leader's messages read there. This freak doesn't see the situation, the cops don't see the governors, they don't see the prosecutors, so when terrorists do what they want, they get public order wherever they want.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0022par0197	Yeah, we're going to talk, we're interviewing, we're negotiating, we're going to talk. His message will be read, his explanations will be made, you'll get used to it! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0023par0198	You can get everyone used to it, but we won't!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0022par0199	You'll get used to it. I'm sorry!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0200	Again, Mr. Prime Minister, the public order is restored after meeting with the so-called artists of Barzani and our nation, who have made a habit of swearing at our state in Diyarbakir. A Deputy Prime Minister going to the United States recently attends a panel called Turkey's Democratisation Process, friends. There, he outlines how public order is maintained, how our country is delivered to the PKK. In his own words, meetings with PKK rags are no longer prohibited. It's not a crime to rally with a terrorist's poster. We've released all those who were punished for these crimes, he says. From now on, we don't pursue these crimes. It's not over yet, friends: it's not a crime for our nation to ask for autonomy, state and so forth against the unity of our state, to say what anyone wants to do about it. The arrangement of panels related to these also states that it is not a crime for our government to tell its unity and its diary that everyone wants it. He boasts that he has lost his speed, given to minorities, and that they have delivered all the gains that we have gained in Lausanne. Friends, have you forgotten why our grandparents in Çanakkale became martyrs? Why did 30,000, 40,000 of our citizens die in the east and southeast? How are you going to answer to that?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0025par0203	Our grandfathers weren't martyrs so you could insult us.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0204	I mean, separatists are allowed to do whatever they want everywhere. Why? Don't let the mothers cry! But who's in control of the area? We'll leave that to your appreciation. Just a few days ago, two of our petty officers and two of our sergeants were kidnapped.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0026par0205	Yes, three people lost their lives on the same day.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0206	By whom? There's no answer. Then, someone stepped in, and the PKK gave us their blessing and released our troops. What a load of crap, guys! How do you put up with it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0026par0207	Well, there's this peace process to make sure that doesn't happen.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0208	The PKK has been gracious and released our troops.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0026par0209	There's a peace process to keep people from dying.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0210	What a time for us, Lord!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0026par0211	Understand that!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0212	Save us from the AKP mentality that puts us in this position, Lord!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0026par0213	There's a peace process so there won't be bloodshed.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0027par0214	You can fool anyone, not the MHP!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0215	If the PKK is bored, like a furnace that lifts a pot, we will stir it up, and we will suffer for the process to not be harmed!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0028par0217	Congressmans, please, let's hear it!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0024par0218	So, where we come from, it's a lot easier to maintain public order. Promotion, democratization, process and so forth... give the separatists and global powers whatever they want, get rid of it; public order is being provided in the country, my friends! Mr. President, dear lawmakers, by the way, I'd like to stress a few more things. Is there a new development in our country about public order that we don't know about? Is there a new incident that threatens public order in Thrace? Why is it necessary for the Prime Minister to stop life under the name of security in his domestic travel and rallying? At the safest point in Turkey -- I have never felt the need for security, day and night -- at the furthest point of Turkey -- why did I not need to have a security guard with me? Why have thousands of police from all over Turkey moved to Laugla? Again, was it necessary for the police to gather in the field unarmed and civilian at the rally where the Prime Minister was attending that no one else was able to find the rally site? Again, why is life needed to be stopped in the name of the safety of the Prime Minister's travel and rally? I'd also like to ask you, where did some of our governors and trustees get the authority to detain those who were deemed to be at fault with the Prime Minister's trip before and during the trip? Who gives you the right to detain some criminals while they're on the loose? I salute your high council. I wish the 2014 budget to be a blessing and auspicious.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0029par0223	Thank you. Istanbul MP Atila Kaya, come in Mr Kaya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0030par0227	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget for the National Executive Budget Bill of 2014, regarding the budget for the President of Religious Affairs. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the Co-Chair of the Grand Middle East Project has launched a political opening project, aimed at reaching the federation from ethnic origin, and has envisioned the presidency of Dianet Affairs as a foot of this project. However, the president of the Religious Affairs at the time had expressed his own reputation, stating that unity and unity in our country and the prevention of discrimination were among the purposes of the Dianet, stating that he had to do his own basic work rather than be part of questionable political projects. The current President was then appointed to the post, provided he was active in the expansion process. As a result of this process, Mr. Kümlüglu will be remembered just as respectfully as he will be remembered, but he will be remembered for being truly suitable for the choice of this power. This is the kind of dignity in which those in positions of religious affairs in Islamic history, when they resist the unjust practices of political authorities, are remembered in their support with humiliation. Well, how else will Mr. Gormez be remembered? For example, the Prime Minister has a different religion in accordance with the terms of Izmir. This piety needs the tradition of wisdom. It will be remembered for its words. For example, instead of trying to deal violently with the woman at the signing ceremony of the Project for Consolidation of the Religious Officers in Avoiding Violence, first remember the killings against humanity. But most of all, being a follower of the Prime Minister's anger towards Dolmabahce Mosque Muezzin after the travel events. Those who do not bear witness to falsehood, and when they pass by vain talk, they pass by with dignity. Those who act according to God's command will be remembered for their investigation and their driving. We will not forget that none of us should ever hold you back from justice, which the persecuted muezzi knows very well. And Mr. Secretary of State, who is in charge of the Diyanet, who said he was a missionary, did not know whether it was against yourself, your parents, or your relatives. Actually, it's no wonder what happened to the muezzi. It must not be forgotten that Mr. Gormez is sitting in the seat of a president who was sent away because he didn't say what the power wanted. And it must be seen that this power is now a measure that disturbs the senses. Honorable MPs will be remembered not only for their weaknesses in the face of power, but also for what they have not done, nor for what they have not done. For example, in September of last year, bad imitations in Cami architecture are a serious problem for us. Because he knows that it is not the mosque that will rise on that distant hill of Istanbul, but the Prime Minister's soul. Dear lawmakers, there are things that the President of Religious Affairs can't do that would make the moral responsibility he takes on a shirt of fire if he cared. For example, why is the Prophet of Hazret, who was asked, "Who is the believer? Why is he confident of the hand and language of the people? Let him explain why he gave a non-species answer to the worship in the form of the AKP. If he knows, let him tell us how he can cross the line. As a person who believes that a people has been destroyed because of his deceit on the scale, I ask the Chairman of the Religious Affairs: What does he think of the position of power in the case of the Lighthouse, which is called the fraud of Asr? The Muslims in this country are listening to him. Please answer without bending the book. Why don't you tell the Muslim People that a Muslim Prime Minister is the Co-President in a crusade game like the Great Middle East Project that turned Muslim geography into a pool of blood? Dear lawmakers should know that a prime minister and his staff in the administration, who said his reference was Islam, had never foreseen any religious political management model. Our glorious Book, the Qur'an, has nothing but rules, and these are justice, righteousness, and thanks. In fact, he is a master of both righteousness and justice. So, the basic principle in Islam is justice. The opposite is persecution. In the Turkish state tradition, management is built on justice, the basic principle. The most important expression of this is that in Seljuklu Veziri Nizamülmülmülmük, the same sentence in the risal of Ottoman statesman Koçi Bey: the state doesn't collapse with blasphemy, but it collapses with zulm. I don't expect the geometric patterns in Seljuklu's only part of the headquarters to grasp it. I say these things in order to make clear the meaning of the Iğdır Muftulik report, which is an application of power and the understanding of governance of his Religious Affairs. Dear lawmakers, as you know, Jaferi of the Iğdır Mufti has drawn up a report that defames the faith of our citizens and wants to make them a suspect in state security, and the Governorate of Iğdır has approved this report and sent it to the Security Directorate. We don't know if the Iğdır Muftü has been saving this kind of money by taking courage from the sectarian Prime Minister or taking orders from the President of Religious Affairs. In the end, our citizens, as much as their people, as much as their faith, have been offended by their commitment to their Turkishness. It is one of the most disturbing examples of power using the Diianity as an instrument of politics. Members of parliament, we can say by removing from this example, that either the government that determines friends and enemies abroad is trying to implement the same policy within the country, or the people who stand up as the Turkish flag in the opening geography are disturbing the Prime Minister, and it's possible that playing such games on our citizens of Jaferi is part of an opening betrayal. Congressmans, you are willing to tear down the mosque for the road, which Mr. State Bahçeli, the chairman of the National Movement Party, stated in a speech by Mr. President of the National Movement Party, and you are opening a church to avoid the BOP roll call. On his words, Mr. Prime Minister said that Christian, Jewish and atheist citizens also pay taxes in this country, and that it is also necessary to uphold their law. Now, I ask him, is Mr. Erdogan not the Prime Minister of the Christian, Jewish and atheists just the Prime Minister of our Jaferi citizens? Or is justice to him at the limits of his own interests? Dear lawmakers, the President of Religious Affairs has been criticised for working as a Sunni organisation at the most so far. As we have seen once again in the Mufti of Iğdır, these criticisms also have a merit. But in their power, loyalty to the sultan also got in the way of circumcision. One of the most prominent role models in the Sunni tradition is the Imamazam (Imamazam) who died in the dungeons of Emevi and Abbasi, because the oppressors rejected his role as a wife. It is evident from the policy of the President of Religious Affairs and from the way he came in, that the role model is not Imamaazam, who stands by you in the face of the cruel sultan. Congressmans, I'd like to finish my words with a reminder and advice to the President of the Religious Affairs. My reminder is that in the past months, when Al Qaeda was asked about the acts of terror committed in Kenya and Pakistan, he said that these were completely non-Islamic, that Islam had rejected, that Islam had never accepted. Remember, al-Qaeda is just a frontier of religion being used to politics. If he wants his attitude to be credible, he must also demonstrate his preventing motive. In the so-called Kurdish expansion process, my recommendation to the President of Religious Affairs would be: On the eve of the Memorial Day, the government's terrorist leader, Diyarbakır, called for an Islamic Congress to be held in İmralı. And if they can fit such a congress into those busy processes, let Mr. Gönez be the co-chair. That's what the BOP Co-Chair's opening Minister for Religious Affairs says, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0031par0243	Thank you. Slap Congressman Reşat Right, your deadline is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0032par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill, I have made a commitment to TİKA and the presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad. I salute the High Council. TİKA, the Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration and the presidency of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys were established after Turkish states, which gained independence in Central Asia in the 1990s. They've done important services since they were founded. The aim of the organisations was to develop relations with the Turkish world and help and pioneer them in their geography. Unfortunately, however, the TİKA, along with the AKP's government, went out of its way by changing its name, then its activities. TİKA would operate in the Turkish world as it was established in 1992, helping our relatives there. However, in the last 11 years, this has not happened, it's been out of order, it's been turned into a charity for world states. At his establishment, he would be reached wherever there was a Turk. Turkey would be liked, Turkish would be liked, joint history, literature, joint alphabet would be created, unitedness would be established, but many of them were left to other spring. The introduction of aid activities to various countries has recently, of course, led to some allegations related to TİKA (TİKA) that have also been raised and brought to light. Since TİKA is doing most of its activities abroad, control issues are now on the agenda in various ruines. The money spent, the money used, is very large. Rightfully, all MPs and Turkish people in Turkey's Grand National Assembly want to know where the money is being spent. In this regard, there are various claims that should be given information about the tender, investment, payment, and so on that country. In connection with these allegations, lawmakers have submitted several questions motions, but it is clear that there are no comprehensive, debriefing answers. As MPs, we would like to ask the following questions: Are the tenders carried out under the TİKA in accordance with legal regulations or not? What companies are taking the tenders? Are there any other offers for the same jobs? HOW much money is being paid for the services or materials bought for the projects carried out abroad? In what criteria are they given money when various aid is being given to the states? Are these being done for political purposes or not? We want to know these questions on behalf of our nation, on behalf of our MPs. Members of parliament, outside our country today, in the Armenian occupation of Azerbaijan, in Crimea, in Ahiska, in Kerkok, in East Turkistan, in Syria, in the Balkans, there are many, many, many problems. Other than that, about 3.5 to 4 million brothers and sisters live in Europe. It's the state of the Republic of Turkey that will take care of all these problems. If substance abuse among European Turks is increasing, more than 30,000 people are in prison for drug crime, then the state of the Republic of Turkey must be responsible first. Look, right now, we're saying that more than 30,000 people are lying down, where our children are being sent to Turkey, after their sentence is over, without being subjected to any rehabilitation, we're sending them to their village in the form of a time bomb, and when they come to their village, unfortunately, they're infecting other people with their own habits, like a disease. Like this problem, there are many issues -- the European Turks -- which are responsible for many of the government's ministries -- we have to explain them, of course. Moreover, in Kerkuk, Mosul, Telafer, we see that all Turks face great pressure. He'll take care of those people, and he'll lay a hand on them, and he'll still have to be our government. There are attacks on our brothers in the Sincan region of East Turkistan, massacres. It should be the state of the Republic of Turkey, which will bring this issue to NGOs around the world, offering solution proposals. If the Turks in Iraq are being forced to leave under the pressure of migration and there have been recent massacres in areas where there are people, shouldn't they be carried to various ruines? We call it East Turkistan, which is now happening in East Turkistan. See, in 2009, more than 200 people were killed in the conflict between the Chinese who later settled in the territory of the Uygur Turks. Since then, tension has not stopped in this region. Our brothers and sisters who live here are treated as captives, sometimes unable to leave their homes; they are killed in their workplaces, and their dwellings are burned to the ground. As Turkey, it is our primary duty to take a closer look at the problems of the Turks there, to make international initiatives in solving the problems. See, the leader of the Turks of East Turkia, Rabia Kadir Ma'am, struggles very hard and runs all over the world at the point of representation of the Turks. There are large conventions in Japan with the Turks of East Turkistan, where their rights and rights are explained, but interestingly, Rabia Kadir Ma'am cannot enter our Turkey, Turkey is not accepted. It's a fact that it's not being taken care of, or it's being tried to take care of in a weak way. I'm afraid none of this is enough. All Turks abroad must be taken care of. The Turks in the region of Sincan in East Turkey, in Crimea, in Telafer, in Sivastopol, in Bucharest are also our brothers. We need to be in the interest of every place where the Turkish people are, absolutely, absolutely, we need to reach out there. The Turkish world is the future and guarantee of our country. It is our primary duty to approach them without fear of this world. However, as far as we can see, the ruling Justice and Development Party has a problem with the Turkish nation and its promise. Turkish nationalism is unfortunately underfoot, and 36 ethnic identities are mentioned. In fact, a member of the Justice and Development Party, MKYK, says there is no Turkish race in the world. He can deny the geography he lives in. There's no way to accept them. Members of parliament, TİKA, the presidency of Turkish abroad and Relative Communitys is also established for Turks who live in various parts of the world. If there is no Turk, then why are these organizations founded and operating? The answer must be given. TİKA, of course, can help Africa, Palestine, Afghanistan, open offices there, but there are places in the Turkish world where people can't find bread, can't find hospitals, can't find doctors. If they're being helped, at least they can reach out to needy, poor people in the Turkish world. We expect the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad to be more active. From the day it was founded, it had great activities, but it had to be reviewed, but the gap of TİKA (TİKA), which was pushed out of the Turkish world by the government must be filled by this organization. Students brought in from abroad must be adopted differently, encouraged to return when they finish school, followed on various occasions in their country, and not to be cut off from our relations. The presidency of the Turkish and related communities abroad must open offices abroad. In addition, our people must be informed and held meetings on various issues abroad, especially in Europe. Meetings there can be invited not only by people with a certain political opinion, but by people from every group, their country, their nation, so that includes everyone, every group can be invited. Complaints from Turks in European countries are only at the point where organizations close to the AKP have been called, whereas there are many major institutions that have had Turkish youth and Turkish people for years, such as Turkish federations. Why aren't people called out there? We think they should be called in and taken their opinion as well. I told you that Turkish youth living abroad in Europe have many problems, particularly drugs. People who live there must also be supported at the educational point where they have national and spiritual values. In addition, our young people there -- the second generation, the third generation -- almost don't recognize Turkey and the Turkish world. These people can be invited to show our historical places to our country; Çanakkale, Bursa, Topkapi Palace, Willow, Woodet, and history should be revealed to our children. The size of the Turkish state, the majesty of its historical culture, must be shown to those young people, to be kept alive and proud, to be proud. Members of parliament, the process of 20 years of independence in the Turkish world is not a very long period of time. Most of this time period, more than half of it, has passed through the Justice and Development Party's reign. We've done a lot in this world. The past is completely forgotten when it's called. When their independence was won, the governments of the Republic of Turkey used every opportunity they had, and they did some very important projects. Our civil society organizations, even our simple citizens, who had no special features, ran to that geography, saying, "This is the land of Turan." Those projects must continue in the Justice and Development Party's power, but unfortunately they haven't. At least from now on, states can be visited by time intervals; economic, cultural, social projects can be presented in mutual visits. In addition, mutual agreements must be carried out. So the various projects we've seen, the various projects we've seen, unfortunately, are being tried to be left on paper, or there's not a lot of serious improvements. We're having trouble understanding that. We've done it, relationships have improved. It's almost being painted. Members of parliament, our relations with all independent Turkish states, including the Uzbekistan state, must be improved, and problems must be resolved. The Uzbekistan state is a population of over 25 million inhabitants in Central Asia. I want to tell you that there is no chance for us to give up those people, the land, the Tashkent, the Buhara, the Samarkant. Furthermore, if the Turks of Ahıska cannot return to the province of Ahilkelek in Georgia today, the Justice and Development Party is responsible for this. The subject of regression, unfortunately, has not been taken seriously. However, this region is the home of the Turks. This is the home of the Turks from the past. Why are these people that Stalin is trying to destroy not supported, but abandoned to their own destinies? In the past period, TİKA was sponsored by its network, buying homes and land for the Crimean Turks and returning to the area. Why are you holding the same project back from the Ajussi Turks? Or doesn't the return of the Ahýska Turks to the Hall of Law enter your field of duty, the field of the TİKA (TİKA)? We're waiting for the answer to our question. Also, Azerbaijan is occupied by one third of his territory, including Karabakh. People who have been forced out of their own territory are miserable, immigrants, fugitives, living in various areas, unfortunately under very difficult circumstances. These days we help Syrian refugees, people there, our brothers there. It is our duty to help them because during every period of history, the Turks have opened their hearts to victims and opened their hearts to all kinds of possibilities, but we must have the problems of the Turk of Azerbaijan. So if there is an invasion in Karabakh, if there are seven cities around it, the causes and consequences of the invasion and some studies must be carried out as to what will be done next. Because in Azerbaijan territory, there are dramas happening in those areas right now, but interestingly enough, NGOs and NGOs don't see the drama there either. December 10th is the Day of Human Rights of the World. What was done about the Turkish world on December 10th, the Day of Human Rights? Why is something not done about the return of the people of Azerbaijan, the people of Karabağ, who were taken out of their land as children, to their homelands? That's what we want to know. Of course, especially the Hodja massacre -- look, even though the blood of the Hodja massacre wasn't dried -- and we call it the World Human Rights Day -- we're still living in a world where those who committed the Human Rights massacre on World Day are free to go around, where they're presidents and prime ministers, but I think it's our duty to find out who's responsible. In the Turkish world, we now have schools in many places: Manas/ta, Ahmet Yesevi, Azerbaijan, Romania's Mecidiye region. It's interesting that our schools in these areas are not very well owned by the Justice and Development Party. The physical conditions in those areas have deteriorated. AT some points -- this is the computer -- there's some support being made, but it's not enough. Those schools must be visited by our government's authorities and those areas must be followed, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0033par0272	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Sumer Oral, Alderman of Manisa. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0034par0277	Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the Undersecretary of Treasury budget bill of 2014. I salute you all. I'd like to talk to you about two of the key issues provided by the Treasury Undersecretary for 15+3 minutes on the budget bill in 2014. The first is the structure of the public finances today. The other is that the domestic savings deficit has increased a little bit each year over the past 11 years, and this development has resulted in growth and the rotation of the economy's wheels today with a large amount of external resources. These are the main areas followed by the Treasury Undersecretary. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to say that in our global economy, economic distortions in the global conjunctural, economic fluctuations are moving rapidly and overall. In such an economic conjunctural context, it must be an effort to build a structure that is resistant to external fluctuations and to carefully protect it. In essence, there is no calmer port for the country's economies to take refuge in other areas. As I evaluate economic structures and development, I believe it is not enough to express the conjunctural formations and the size and consequences that they carry, but that beyond that, there should be a more comprehensive analysis. So instead of a painting called nominalism, there is no doubt that a real analysis of the economy, the structural state of public finance, will show its course, will have much more value. This approach will bring with it data that will make it clear whether the public finances will need structural arrangement or reform. At the end of a single rule period of eleven years, eleven years ago was this, twenty years ago. An analysis would be much more accurate. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, a solid public finance on balance is a prerequisite for a strong economy. As a matter of fact, as we entered the 21st century in Turkey, the goal of comprehensive legal and structural reforms in the early 2000s was to create a sustainable growth environment, as well as to make the economy more resistant to the outside. As a matter of fact, the liquidation of funds in the public sector, the securing of the budgetary union, the liquidation of all the losses, the Public Contraction Act, the Public Financial Management and Control Act, some regulations such as the Law on Debts, and especially the sensitivity to financial discipline are the mains of what has been done within that scope. Mr. President, during the meeting of the budget, Mr. Prime Minister said the banks were taken in an extremely bad shape, empty, and bought such an agricultural bank. However, the most radical regulations in the field of public banks, the arrangements to make the banking system healthy and in line with international standards, were completed in Turkey in 1999, 2000 and 2001, when the AKP had not yet been established. In addition, arrangements have been made to solidify the financing structures of banks, especially public banks -- not just the Agriculture Bank -- and 25.1 billion Turkish liras in 2000 and 2001 have been paid in duty losses; 3.2 billion in capital support, $28.3 billion in treasury paper, the state's internal debt and cash. Therefore, on 3 November 2002, the Bank of Agriculture had nothing to gain from the treasure. Look -- there's no need to express these things, the government today is very shy to say these things, but the IMF President, Madame Christine Lagarde, who visited Turkey, said all these banking reforms were done before 2002, and therefore, from the 2008 financial crisis, Turkey's banks were healthy. They are also explicitly expressed in the publications of the Banking Editorial and Control Board, and in the publications of the Banking Union. The book I have here is a book published by the Bank Association in November 2012, and it says: "The most radical changes in banking regulations in our country were made by Banking Law 4389, published on June 23, 1999. There's no need for that, but now that these are in the middle, how can the government say I built this banking system? I'll leave that to our citizens.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0035par0284	He says, he says!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0034par0285	These reforms led to a positive trend in macroeconomic indicators at a reasonable time. In 1999 -- I want to draw the bottom -- at 62.9 percent in 1999 -- the inflation rate was reduced to 28.9.a in 2002 and 18.4 in 2003. The growth rate was 6.2% in 2002, while the current account deficit remained only at 3 per thousand in the same year. While this solid structure was to be meticulously protected, even reinforced by new measures and structural arrangements, it was not properly taken care of, so there have been some significant breaks in the public finances in recent years. The current state of public finance today appears to be as follows: The spending foot of the budget has lost a great deal of flexibility, solidified. Extracurricular spending is now rapidly moving away from the structure that can be afforded by the reductions in interest spending. And it's hard to miss the tremendously serious problems that are facing forward in the expense pens of our budget. In fact, it should be discussed in the budget. The income leg of the budget, the original and continuous tax system, has been highly unhealthy, and the social and economic functions of the tax have been neglected. In 11 years, the share of indirect taxes has increased from 65 per cent to 70 per cent of the tax structure we left behind. Except for pardons, in the field of tax law, although it has been expressed very often, it has not been touched, it has not made a radical arrangement, there is only a reduction in the rate of corporate tax. In recent years, the budgets have started to include a once-in-a-lifetime income. A one-time income is not used for one-time expenses, but to cover continuous spending increases. The fact that temporary revenues have been handled as permanent revenues is not reasonable in terms of public financing, but also very misleading in terms of budget balance, perhaps concealing the true size of budget deficits. Besides, the budget is becoming a huge fund. It has been handed over to the Finance Minister, which belongs to parliament in the provision of the budget and the allocation between the provisions imposed on the amendment and budget law in 2007 in the Law on Public Financial Management and Control 5018. Thus, during the year, there are significant additional grants, other than the Parliament's knowledge and approval. The application continues to increase, even though the Court has been criticised every year. In short, TOKI has begun to take the place of the former Ministry of Public Housing, which is outside the building of housing, realizing that it does not have to abide by the process and principles of the Law on Public Retribution without the permission of parliament and the Ministry of Development. The income and expense situation, the spending bases, are far from transparent. A secret fund might be more accurate. Parliament has no control over the Fund, and a real Court audit does not exist. One of the key steps of budget discipline is the Public Contraction Law. Unfortunately, this has become one of the factors that led to the budget being directed like a large fund. With the changes being made, many expenditures and institutions have been excluded from the scope of this law. When the amendments to the Law on Financial Management and Control and the Law on Public Contraction are assessed together, the budget begins to be directed like a fund. After the bag of law enforcement, it looks like we're moving one step at a time towards the bag budget. It's for the best. Financial discipline in economies is not supposed to be carried out. We don't make any sacrifices from fiscal discipline. It doesn't mean anything. It has to be done. Budget deficits, if they're talking about budget deficits, can't be the measure of financial discipline alone. Financial discipline is the result of a complete public finance application. The above brief applications clearly show that financial discipline today has been badly damaged. Dear President, lawmakers, the level of domestic savings is a prerequisite for providing the growth we need. Today, Turkey has a growth rate of about 7 per cent per year -- maybe not 7 per year -- but close to 7. In the eleven years we've left behind, domestic savings have become a trend that diminishes every year. In 2002, the savings rate, which was 19 per cent of the GDP, is expected to be reduced to 12 per cent in 2013. In 2012, it was 14 and a half per cent, and the decline of 12 per cent in a year to 12 per cent would be highly thought -- a two point drop in a year. This is a very dramatic painting. In private cutting savings, the painting is even worse. Unless there is a cure for this development in domestic savings, growth will continue to be a problem in Turkey. Some measures taken in this area have, unfortunately, been inadequate. Turkey has become one of the world's highest-selling countries in the ruling Justice and Development Party. In 2002, the current rate was 4 per thousandths of the GDP, up to 10 per cent in 2011. Between 2003-2012, in ten years, the current was more than 331 billion, so many resources went abroad from abroad. Cari, growth in the open alone can't be linked to energy imports. Other than energy, there's a current open. The Cari deficit is extremely large, as well as its financing structure is increasingly degraded. No structural arrangements have been made that will reduce the domestic savings deficit, reduce the current deficit. Some measures have been taken, but they do not give us the expected results. The lack of domestic savings, the high rate of current operations deficit, has caused the wheels of economic and growth to rotate largely today with external resources. It has significant risks in its system. Turkey's external debt is $367.3 billion in the second quarter of 2013. The debt was $129.5 billion in 2002. The external debt of the private sector increased from 43.1 billion dollars to 252.3 billion dollars during this period. Another incredibly important indicator for our economy and for the private sector is that the open exchange position was negative 6.5 billion dollars in 2002, while at the end of the second quarter of 2013, it increased to negative 165.3 billion dollars. Responsibility of the debt does not satisfy these concerns and situations, nor does it satisfy Turkey's dependence on the outside and vulnerability. These are key indicators of how much our economy has become dependent on the outside today, its fragile structure. As a matter of fact, Turkey is at the top of countries that have lost most of its national money, the Federal Reserve announced earlier in May, and are most affected by the bond purchase limit. It is at the level of 15 per cent. In particular, there is a group called the fragile five, a group similar to the group known as the BRICS, which came to the agenda after the Fed's statement on May 5, 2013. Here we have Brazil, South Africa, Indonesia, Turkey and India. For reasons why these countries are evaluated in such a group, high current deficit rates, high inflation rates and declines in growth performances are shown. Among these groups, Turkey is seen in the worst economic situation since India in terms of inflation, and the worst in terms of the current deficit; this is the painting. Mr. Prime Minister, more than half of the Central Bank talks about gross foreign currency reserves that belong to others every Tuesday, but somehow when these numbers come in, the eyes and ears are closed. Problems such as the above public finance and domestic savings deficit are structural. Structural problems are resolved by structural arrangements, not temporary measures. In the 11 years we left behind, structural reforms, by the economy, are clearly frowned upon. In 2005, 2006, 2007, the conjunctive was extremely appropriate, and important opportunities were missed. As a small example, Mr. Ali Babacan, despite all his efforts, couldn't put the financial rule into practice. If 11 years of power is starting to open up the books of the old years, leaving the evaluation of its own time and today's important problems aside, then it's hard to say that the course is not good. Mr. President, I thank you, and wish you well in the budget, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0036par0304	Thank you, Mr. Oral. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0037par0309	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have exceeded the number of calls from the region since last night. It is known that every winter, the Hakkari side closes, including our district, which has been snowing once every ten years, including the village of Idil, Mardin, Siirt, which is known as the Silk Road, Mersin, Antioch, and Habur, which is the most important road -- there is a real disaster due to the snowfall of over a metre. We're getting information from every point that there are multiple vehicles rolling into a ditch, some running out of gas, children's patients. These images, they're the ones we just got an hour ago. It also snows five centimeters every ten years. But 50 years ago, there was a red snow, a great disaster; it was said to be more than six feet [2 m], and our elders told it, and we saw it when we were very young. When that disaster took place, the planes were throwing food away and the barley bags were being thrown away so that the animals wouldn't be destroyed. It's bound to be known by those who lived at that time. These pictures were taken downtown because they're trapped within a mile of downtown, and the only possibility is that municipal vehicles are now operating in the city centers. And these vehicles are the city ladle, which can't be very effective. When we look from here, of course the rain is a natural disaster. When we look at calls from the area, especially Silk Road between Idil-Nusasabin and Idil-Cizre. Again, between Idil-Midyat, the Greyders and bulldozers of Midyat City go to help, and they roll to the altar; over 100 vehicles remain between Idil-Cizre, over 70 vehicles at Balveren's side, 15 hours between the south and the south. Interestingly, this is a route that leads to and from Mardin-Diyarbakir, in a very important center, unfortunately the roads have been blocked and people in the vehicle for 15 hours. The village of Erzanih came on the last call from the village of Idil. The village of Erzanuh, where the nomads lived in Bagok district, where the caravan, the caravan, was left in the snow. Now, when we look from here, in such an apocalypse, in case of disaster, in case of rain, who's to be expected? The first thing that comes to mind is there's rescue teams, there's help. Of course, the highways come to mind, transportation revenues, the highways need to lead, most importantly, but unfortunately, my district governors and mayors, who I met in Şırnak province, have informed us that the highways still haven't reached these transit points. One thing that upsets me, of course, is that I want to make it very clear, that news has fallen from the southeastern land surrender. Schools are vacations in Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Mardin. Here, in Şırnak, the snow is over 1 meter. News of the isolated areas, the closing village roads... of course, Şırnak, Hakkari Mountain region, it's already a known fact, but that's what happened on the plain. Now, when we look from here, people, sick people, people on the road, vehicles that run out of fuel, and people who actually struggle to live, from Diyarbakir to Besta creeks, from the strong host to the Uludere, from there, news came from there -- of course, the highways are not enough by themselves. The Ministry of Health has helicopters -- of course the Ministry of Transport does -- that's when the Ministry of Forest Fire helicopters come in. In our area, there's a lot of Mashallah, Skorsky, Cobra. We're also discussing the Security Undersecretary's budget. I mean, these helicopters, these Cobras, you'd think they'd be able to take off and help with the humanitarian process. We're stunned. I called AFAD in the morning. I said, "Get me the General Manager. There's a ceremony over there." They said, "There's a ceremony over there." I've reached the Chief of Staff, and I said, "This is happening. Do you know anything about it?" They don't know anything about it. Let's make contact with our province, have we received an answer? They called for an answer, they were told that there was no demand from the province and that there was no demand from the governorship. Then, I talked to Mr. Atalay here, and I made the case: this is a serious situation, this is what happens. (After meeting with Mr. Atalay, it was 11.30, the last time I heard from AFAD, the Chief of Staff -- I'm afraid -- the call from the Chief of Staff, 12.30: we met with the Minister of Enterprises, we received new demands, we received funding. In a situation like this, we still don't have to pay attention in such an emergency, people, the patients, the fuel, the people, the people on the road, when you pay attention to them, to me with all the reflexes of a social state, when you're supposed to me -- I'm afraid -- when you're supposed to call an AFAD member of a member of parliament, after a meeting with a minister, after the ministry, and then we're still not getting attention to the mayor. So, 50 years ago, when planes got up and were throwing barley for both food and animals, 50 years later, could the world's 16th largest economy be caught so unprepared for such a snowfall? He's getting caught. It's just that when it snows, there's a crisis in Istanbul, traffic stops, schools are on vacation, Ankara is on vacation, but when you look at other parts of the country, it's okay. When we look at this, it is very important that a citizen replaces his taxes and operates primarily in such emergencies. Of course, some of these areas are in Şırnak, Uludere, Beytüşşebap, where there is a constant snowfall. Here we see some governors have equipped vehicles. The AFAD vehicle was given to him in the city of the Prime Minister. I think it's possible that all of the same cities in this situation were done in the same way as a Bitlis, a Van. Which is being delivered through the county's private administration, with the complete modification of the search-and-rescue vehicles. Why not? We really want to look for answers to the question, and this is very important in terms of how well expenses can be made. What we want to say here is that in this short time of speaking, our people have been in this state for 18 hours, which has been two hours, they've been in this for 20 hours, and we've been calling everyone to sensitivity. We'd like to ask Mr. Ministry to mobilize other relevant ministries as well. And we wish all our citizens to get out of here. All his screams must have found his place, his address. Hopefully, they'll get away with it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0038par0321	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0039par0326	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security budget. I hereby salute all friends with respect. Dear lawmakers, Turkey met a new institution on March 4, 2010 because of the Kurdish problem that continues from the founding of the Republic of Turkey to today and still remains unresolved. The aim of the establishment is to develop policies and strategies in the field of combating terrorism. Although it is described as being the main Kurdish problem, the Alevis now understand that there is an institution working on problem areas, such as the problems facing minorities. Therefore, the institution must first redefine its goals. Of course, the fight against terrorism and terrorism is on the agenda of many countries around the world today, and it needs to be on the agenda. But it is not right and realistic to see the Kurdish problem as a terror problem, to create a new institution to prevent it, to end it. Therefore, if the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is to carry out a study based on the democratic peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem, it is primarily necessary to accurately define its reasons, its purposes, and its problems. That is the main problem in Turkey, the problem is not defined correctly, there is a terror problem, the fight against terrorism is fundamental. If the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security really wants results, there is a Kurdish problem in Turkey, which should be said to be a problem with the adoption of the right to language, identity and self-government, along with the founding of one of the two fundamental citizens of the Republic of Turkey. If these rights had not been imposed, if the policy of assimilation and denial had not been implemented, the Kurdish problem would not have been a problem today. And again, the problem that is considered a terrorist problem today is the Kurdish problem, which is created by denial and assimilation policy, and the PKK is an organisation that has emerged as the result of this policy, so the PKK should be able to say that it is not the cause of the Kurdish problem, but the result of the Kurdish problem. And again, as stated in international contracts, such as the United Nations signed by Turkey, a people whose identity is denied the language has the right to revolt. Here, the Kurdish people have used their right to revolt 28 times, and the last one should be considered to be the 29th. And again, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security should be able to say that the Office of Public Order and Security has been established to carry out an important task and responsibility for the solution to this problem, which has led to great suffering and great tragedies that have been going on for 90 years. It should be said that we are on our way to accomplish this difficult and historic mission. We know that it is difficult to tell the truth to the people of Turkey, and in that sense, the work of Mr. Bashir Atalay is not easy. But as the Undersecretary puts three years behind him, the Kurdish problem and the problem language used at a certain stage must be abandoned because it's a language that makes it difficult to solve, a language that puts the process in trouble. If the goal really is to democratize and democratize Turkey by solving this historical problem and making it a powerful country of Europe and the Middle East, then the approaches to the solution should be in its own way. Language must be the language of solution; language must be the language of peace. The democratic solution and peace process, which began after March 21, 2013, has a 70 per cent acceptance and reciprocal response, despite the opposition of solutions, and a 90 per cent acceptance and reciprocal response by Kurdish citizens throughout Turkey. Those who approve are those who believe there is a Kurdish problem in Turkey and need to be solved, those who believe that we should live together, equal and free, those who love their country, true patriots. Now, to us, with so much response to the solution and the peace process in society, it's about moving fast, because solution processes are delicate processes. In both national and international terms, there may be those who want to sabotage the process and nullify the process. The January 9th Paris massacre is the best example. This is where our criticism is directed to the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. Spreading the solution into time, delaying it, delaying it, will expand the movement of forces that do not want peace, and will increase their hopes. The only thing that will narrow down this area and break hope is moving fast. Therefore, as one of the executive actors of the process, Mr. Bashir Atalay must bring the necessary legal arrangements to the agenda of the Assembly, as well as the legal basis of the peace and resolution process in South Africa, as well as in Ireland, to be moved from the dialogue process with Mr. Ocalan for a year. Dear lawmakers, there has been no conflict in this country for almost a year, the ceasefire process continues, the operations have stopped. No doubt the point of conclusion is important, but what's more important is after that. For a national and international monitoring committee to follow the process and to address public concerns, the journalists and academics' delegation must go to Imralı. Surely, those who do not accept the facts of life and life, who do not accept the facts of history and present facts, who cannot read the developments in the Middle East correctly and who live in the world of fantasy, will oppose what needs to be done and what needs to be done, but the process is the process that requires that those living in the world to see the truth, to analyze it, to achieve the right results, to continue on the road and not be wasted on anything. Because, in 2009, peace groups from Habur. They had created a great hope for the Kurdish people, for those who wanted peace and solutions, and for peace. For years, the meeting and hugging of Kurdish people, their children and relatives who have been fighting for a solution and peace has sparked a great deal of enthusiasm, but even the enthusiasm and joy that have caused parents to attack the public rather than to understand what had happened, and the process has ended. Then you couldn't resist these attacks as a government. However, as you know, peace is more difficult to carry out than war. To preserve and perpetuate your power, you've returned to the usual, tried, yet unreachable security policies. Since 2009, thousands have been arrested, more than 150 people have been slaughtered in democratic civil acts, more than 1,000 soldiers, police and guerrillas have lost their lives in the conflict in 2002 alone. Dear friends, politics and politics are a work of courage and determination. Now, if you could resist this resolution and anti-peace mentality with courage and determination, this problem would be solved today, preventing deaths, and we would be here discussing different issues. Dear lawmakers, January 2013 was the year that after the failure of the 2009 Habur process, it became clear that any security policy carried out has no longer been ruled and that the Kurdish people would never give up their rights and freedom, no matter how they came at it. We're talking about a new era, a new era. Now the process is the process of fast-acting democratic reforms. If the job of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is to improve the policy of resolution and peace, it should do so. Packages such as the democratic package, prepared by the Undersecretary and announced by the Prime Minister on September 30th, are not packages that will lead us to the solution. Packages that do not include lowering the electoral dam to prevent the representation of Kurdish people's political will in parliament, which do not acknowledge that the right to education is a right in the native language, which does not provide return to the village, which does not remove protection, are diversion packages. It is imperative that an international experience be carried out that quickly abandons this distraction policy and meets the high expectations, which directly affect the solution, such as the construction of the new constitution, the evacuation of prisons, the participation of armed forces in democratic political life. Dear lawmakers, the democratic solution and peace process has come to a very delicate stage. In our opinion, as a government, we would like to remind you that you face a historic responsibility for fulfilling your historical responsibilities because the process does not succeed is chaos. This country is no longer in a position to remove the new conflicting process and chaos of its people. Turkey's prospects for democratic public opinion in Turkey are also for solutions and peace. While the process maintains such precision, political operations under the name TK continue, which are the product of a wrong policy, as the process moves on its blade. Insufferability for democratic actions is extreme. The intervention of the police in every democratic movement, the act of civil slaughter with its attack, if not part of a policy, is probably what the Prime Minister calls an example of advanced democracy. In many talks, the Prime Minister stated that our democracy has gone further and further by the day. Just a week ago, Azeşit and Veysel Jessezı and Bemal Gunçı were slaughtered in Highova. There is no such example of a future democracy in which the Medeni Yıldırım, Ali İsmail Korkmaz, Ethem Sarısülük, Abdullah Atakan, Ahmet Atakan, Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, and Mehmet Ayvaltaş, were massacred in democratic acts; even if there were, there are those who massacred in democrats, those who are held responsible, they are brought to justice, but we, even though they are public officials, are very few who have been brought to trial, are being punished, as there are few who have been acquitted, or very few punishments. The price of this painting, as the government says, is not democracy. In this sense, the most important thing about the AKP is that it is a democratic party. Sooner or later, Turkey will face true democracy and radical democracy. In real democrats, there will be no democrats, criminals will never be protected by various concerns. Although the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has no operational activity related to security, the budget that has been separated is numerically important. The budget for 2014 is 20 million 944,000 Turkish liras, and is also a budgetary company for covered funds. The use of the covered budget in Turkey, as you all know, is not explained. We wish to use both budgets to serve peace and solutions for the benefit of humanity, he wishes, to offer you all again, with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0040par0342	Thank you. Van MP Nazmi Gür. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0041par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment on the budget bill of central management, especially on the budgetary budgetary bill of Afet and Emergency Management, and on the budgets of two institutions called the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. I salute you all. On this stand, many times, after the earthquake that struck our people, we spoke of the challenges that were faced by our people, and we offered suggestions to the government. We've drawn up legislation on this subject, and we've expressed public expectations, the expectations of the people of Van, and we've expressed our recommendations, our thoughts, both with the ministries, in this platform, but so far, the two major earthquakes in the province of Van -- October 23rd and November 9, 2011 -- have not been wiped out. Most of the initiatives we've made in this matter have been inconclusive, I'm afraid. So, they've still been fighting for about two years after the earthquake -- they're entering the third winter -- 100-120 families fighting for lives in container cities. The only thing these families want is for them to be assigned homes again in the post-quake period, because they claim to be tenants, and they claim to be tenants, and in this intense snow, under severe winter conditions -- unfortunately with their children -- elderly people, patients -- to the government, local managers there, especially the governor's knowledge, to have their electricity cut off and they're struggling to survive. Mr. Burhan Bey is one of the people who witnessed this, Van MP. He's following it very closely, and we know that, but we haven't figured it out yet, unfortunately, neither himself nor ourselves. Today, we have received news that Van City has applied for electricity to be powered and powered to be used there, and hopefully with our city's initiative, as if this cold winter wasn't enough, our people won't be there in the dark and the families there will be electrocuted, at least they'll be able to warm up with electricity. And our city will do so with great sacrifice. Dear friends, from the beginning, we, especially after the Van earthquake, claimed that there was discrimination, that there was always discrimination. Why? Because the first one, the expectation of all the people of Van after the earthquake, the public's expectation was on the declaration of a disaster zone, but remember, at the time, Mr. Prime Minister said that if we declare disaster, there would not be a single nail stuck there. However, the cities, boroughs, villages, were practically re-created shortly after the Marmara earthquake. The disaster was declared there, the state was put there with all its power, and its cities, its cities, its towns, its towns, its towns were rebuilt, and today people are in earthquake-resistant housing. Its economy has been rebuilt, its business owners, the business state, the government's measures, we can say, have been restored to its former state today. Of course, the injuries of the earthquake, the trauma, they're not completely huggable, but we think they're pretty much wrapped up. Van, however, did not follow such a course. For some reason, the government did not declare disaster there, and about 36,000 dwellings were built by TOKI and sold to the public. I'm not saying that it's been destroyed, or given away, because it's 20 years, two years without paying, 18 years back, and those dwellings have been distributed to their rightful owners. Of course, when the dwellings are being distributed, for example, it is better to say that the water has just been tied up in Edremit TOKIH, that it has been tied up a month ago, or that most of the TOKI dwellings have drained into the lake. The infrastructure problems aren't solved yet. Why didn't he declare a disaster? Because if he had declared disaster, there would have been a great burden of the earthquake on him, not on the people, but on the state itself, so that the people's wounds would have been healed faster along with the government's economy, so that the government would not have discriminated. Because we know that in the past, in the earthquakes in the Lake and Izmit region, a special law was passed; and by Law 4731, the tax of the merchant and the industrialist was abandoned. Despite all our initiatives, despite all attempts by Van's business, the Chamber of Industry and Commerce, unfortunately, the government has not chosen such a path for Van. But here we insist on this bench again: a special law for Van's business, for the trade rooms, for the industry's solution -- just like in the past, for Van's past coalition government, for development and development in the region, for economic development, for real. We, the party, proposed a lot of laws on this issue. I hope the government will take this into account and immediately enforce the law of this tax drop that will comfort Van's tradesman, his industrialist, really concentrate on development. It's the only wish of the Van people and the Van tradesman, the Van industrialist. Because, dear friends, this two-year tax from Van will be collected perhaps very little in the tax collection collected in Turkey. Its contribution to taxes collected in Turkey is around 2 per thousand. The pardoning of a two-point tranche, abandonment of this thousand, does not bring much weight to the economy of Turkey, but in Van, it restores the economy, the economic breakthrough in van, our tradesman, our industrialist finds morale, and so Van gets a chance to renew himself, because right now Van isn't really getting nailed to Van. Contractors, especially contractors who work in the housing sector, have not built a single dwelling in the past two years, except for TOKI dwellings. And you all know that that's a negative reaction to the Van economy. (x) A non-English word was expressed by the orator in this chapter. Once again, dear friends, in the van, especially our tradesman has finished paying taxes and insurance, they will now pay taxes starting next year. So, with the tax for the past two years, they'll also pay the tax this year, and the tax for 2013. The multi-tax payments will bend the back of our Van shopkeeper and especially our industrialist. For him, we, the government, our request, our request, our request, our request, and we, as the MP of Van. We repeat this request on this stand: that those who were harmed in the earthquake, especially those who were damaged in our business, our industrialist's tax debt and the release of tax fines, the Tax Act of Adding Values, the Law of Harçes, and the Organised Industry Law, will be made a change in this regard, and in this case, it will be as easy for the people in that area, in the earthquake, the earthquake, the earthquake, especially for Van. That's what we want, and that's what we want. Dear friends, again, the disaster zone... has presented a truly ironic example of what AFAD had done and how it worked while Mr. Hasip Kaplan was speaking. Ankara is in contact with AFAD, which means there's a disaster in a region of our country, and people are fighting for their lives, and they need to intervene, but the decision is taken from Ankara, not from Şırnak, not from Van, not from anywhere else. Without instructions from Ankara, the governor must give information from Ankara to receive instructions. We found out Ankara didn't have any information, and unfortunately, we, you know, we sent the money, we raised the funds there. Let them save themselves there. They're bringing them in. This is an extremely wrong organization. Especially in the face of disasters, we have had a very painful experience since the past when it comes to the immediate movement of the state's public power. In the Van earthquake -- remember -- for two or three days, this state did not accept international aid with the pride of being a great state, and therefore dozens of people lost their lives. A similar situation now cannot be intervened in any disaster anywhere until Ankara has decided. However, in modern countries, in democratic countries, the situation is different, all disaster-related institutions, all organisations are made in place. For example, municipalities, local governments, and some volunteer organizations established there have nothing to do with disaster management; they are excluded; Ankara is the judge of disaster management; Ankara is the judge, Ankara is the judge of what Ankara says, and often Ankara is the one who is the cause of disaster, and how Ankara is the one who ultimately makes decisions. So it's our suggestion, our idea, that we go to a proper organization about disaster. There is no doubt a central co-ordination; we are not against this; but in every city, in every district, in every district, in every district, not with general institutions such as civil defense or fire, but with serious institutions, because our country is an earthquake zone, our country is a flood zone, and our country is a disaster zone. It is very important to take this very seriously, and the administration must be given absolute authority, especially to local governments, especially municipalities, to manage disaster rescue and disaster operations, and the participation of municipalities in this area must be ensured, especially in terms of disaster management. Only some bureaucrats here, some bureaucrats living in Ankara, should be prevented from having a say in the disaster. Dear friends, I have no idea what an institution called the Human Rights Agency of Turkey is doing. Such an institution has been established, and what this institution has done so far, what it will do in the future, as a member of Parliament, my knowledge and public opinion is extremely limited, limited. We really want to ask, what does the Turkish Human Rights Foundation do, what does it do? We know, especially in EU progress reports, it's called a positive step. Other than staying a positive step in the EU reports and in this book, prepared again, the silent revolution, we have made progress, we have made progress. What works, what works, in which area of human rights, this institution has produced business and ideas, and questions are actually present. Our country has a report card for human rights. In particular, about freedom of thought and opinion, about meeting and demonstration march, about freedom of assembly and organisation, about freedom of faith, and about police violence that is almost traditional, this country, its report card is extremely weak. Here we have three citizens who have been killed by police fire at an event where the public's democratic response to social events -- which we consider a provocation -- will be expressed in social events. I wonder what the Human Rights Agency of Turkey has done, what has expressed, what ideas has expressed, what research has done, what study has done, in this regard, indeed the president of this institution, the only individuals who have created this institution, the members and the Minister of this institution, will be gracious to us on this matter. Did the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey really set up to improve Turkey's human rights report, to make radical reforms in the field of human rights, to respect human rights in Turkey, or to make progress in the EU progress reports or in the book you recently published, called the Silent Revolution, or to make it a silent revolution? Revolutions aren't quiet, revolutions are loud, and we're actually democratizing in Turkey and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We want legal changes in the field of human rights, especially in the interests of our people. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0042par0362	Thank you, Mr. Gür. Hakkari MP Adil Zozani, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0365	Mr. President, I demand that Mr. Nursel Aydoğan add the remaining two minutes to my time.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0042par0366	It was like a minute and 45 seconds. Okay, fine. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the heads of the Hanefi sect, TİKA, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Community, the Undersecretary of Treasury, and the budgets of the SEC, Capital Market Board. I'll start with the Undersecretary of Treasury, try to assess the policies and budget of the Undersecretary of Treasury. Now, since the budget bill has been transferred to Parliament from day one to day, and since the Plan and Budget Commission has been debated, we can evaluate the Treasury Undersecretary as the institution that has caused the problems of the Court reports that we've discussed a lot, as well as the Finance Ministry, because the state accounting system in that framework has determined that it will not submit a report to the Court documents that it has submitted to the Parliament because it has not submitted to the legislation. After all the discussions, we would expect that both in the Commission phases and in the General Assembly phases, the framework would shed light on the coming period, and in the coming years, there would also be improvements on proposals that could be the basis for a healthy transfer of the Court's reports to parliament in the coming years. However, so far we see satisfaction in the current situation, and we believe that any improvement in this matter will not be made by any legal arrangement. You know, in the Court's reports, the Ministry often stated that we presented 25 million data. What does that mean? Look for a needle in a saddle to the court. It is not possible for the Court, and the Court's auditors, to come out of it, unless you present it at the level of institutions. In detail, what should be done one by one should come to the House with the recommendation of the Treasury Department and the Undersecretary of Treasury. While the ministers are doing their presentations here, we're wondering if they're going to be any clearer about this, if they're going to be any clearer about it; they haven't brought it up yet, and we expect them to bring it to this stage. Because the budget and the Court reports we talked about this year are essentially a first, and since this is going to turn into a review for the first years, every word made here is important, and every promise made here will be highlighted in terms of the years to come. Therefore, any speaker who speaks about power, opposition, and opposition here should speak with the opinion that what anyone has to say on this subject will turn into a reality for the years to come. Therefore, the ministers especially have responsibilities in this regard, and we expect them to clarify. There is an absolute need for regulations in both 6085 and 5018, and legal changes are needed, and they must be shared with Parliament during these budget talks. We need to talk about what needs to be done in this Parliament. If we don't do that, we'll have to talk about the budget in the same vicious cycle over the years. I will not make any assessment of the TİKA (TİKA). From the beginning, let's say we protest the budget of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, both in the phases of the Plan and Budget Commission and here in the General Assembly. We don't see the budget of an institution that doesn't have us in it, we don't see it as legal, and we say it's impossible to approve it. So we close this chapter without opening it. With taxes collected from the peoples of Anatolia, Mesopotamian peoples in Turkey, we don't see the use of money to maintain an ethnic identity internationally, we don't approve our rights. So we don't open that chapter at all. One of the second important topics is the internationally related communities. We have no objection. In Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, other parts of the world, we don't question the relations of the relatives of a people who exist in Turkey, we also say that they should exist, but we want you to do it without discrimination. The more legitimate your relations with relatives abroad are for us, the more legitimate and natural our relations with Kurds living in other parts of Kurdistan, and you have to accept it naturally. While fences and walls are being built to sever our relations with our own relatives, I'm sorry about your policy with these internationally related communities, we'll question that policy.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0044par0378	What policy? There's no such policy!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0379	Gene, there's an important point: BDDK, the SEC thing. Gambling was legitimised through these institutions during the EC PARTY administrations in Turkey. The era of money being made into money has reached an extreme stage during this period of governments. Your Honor, how many gambling pens are there in Turkey? Do you take gambling only as roulette? No. The national lottery is a gamble, the lottery is a gamble, the horse race is a gamble, and you legitimized it in Turkey, and you took it to the extreme. You ride every day, you watch the horses every day. Therefore, it is not possible to say that your capital policy is correct. An economic policy based on gambling and interest is not a legitimate economic policy. That's how we open the title of this problem and leave it. Since there are so many institutions, I have to pass by with brief comments.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0045par0381	Is this a violation?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0382	Of course it's illegal, and unfortunately, a religious abuser legitimizes it in Turkey. It's already a tradition in Turkey, they make everything go wrong. At the time, Erbakan, who had died, was very opposed to Israel, where Turkey's international agreements with Israel reached a record level during the time of the late Erbakan governments. It's a habit that in Turkey, they make everything opposite and legitimize everything by contrast, and gambling has been legitimized by the EC PARTI governments in Turkey. As for the budget of the Hanefi sectary presidency, I stress specifically, the head of Hanefi sectal affairs. Because, unfortunately, in Turkey, other sects of Islam were also denied. The flame is denied, and the host is denied, and the kingdom is denied, and the Shafii is denied. They're all melting in this pot, the Hanefi cult basket. It's a classic Turkish-Islam syntax, where you can't solve this problem without questioning it, and in the current case, the budget for the Hanefi cult, which you call the Ministry of Religious Affairs, is not legitimate. Compare the number of doctors per person in Turkey and the number of religious officials per person, there is a gap in between. You prefer a policy that directs people to blowers and amulets, and then you come up with a modern, civilized, civilized, democratic society. As long as that's your policy, you can't talk about it. In particular, religion has been transformed into a sorting tool between the Anatolian communities. Travel many cities of Asia Minor, travel many cities of Mesopotamia, you will see a reality, the roofs of various religious places are next to each other, and you will see temples leaning on their roofs. That is in history, in this geography, in this ancient geography, the ancient peoples didn't deal with each other's beliefs, but grew up leaning on the roof of their beliefs. However, religion has become so much political material that we are now measuring the distances of the places of worship by measurement. Do you think that's true? Tuzluyer is your work, and you have brought the people and the people's faith so far to face. Do you ever ask yourself that? You have seen yourself so capable that you have the courage to describe the beliefs of people, communities, other than yourself, and you have the courage to do so. How dare you! Questioning people's beliefs, describing them, I'm sorry, not your place. Millions of Alevi citizens living in this geography describe their mosques as a place of worship, and if they accept them as their own, then it is up to you to accept them, whereas you dare describe millions of people's worship with your own religious understanding, and you fail to describe them. So turn away from this; it is not for you to work. In the 90s, you had gangs against the Kurdish people, and there were contrasts. You were organizing these counters in mosques at that time, and recently we see that the same activity has begun again. Again, the mosques are being tried to be the center of the counters. A new wave of attacks against Kurds is being developed against Kurdish politics. Do you know about this? If you don't know, we're telling you. If you're doing this as a central policy, I'd like to tell you that you're playing with fire. In history, Shafiillik and Alevilik were brought against the Kurdish people in particular to oppose each other on the axis of faith. Especially in this geography, in Anatolia, in Mesopotamia, in the Kurds, Turkmen, Alevi, the Shafii who slaughtered you in Kerbala. Such a policy was based on, such a separator method was followed. But after Kerbala, he himself was the Imam Shafii, who was exiled with the leaders of Al-Alemi, for he had taken care of them, while the deputy and his grandson were slaughtering against the Yezeith Alekis before Kerbala. You hid these historical facts, ignored these historical facts. In particular, you tried to turn the Kurdish people against each other on the axis of Alevi and Shafii sects. Fortunately, this setup is broken, and this setup has not reached its goal. What you did, your separative policies, they didn't work out. One more point -- I don't want to say that I don't have a tongue -- but if anyone's curious, open up the date. Today's separatist policies are no different from those who make sectial policies a political object, making beliefs a political object, and the deputy who massacred Kerbala, and Yezit. Today's separators are essentially followers of the deputy, Yazeit. This has nothing to do with Islam. This has no place in Islam either. One more important thing: I'm not going to pronounce the budget of the institution we call the Religious Affairs. We've been asking a lot...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0046par0389	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0390	Did you add my two minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0046par0391	We added, we did 15 plus 2.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0047par0392	Let him talk some more.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0393	I want to end by saying one more point. Look, we've asked a lot of questions, we've asked the minister about it, we've asked him to share with us the budget of the Foundation for Religious Affairs. I'm putting aside the budget of the institution we call the Head of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0048par0395	Your time is up, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0396	I'm going to say a few words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0049par0397	He's talking about some great stuff, Mr. President. We'd like to know a little bit more, in terms of the right to learn.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0048par0398	So do we, but we don't have any other options. You can also have a double date.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0399	Look, add 680 million a year to this budget to the chairmanship of the Foundation for Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0048par0400	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0043par0401	Add 10,000 real estate to this foundation, and you'll see the huge budget.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit01spe0048par0403	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0048par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Bill in 2014 and the Central Management Law in 2012. The commission is here. The government is here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0050par0006	Mr. President, excuse me...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0048par0007	Let me tell you something, Mr. Ozkes. Please... Congressmans, we've been taking a break from the merger, and we've extended it because we've waited for the minutes. I'm reading the transcripts, I'm reviewing the report on the objection of our concerned friend Mr. Nazmi Gür. I mean, it's sad, especially since it's being mentioned today... that a Van MP makes everything look like a negative or a disaster, especially without using a positive sentence.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0051par0009	It's a reason for bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0048par0010	If you'll excuse me... So for you, Mr. Secretary, he's called a prominent and grown-up MP. I was supposed to answer you in the same session, but Mr. Gür, I'm going to make an exception in this session once, if you see the sentence that ended with him describing you as a mature and grown-up MP as a tease, and if you insist, I'll give you two minutes as an exception. Do you insist or not?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0052par0013	Of course, of course we insist.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0053par0014	We do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0054par0015	Yes, we do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0055par0016	Here you go, Mr. Gür. Two minutes...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0056par0018	And thank you for the kindness of the Minister, but there's a taunt.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0055par0019	Okay, I've already taken care of that with Mr. Gür. We've talked.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0057par0020	You didn't need to take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0055par0021	I'm going to look at the books. I said, "Well, I'm going to look at them." Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we have great respect for the Minister. Every time he arrives, we know about his interest in Van. But I'd like to say a few words about what he said. An example of earthquake management in Van. Indeed, we did not witness such an example because we were excluded. Our municipality was sent to be an executive on our insistence. Insisting on Van's earthquake management, our municipality on disaster management, and we've been excluded as MPs, where we've been kept out. The van has been renewed. He said, Mr. Secretary. Well, Van hasn't been renovated, so when you see where the earthquake hit today, you'll see that it hasn't been renovated. There are, of course, several housing areas built by TOKI, there are new settlements; if that's what it means to be renovated, then it's really not possible to participate, because Edremit, the Department of Urbanization, told us with a note that the TOKİ dwellings were built on the most living fault line in the city. So he declared Edremit (Edremit) a no-man's land after that. I don't think our Minister knows anything about this. The water issue is very important, indeed, coming from 40 to 50 kilometers away, as part of a protocol signed by our municipality with the State Waterworks; it was a 100 billion-dollar water tender that our municipality would ultimately pay for. Again, dear friends spoke of the freeway. There are no freeways in the van. There's some work on the environmental path account, there's a project, but there's no telling when it's going to end. And when we met with the Minister, they said the publicization costs a lot. Van Metropolitan, you know, they're going to apply 18 percent, so they're going to seize the property of the people. We don't want public property seized. We're willing to pay a publicisation fee, and if there's a road to be built, we want a road to be built. Thank you. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0058par0031	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0055par0032	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0058par0035	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has just stated that he described his actions as a silent revolution from 2002 to 2012 and that he was booking them. I'd like to discuss two things. His books are here, the book of the silent revolution. The 1st EU Harmony Package was released in 2002 on 6 February 2002. Therefore, shortening the detention times, meeting with the defendant's attorney, improving press freedoms, improving the freedom of organisation, improving the right to a peaceful meeting, these were done on March 6, 2002. A mindset that makes what was done before them appear to have been done in their own time, says our time. The second issue, of course, is that what we did in our time was primarily aimed at opening the freedom zones of our republic-owning nation, to strengthen our republic, but the purpose and goal of what was done in their time was to eliminate the fundamental properties of the republic, and there is a difference of nature. In this regard, I think it would be more courageous for them to publish what was done in our time here before they could reconnect themselves with what they did.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0059par0038	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0060par0040	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0061par0041	Mr. President, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0059par0042	I'll take that too, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0062par0045	Şırnak MP Mehmet Emin Dindar made a speech on behalf of AKP Group. I got the transcripts of that speech. He says that if we die on this road...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0059par0046	Mr. Ozkes, are you making a statement?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0062par0047	Just a minute, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0063par0048	There's nothing about him, Mr. President. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0062par0049	...that if we die on this path, we will be martyrs.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0050	I want to know what you want to do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0063par0051	There's no explanation for the subject.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0052	What is your purpose?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0065par0053	Listen, listen, Mr. President, and he'll tell you what he's up to.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0066par0054	Listen, I'll read it, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0055	I'll decide what to do, Mr. Tanal Bey.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0066par0056	If we die in this way, we have faith that we will be martyrs, and we will be one of the ones who receive the good news of Paradise. Mr. President, this is a place of law, but it's no one's place to pronounce heaven or hell.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0058	You're making a statement. Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0066par0059	Just a minute, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0060	But, I mean, there's no such thing. Okay, I'll give you a minute. There's no procedure.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0066par0061	But now, what's the deal with the good news?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0063	Okay, thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0066par0064	With the AKP's votes? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0065	Congressmans, I'm trying to enforce the Charter as much as possible.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0067par0066	Mr. President, we've got work to do, budget waiting.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0067	Of course I'm human, of course I can be wrong, of course I can be in trouble, I'm human. I can go through what can happen to all of us. I would advise you never to make such a joke among yourselves. I'm just trying to run this General Assembly by applying the Civil Code. Other than that, I'll leave your comments to your conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0068par0069	Here, not comment, sir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0070	Now, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ will speak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0068par0072	Mr. President, are you going to vote for the good news of heaven? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0069par0074	Call a press conference!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0064par0075	I'm sorry, Mr. Bozdağ, the Minister asked for an explanation. Mr. Secretary, I'm giving you a minute's notice. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0070par0079	Mr. President, the Deputy Group President of the National Movement Party just said something. They didn't listen. In my speech, I actually said, "We took all of 2002 as respect for reforms, our time, because reforms, a few of the EU packages came out at that time. I said we took 2002 to keep that integrity intact.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0071par0080	No, sir. You said in our time.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0070par0081	He's our thing, we don't own him.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0071par0082	You said it was our time!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0070par0083	I said, "We've got the non-term part, too."
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0072par0084	He made a statement, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0071par0085	Don't confuse our time with yours! Yeah, we're in the clear.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0072par0086	Yes, we are, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0073par0087	Second, our era is a time when both Turkey and our republic have grown. The next decision or assessment is your assessment of the landing.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0072par0088	Thank you. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 2) The National Management Account for 2012 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives in 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account EMPLOYEE PIECE OF PEANUTION [[Continue]] 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012 Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, our Deputy Prime Minister... Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is nineteen minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0074par0127	A time when the nation's name was discussed, ethnic identity politics took place, when you turned yourself in to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and started discussing Lausanne, a period of destruction. Our term, you say, is our term.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0075par0129	Why are you getting so angry, Mr. Secretary? Why are you getting so angry?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0074par0130	Oslo is your reform, that's right. Habur is your reform.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0076par0131	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0077par0132	It's all ours! We own it. All right, it's all ours! It's all ours!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0078par0134	Don't hit the table, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0079par0135	Mr. Secretary is on the stand! Congressmans, Mr. Secretary on the stand, please hold your peace! Please!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0080par0136	We're not going to tear down the Republic.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0078par0137	Warn the minister, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0080par0138	We're not going to tear down the Republic.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0081par0139	I'll give you a minute, anyone can scream. Anybody can yell, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0082par0140	It's all ours, we own it, we don't deny it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0080par0141	Don't jump, don't jump! Don't jump, don't jump!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0081par0142	Time's up. I gave you a minute, and the time for yelling is over.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0080par0143	We will continue to decipher your dirty negotiations with Ocalan.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0081par0144	Mr. Vural... Mr. Secretary, I'm so sorry. Come in, we're listening.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0083par0146	Mr. President, I'm here to announce and respond to criticism from our government on the budgets of the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Communitys. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. There have been some very valuable opinions about my ministry here today, from time to time, criticisms, thanks to all my fellow lawmakers who express their opinions and criticism. The President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is one of our institutions that is the same age as our republic. The religion of Islam was founded to conduct matters of worship and morality, to enlighten the community in matters of religion, and to govern places of worship.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0084par0149	In the context of secularism, Mr. Secretary, in the context of secularism, say it. That's what the Constitution says.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0083par0150	Today there is an organization that has successfully carried out its services from the day it was founded in our country.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0084par0151	He's a secularist. That's what the Constitution says.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0083par0152	Our president and his team today have taken these achievements further. I regret to say here that in the previous years, when the budgets for the President of Religious Affairs were being discussed on behalf of all political parties, our fellow lawmakers would use very good statements about the state of the State of Religious Affairs, or they would have gone into silence, but unfortunately, I'd like to express my regret at this point.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0085par0153	Well, he doesn't deserve it now.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0083par0154	The President of Religious Affairs is a man who has earned the appreciation of the Turkish community with his knowledge, his wisdom, his morality, and his achievements.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0155	He's earned your appreciation. He's the one-sided president of the pleasure of the Diabetes Department.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0085par0156	That's your appreciation.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0083par0157	His service is obvious, and our people are well aware of it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0158	Let him pay for the corruption!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0083par0159	The Ministry of Religious Affairs is one of the cement establishments of our country's unity and unity, brotherhood, integrity.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0160	What unity and unity!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0087par0161	Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0162	You're in his head!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0087par0163	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0164	But let's face it, he's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0088par0165	The Ministry of Religious Affairs is not an organization based on religion, founded on sects, organized according to sects and sects.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0166	Tell him about all the corruption that's going on in there.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0089par0167	He can talk any way he wants.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0086par0168	It's all lies! Let the truth speak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0090par0169	The foundation and duties of both our Constitution and the chairmanship of the Ministry of Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0089par0170	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary, please... The MP on this stand speaks as he pleases under his immunity, and it is not your place to correct him. Please shut up and listen to the Minister. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0091par0174	But let's be honest.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0175	Both the Constitution and the institutional law does not allow the religious and religious establishment of the chairmanship of Religious Affairs. From the day it was founded, the Ministry of Religious Affairs carried out activities related only to the accurate description of Islam and the governing of the places of worship. It's extremely wrong to show the leadership of the Ministry of Religious Affairs with a religious axis and a cult axis.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0091par0176	It's a cult sheik!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0177	For example, there was an assessment of the Kerbala incident here. The Kerbala incident -- we all share the same pain -- was born in the Hicrist 61, in the militia 680, while the Imam Shafii were born in the hijri 150, and the miladi 767. So the history of the Shafii sect is an event that occurred a hundred and forty years after the Kerbela incident, and this is what the Shafii did with it. An assessment of this historical knowledge and real information does not allow. I would like to express in particular that it is our duty, of course, to evaluate through the right information. The announcements of the Ministry of Religious Affairs are sometimes discussed and are built on assessments as if they were political statements.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0091par0179	Oh, so it's his job to give a fatwa?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0180	I'd like it to be known that the Ministry of Religious Affairs does not make political statements and evaluations, but Turkey may also have religious connections to some issues that politicians have closely followed and discussed in public, and people might want to know what religion is saying about these matters. For example, there was recently an abortion debate. This is a legal issue, people who may look at it that way, but some people also want to know what is their place in religion. When they say, "What is the place of this religion?" When they apply to the Head of Religious Affairs, the President of Religious Affairs has to evaluate and respond to its place in the Constitution and within the mandate of the law. When people ask questions about interest, they have to answer. It's on the agenda of Turkey, the politicians are arguing, but on the other hand, because people want to do it, if he doesn't answer, he won't do his job. Doing so is one of the duties of the President of Religious Affairs.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0091par0181	It's not his job. You don't understand them, Bekir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0182	My dear brothers and sisters, a religious life investigation has been conducted in Turkey by the President of Religious Affairs. He got a lot of criticism. It should be considered that the Head of Religious Affairs -- a subject that should be appreciated -- is building his work on scientific data. If the Ministry of Religious Affairs had done a survey on agriculture, animalism, transportation, and other issues, then of course, is that your job? Everyone would have said, "Is this your job?" But it is the duty of the President to do a religious life research on the field of the Constitution and the law itself, to see how the people he serves look at this area, see how it is valued, and take precautions according to it. Such a study in the context of scientific data is unprovoked, unconquerable. In the past, many institutions have done that kind of research. We know that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0093par0183	He's doing it, but you can't go over his research after that? No. He's just plugging it in.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0184	For example, there is a study of TESEV.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0094par0185	What the hell is that?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0186	Sir, there are other agencies, universities, newspapers, research. The study of religion, Society and Politics in Turkey; meeting with the meaning of the Quran, ANAR; the study of Christianity in Turkey, KODA in Turkey; a cross-religion in Turkey, and so on and so on. He does other institutions, or he does some research companies. Why wouldn't the religion do a study of its own field? It's a lack of doing, and it's a lack of doing. I'd like to express that in particular.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0095par0187	Whose Flame and who's Sunni is your duty to the Dianet?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0094par0188	Mr. Secretary, this statement doesn't suit you, it doesn't.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0189	Of course, the prayers were also evaluated. Prayer is very important to Christians, Jews, as it is to Muslims, religiously, Islamicly, as it is to all people who believe in different religions.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0095par0190	You're doing it to tag the flames.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0191	Prayer is praised in both the Qur'an and circumcision, and prayer is praised. The Prophet prayed, the prophets prayed. Won't the President of Religious Affairs pray? Can he be condemned or criticized for praying at an opening or anywhere?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0096par0192	He can't pray in front of the President, he can't stand in front of the President, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0193	He prays, and a number of criticisms are being made over this prayer. For example, in Çanakkale, on March 18, 1915, he prays at a memorial service, and at one point in his prayer, Mr. President says: "Are we giving the souls of all our martyrs and veterans and the souls of the mothers and the fathers who raised them, especially the sheriffs of the Anafarta hero, to whom we read? That's a good point.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0097par0196	He said that once in his life.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0197	But is it right to do it everywhere? It's not.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0098par0198	The chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is the head of discrimination in this country.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0199	Because the place of prayer is important, the meaning is important. If you do these prayers everywhere now, there's no right thing to say to those who aren't religious figures, into those prayers, into every prayer.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0098par0200	It's the beginning of discrimination. You're the one who encouraged this.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0201	It's a proper prayer. When you read Mevlit, you pray to that reader.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0099par0202	Everything has its place and its time. You say it yourself. Everything has a protocol value.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0203	But if you get up and tell me why the name isn't mentioned everywhere, why the name isn't mentioned, it's abuse. It wouldn't be the right approach. We have done serious work in the days of our governments, concerning our brothers and sisters, concerning our people who have faith in Alevi. For the first time in the history of the Republic, a government has launched an official study. We've done seven workshops here, and in these workshops, both the academics and the academics were brought together, both civil society and politicians, both theologicalists and everyone involved in this area. For the first time, the government has agreed to deal with Alevi citizens.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0099par0205	What did the reporter do when he agreed to it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0100par0206	You're still building mosques in Alevi villages, mosques.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0207	We've taken a historic step. It's the first step in the Republic, this government has taken. After that, we took steps within the scope of this report on Madımak events. It happened in 1993. Then we weren't in power.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0101par0209	You're still putting pressure on the Alevi villages, marking their homes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0102par0210	You're still eliminating the Flames.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0211	People know who's in power. A lot of governments came and went, but they kept cutting back there.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0102par0212	You put the murderers and the oppressed in the same frame that burned Sivas.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0213	We're the ones who took the initiative to nationalize the hotel and all the places underneath the fire and open up a science and culture center here.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0102par0214	The killers and the victims are in the same frame. There is no example in the world, in the world.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0215	So far, a lot of our citizens have visited it, and we've created a memory corner and a library.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0102par0216	You put pictures of the killers and the victims in the same place.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0217	For the first time in our schools, in middle school, we have put in religious culture and moral knowledge textbooks the knowledge of the Aflame, as well as those who value the wisdom of our brothers.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0102par0218	Don't say brother, don't say brother!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0219	This is the first time we've taken this step.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0103par0220	No, Mr. Secretary, it's not like that. Mr. Secretary, you've cropped, you've placed 20 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0221	Again, look, we've taken steps to translate the Alevi Bektashi classics series...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0104par0222	You put the killers and the oppressed in the same frame.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0223	...and at this point very serious artifacts have been brought to Turkey, and have made committees, which have earned the appreciation of our respected and Alevi brothers and sisters, including them. For the first time, we've given a lot of work to Turkish in this sense, and we've taken steps to put side by side with its original text. As part of the Muharrem bear events, we took important steps to commemorate the days and nights that our Alevi citizens treasure. There are other things...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0105par0225	You degenerate, you degenerate the traditions of the Alevi!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0226	We have our steps in these matters. If I count all of them here, there's no time left for the others, so I'd like to say in particular that we've taken the most intimate, real, and concrete steps in this matter.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0106par0228	The most hypocritical, the most hypocritical!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0105par0229	You're a hypocrite, a hypocrite...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0230	We didn't do the word, we didn't do the word, we did the deed.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0106par0231	You're leading the most hypocritical, hypocritical policy, that's right!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0232	Now our Prime Minister has appointed new steps, and we're working on them. I'm going to say a few words about the mosque of Bezmilalem. Everyone said something about the mosque, about the demonstrators who went in there, but I wanted my heart to know that the people who went in there with their shoes on, they were found in a way that was unprofessional to the mosques.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0106par0234	Well, they entered Tahrir. Have fear of God. You support the demonstrators when they enter Tahrir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0235	...the one who destroyed them, put beer cans, cigarette butts in there, made them, and got drunk and there...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0107par0237	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0238	...about structures that kiss each other with women and men.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0108par0239	Mr. Secretary, does a person's life matter...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0107par0240	Congressman, what are you doing? Please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0241	It's a desecration...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0109par0242	Condemn the American soldiers, the American soldiers!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0107par0243	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Tünce...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0244	It's... it's dirty. This is disrespectful to the mosque, to the temple, to the values of this nation. But no one ever said a sentence like that. In this country, mosques have never dealt with such disrespect, such rudeness.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0110par0245	Mr. Secretary, U.S. soldiers entered the mosque in İncirlik. Why didn't you say so there? What happened to the mosque in İncirlik?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0246	Our religious values, our spiritual values, have not been brought to such a standstill. Here are the reports, everyone read the reports, see what's going on, see if anyone can get a closer look at them. My dear brothers and sisters, TİKA has given great help and great service. In 2002, TİKA provided 85m dollars in development aid, while in 2012, $2 billion 533m in development aid. When you added the assistance of civil society and companies, other groups, Turkey has provided $3 billion,436m in US development assistance, and our country's situation has risen from 6 to 3.2 percent in a millennium to the target of the millennium. As part of data sent to the OECD DAC (OECD) in 2012, Turkey was the fourth country to increase its most official development aid. Turkey has achieved great records in this area, great achievements. That's why the head of the OECD DAC Committee invited me and Ali Babacan Bey to join the DAC when they visited. We said, "We'll think about it." We've been knocking on doors, and now they're knocking on our door. Come, join us. From 1992 to 2002, the number of projects established by TİKA (TİKA) was 2,241, and the number of projects we had established during the decade was 11.447.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0111par0248	Are the projects involved in interfering in the Bulgarian elections?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0249	We're doing projects all over the world. Here we are, spoken here in the United States and here, and we have taken steps to build a water tank of a school that continues to be built in the Warm Springs Tribes Confederacy in Oregon. There was a demand from the Turkish Embassy, and we decided to build a tank to meet the water requirements of a school that 648 students would study, and we took steps to do so, and it became an important step.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0111par0250	Are any of these projects to split the vote for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms or not?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0251	In this regard, President of the Turkish American Council Lincoln McCurdy, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, also visited him, and they also told Mr. Kilicdaroglu how pleased the U.S. Congress and those involved were with him, and they know there. They also gave their thanks to Turkey, the Turkish government, and we're here to help those in distress. Those dams over there, they don't own those, you know, businesses. The United States has special protections for Indians, special means for them, special things, there's a great loss there. It makes their presence appear to be the presence of everyone. Is the dam in Artvin the property of all Artvinians? It's people's property. It's extremely wrong to just show a bunch of riches there. We took major steps regarding the Turkish world regarding Central Asia. Look, in our time, the total contribution to the Turkish world is 430 million Turkish liras. The total amount of aid made in ten years before us is 52 million Turkish liras. Again, when you look at it, the number of students from the Turkish world, in our time, now studying in 2013 is 5,832. The number of students studying in 2002 is 1,045. Again, the number of students who were educated in Turkey in 2002 from East Turkistan when you looked at them is 18. The number of students who were educated in 2013 is 687. The numbers are very strong. Again, we formed the Turkish Council to strengthen our relations with Central Asia, to move our relations with the Turkish world forward, to build the Turkish Academy. We have established the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad so that our ties with the Turkish world can be strengthened, that we can have better relations with our family, citizens and relatives. We founded the Dolphin Emre Foundation. We made Anatolia the agency of the world, not of Anatolia. We have taken steps to bring our relations with our relatives, our relatives, our citizens, and our citizens to a more advanced point in the world.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0112par0254	Why did you make an effort to divide the votes of the Party for Rights and Freedoms in Bulgaria?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0255	See, that's why our trade volume for Central Asia has increased so much. Exports of $630m in 2002 amounted to $6.1 billion in 2012. If we had ignored it, could we have come to these points? Turkey is everywhere. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was the first to go to Urumchi.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0113par0258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0259	When we look at the visits, we're everywhere. He's taking care of the trail, the works, the trust that our nation has given us, and he's saying that we carry it with great honor...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0114par0260	Mr. Secretary, you have made direct efforts to split the votes for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in Bulgaria.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0092par0261	...the president of the State Department, the TİKA and the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, wish you well, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0115par0263	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0116par0264	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0115par0265	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0116par0266	Mr. President, in his speech, he said the Republican People's Party supports and wrongly supports those who enter the mosque in a way that is not proper. If you'll excuse me, I'll make a brief assessment.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0117par0268	He supported me. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0118par0269	He backed me up. He didn't say anything, but let me promise you two minutes without teasing. That's the practice here, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0119par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, mosques are sacred to all of us, the house of God, and there is a rule to enter here, and no one enters here except those rules. However, while people were throwing gas bombs out there, while TOMA (there are people who are being sprayed with water -- men with women, heads open, their clothes may not be appropriate, but there is a disaster outside -- people had to take refuge here. If necessary, a Muslim can take refuge here, a Christian can take refuge, a Jew can take refuge, and an unfit person can take refuge, and he can take shelter in shoes. I don't see anything wrong with that because it's not something that's conscious, that's done on the way back from any kind of fun, it's a necessity. One, that's how it's supposed to be known. Second of all, let's not make this a topic of hot politics here, let's not do it. Look, they drank beer at the mosque, and we're going to broadcast the footage on Friday. It's been said, 27 Fridays, and there's still no footage.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0120par0276	Because it's a lie.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0119par0277	Seven months passed, two seasons passed, 27 Fridays passed, none of that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0120par0278	Because it's a lie.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0119par0279	You criticize the young people of this country, young people who have taken refuge in the mosque with their lives, and I don't approve of being entered with shoes, of course, no one approves of them, but you don't criticize the young people who have taken refuge here in the necessary circumstances, but you don't criticize the American soldiers in İncirlik, the American soldiers in Iraq, the Christian soldiers in Iraq, entering mosques with postals, guns, and making lay-lams there.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0121par0281	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0122par0282	Come on, man!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0119par0283	That's what I'm criticizing. You're going to criticize it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0123par0284	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0119par0285	Of course, I don't think it's right for those kids to go in shoes, but when they're mandatory... Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0123par0288	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0124par0290	Curse those who turn mosques into stables and curse them.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0125par0291	Religion says man first. You say man first.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0124par0292	We also know who turned mosques into stables.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0125par0293	▪ Man says, man first.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0124par0294	Pass it, pass it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0125par0295	You'll be human first, human.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0296	Friends, members of lawmakers, allow me to perform my procedure here. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0127par0298	Mr. Secretary misdirected a matter, I'd like to make a statement, and I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0299	What is wrong with information?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0127par0300	It's about the people who took refuge in the mosque during the travel events.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0128par0302	Mr. President, we can't hear anything.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0303	What can I do, fellas?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0128par0304	Shut them up.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0305	Congressmans, I'm warning you, I'm warning you with this.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0129par0306	If you'd like, give me two minutes, and I'll explain.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0128par0307	Remind me again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0308	Well, they're not listening, so what can I do?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0129par0309	Mr. President, could you give me two minutes?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0310	I'll give it to you on the stand if you get bullied. I'll give it to you on the stand. Take your seat. Mr. Commander, if you'd like to take your place, since there's no bullying, I'll give you a minute. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0129par0312	Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0314	Guys, I promised a congressman, so please treat him with respect. Thank you, Mr. Slim. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0130par0319	The minister said they drank at the mosque. A journalist from the AK PARTY first revealed that such a job did not exist in an interview with the mosque's imam, muezzin, one. It was revealed by a person whom they knew very closely and had friends. Now, again, people who will not be doubted of their Islamic references say it's a hoax. This has now become a black propaganda that has lost its credibility. I wish the Minister would avoid it. But while the Religion is being spoken, without fear of life, without any pressure of gas, there is a great disrespect to the mosque before the apocalypse has happened: Ankara is 50 in Ankara. You're setting up an ATM at the Mehmet Pasha Mosque.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0321	Thank you, Mr. Commander, it's been contained, it's been filed.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0130par0322	The interest is one of the greatest sins, and there is a sign. Here you make enemies of the husband and wife, and of the mother, and of the child, and of the father, and of the son, and of the farmer, and of the land.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0323	Okay, thanks. Yes, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0130par0325	No one's forcing you to do this behind your back by tearing down the mosque wall.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0326	Okay, but we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0130par0327	With nothing to force you into but a Neoliberal attack...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0328	But okay, put a stop to it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0130par0329	... what forced you to tear down the mosque wall and have it replaced by an ATM?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0131par0330	We're not a mosque association, man. It's not a mosque. Ask there.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0331	Okay, period. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0132par0333	Now tell me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0133par0334	We're not the mosque association, you're looking in the wrong place.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0335	Guys...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0132par0336	You're not the mosque association, but in the name of Religion...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0133par0337	It'll take it out of you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0338	Congressman...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0132par0339	The one who is in charge of the religion... also says: "He must act in a jealous manner. "
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0340	You've put a stop to it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0132par0341	There is no such thing in Islam.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0342	You've put a stop to it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0132par0343	What does it mean to be coy? You either refuse or you accept.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0344	Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0345	Mr. President, I spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the religious budget. The Minister criticised my style, the style of the critics, which I was one of the critics. Also, Mr. Secretary has distorted the questions I've asked and the issues I've been talking about. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0347	Mr. Ozkes, I listened very carefully to the Minister's speech. He didn't say a single word about you. You made a statement about your speech, and Mr. Secretary made a statement from his Ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0348	He was, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0349	Not a word about your person, not a word.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0350	He teased me about my tone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0351	He hasn't been found.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0352	He's been found.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0353	No, he hasn't. I listened very well. He didn't mention your name, he didn't refer to any sentence you said, he didn't say a word about you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0354	Mr. President, you're not just the Minister's President, you're my President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0355	You're welcome. I'm not making any promises. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0356	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0357	Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0359	Mr. President, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0360	Mr. Ozkes, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0134par0361	Mr. President, you're measured, pre-paid...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0135par0362	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0126par0363	Mr. Babacan, Mr. Secretary, a moment of your time. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0136par0365	Mr. President, you're not being modest, you're not being fair.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0137par0366	Mr. President, it's wrong for the Minister to be rude when the Minister is on the stand.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0138par0367	But I'll say one sentence, no more time.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0139par0368	That's rude to the Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0138par0370	Mr. President, there is no permit for the President of Dianet Affairs and the Mufti for the ATM established in the courtyard of this Ankara-based Mehmet Pasha Mosque.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0139par0371	Mr. President, it's rude to the Minister. Let the Minister finish the speech, then.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0138par0372	The mosque association has taken such a step despite mufti and dialogue. Right now, we're going to publish a phrase to make sure there are no such steps. It's completely disrespectful to the mosque.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0139par0373	Mr. President, this, Mr. Hatibe, is disrespectful to the Minister. Is that ever gonna happen?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0140par0374	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0138par0375	It's self-inflicted, we'll do what we have to do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0140par0376	The minister is on the stand, let's talk later. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 2) The National Management Account for 2012 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives in 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account EMPLOYEE PIECE OF PEANUTION [[Continue]] 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012 Here you go, Mr. Babacan. Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0413	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our government regarding the budget of our Treasury Undersecretary, our Banking Editing Board and the Capital Market Board in 2014 and its final account in 2012. I salute you all. Mr. President, we must take into account the global and regional conjunctive that we are dealing with while considering issues related to the Turkish economy. Turkey's economy is a highly integrated economy with the world in all its aspects, with free trade, free capital movements and increasing export volumes, with increasing financing movements. Therefore, we must consider global conjunctural and regional developments before we address our economy. You know, in 2013, in 2012, the world's economic outlook, the economic outlook of developed countries, the economic outlook of developing countries, all updated and...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0142par0415	What about the financial rule, the financial rule?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0416	...unfortunately, what did the global economy look like last year, and what does it look like today? There is a revision of about one point down. Moreover, developing countries will perform a lower growth performance over the next ten years, compared to the past ten years. Although developing countries will display higher growth rates than developed economies, we must also consider that the past ten years and the next ten years are different periods. In our region, especially Syria, but instability in many countries such as Iraq, Egypt, Tunisia, Libya certainly has a negative impact on the regional economy. The growth rates of nearly zero years in the European Union are, in fact, a factor to be considered, that the economy of the 18 countries that have created the eurozone has been narrowing down over the years. So, in this environment, we have to consider what's going on with Turkey's economy, what kind of performance we're performing, with the outside conjuncture. First of all, the elements that have differentiated Turkey from many other countries are the security and stability environment in Turkey. With confidence and stability, many jobs are getting easier for the economy, but economic stability in countries without confidence and stability is also very difficult to maintain. Here we can surely compare Turkey's performance at the point of growth to different periods, compared with other countries, but a comparison was made on the day of the opening of our budget; Turkey's economy has grown from 1946 to 2002; in the last decade, in 11 years, the EC PARTI has grown as much as this.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0143par0421	5,1-4,8; I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0422	First of all, if you look at this 1946-2002, you won't find the answer to the 1946 question easily, but if you go down to some numbers and look at it, 1946, just look at the date right after World War II. Leave that World War II history out, start from the period after that, and calculate artificial figures. If we're really going to do a comparison, we need to look not at 1946-2002, but at 1939-2002, so what kind of growth did Turkey display after Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's death and what happened in the last 11 years?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0143par0423	Did you have a war?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0424	Look, in the period from 1939 to 2002, the average growth rate of Turkey is 3.89 per cent. Between 2003 and 2013, Turkey grew higher every year by 4.87 per cent, almost one point above the average of republic's history. Bring those 1 points in a row, especially the geometric calculations, and the difference is obvious. This is a time when the world economy has seen the biggest crisis in its history. The burden of this 2008-09 crisis on developed economies -- the increase in the total debt supply in these developed economies -- and where it comes from -- is equal to the burden of World War II. In World War II, we are now seeing the same numbers as the debt of developed economies, compared to national income. At such a time, Turkey has performed this performance. Besides, it's not just in the area of growth, it's in the job. Look, I'm talking about the crisis again, and I'm talking about seasonal corrective figures. From April 2009 to 2013, the total number of jobs in Turkey increased by 4,739,000 jobs. At the same time, we're looking at the European Union, and the total of 28 countries in the European Union has dropped 4,4,000 jobs. At the same time, in 28 countries, the decline of 4 million4,000 -- these are official figures from the OECD (OECD) website; 4 million 739 000 increases in Turkey. Therefore, we must make a good assessment of who we compare with what we compare with and how we compare, and we need to be realistic. Besides, Turkey's economic success is now admissible in the history of the world, Turkey from around the world as an example of success. You can't erase it from the memory of the world's society anymore, it's in the record. As an example of success, Turkey, as a star, is both known and expressed by humans from one end of Africa to the other end of Latin America. So, in economic matters, what we've always said is that our opposition parties must always be careful, calculated, measured, critical. Because, really, it's a very important achievement in a very large area. Look, Turkey doesn't just grow, it just doesn't increase employment. At the same time, Turkey is improving revenue distribution. Again, I say from OECD numbers, I say from OECD reports: Turkey, in all OECD countries, is one of the five countries where revenue distribution improves, but not only one of those five countries, but the country where revenue distribution is the fastest in all five countries.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0144par0427	My peasant doesn't have any money in his pocket.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0428	Turkey, where the Gini coefficient of the entire OECD has fallen the fastest.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0144par0429	I ask my villager, I have no money in my pocket. He says, "There is no money." The students say, "There is no money."
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0430	Again, our successes in fighting poverty, where we come from in all the signs of poverty, are being followed and appreciated by the world. We've had reforms in many areas, we've had very, very important reforms. In banking, really, in 2004, 2005, 2006, we passed very important laws, and in our era, we paid the actual payment of the banking burden of previous times. You can fix the bank balance sheet on paper. What did they do then? The public banks and the sunken banks' balance sheet have been arranged, they've set up a treasure paper, they've put it in their balance sheet, and we've fixed the balance sheet of the bank. One day, that means the government will pay for it, and we paid for it. Look, I'd just like to share with you the amount of payment we've made in Turkish lira, and only in our time until the end of 2010: $117 billion, which was put into the bank's balance sheet during the trilateral coalition period because of the loss of bankrupt banks and public banks, and we fixed it. They say, "You fixed it with what, you put only paper, we paid for these papers, we paid $117 billion for all these payments at the end of December 2010. At the same time, we reduced Turkey's debt, reducing Turkey's budget deficit at the same time. On the one hand, we've cleared the past, and on the other hand, we've reduced the budget deficit and reduced the debt supply in our own time. Look, some speakers tried to define financial discipline. The year is 2002, the budget deficit, 12 per cent of national income; the 2013 budget deficit, 1.2 per cent of national income.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0145par0434	One night you'll operate and it'll drop to zero!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0435	Is there financial discipline in 2002, or is there financial discipline in 2013? With the numbers so obvious -- like I said -- we need to be very, very careful with our criticism of economic issues, financial issues. Besides, we don't paint a very pink picture in every area, we're talking about problems, we're talking about problems, but we're also trying to figure out how to solve our problems. Look, Turkey's net public debt, net public debt, so the public's net debt, after its cash values have dropped, is down from 62% to 15 per cent compared to national income; by the end of this year, its figure is 15 per cent. You're dropping the cash from the public debt, it's called public debt, down from 62% to 15 percent. You see, the Central Bank -- the figures announced today -- has reached a historic record reserve of 135 billion, 638 million dollars.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0146par0439	Here's 1.92...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0440	We got it at 28. Oh, you don't want me to remind you where it came from during the time before us, during the tripartite coalition.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0146par0441	What about the financial rule?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0442	Up 400 percent in three years. The value of Turkish lira has dropped to a quarter.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0146par0443	Tell me about the financial rule!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0444	Let's not remind them.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0147par0445	Mr. Secretary, we've asked the Prime Minister to tell him about our foreign debt.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0446	There was talk of extracurricular spending.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0147par0447	Can you tell me the state's external debt on the dollar? We never found out.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0448	Look, how do we measure Turkey's fiscal discipline?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0147par0449	We ask the Prime Minister, he doesn't say, we ask the government, you don't say.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0450	All over the world, non-interest balance is one of the most important measures in the business. We're looking at 2012, 0.7 per cent of national income; 2013, 0.9 outsources Turkey. In the world, right now, the non-interesting country is almost out of its budget; we're giving too much out of interest balance. In 2014, we have targeted 1 point, and in 2016, we have targeted 1.3. There was talk of TOKI. TOKI did not use a single cent of the budget during our administration. All of these TOKI investments you've seen have always been done in the same way that the government's real estate is being evaluated again. Not a penny of our money was paid for 600,000 dwellings.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0147par0452	Minister, they're not investments, they're not investments! They're not investments, Mr. Secretary. They're income, income; you're selling them, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0453	Once again, let's be very careful when we're critical of an institution that makes such value of such a zero. Mr. President, when we look at it, it's about Turkey, especially when we look at the next period, our growth model is a very important issue. How should Turkey grow, what should we grow in, and what should we pay attention to in what we call the quality of growth? We've always set priorities for next term. There will be investment in Turkey's growth, there will be production in Turkey's growth, there will be exports in Turkey's growth, but we always say we have to be careful about consumption.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0147par0455	Can you tell me how to produce it in 11 years?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0456	Look, consumption has to be proportional to income. We're always talking about debt, the risks of loan-pulling consumption, both in the household and in our macroeconomic balances, but what we're doing is we're taking precautions. We've made a lot of adjustments, and in the coming weeks, with new arrangements, we'll be able to make sure that this is watched in a controlled manner. The issues related to Turkey's external balance, the issues related to the current balance, are certainly important issues, but let's not forget here that Turkey's particular dependence on oil and natural gas is the main reason for this, and we are involved in very important work in both oil and natural gas in neighbouring countries. We have also explained our strategies on local resources, renewable resources, nuclear plants, energy efficiency, and we have also begun to work. As Turkey's external dependence on energy decreases, our current balance issue will grow and improve, and in the middle, in the long term, it will be a problem area. Again, Turkey needs to produce more added value. Turkey needs to take much more important steps towards innovation, branding, and to encourage high-increment value production, last year, we announced, you know, a new incentive programme, and we have really developed important incentives for investment in every six regions, and even if we compare last year with this year, there is a serious increase in investment incentive documents. We developed our markets in exports. Look, 2002, Turkey's total export is $36 billion, including exports to Europe, to the European Union, 60 per cent. The number of exports we received last year is 153 billion dollars, 39 percent of which have reached Europe, and our total exports in Africa and the Middle East have reached 37 percent.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0148par0460	Mr. Secretary, can you give me the import data?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0461	So, now, we've exported as far as the European Union as Africa and the Middle East. The diversification of this export is also the most important issue in Turkey's economy development.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0149par0462	Can you also tell me the rate of imports for exports?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0463	Now, I'm talking about current balance, external balance of payments. Anyone who takes a few months of short economics will know that both exports and imports are both revenues for tourism.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0150par0464	Tell me who got rich in imaginary exports.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0151par0465	Can you give me the import numbers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0141par0466	If you look at Turkey's foreign trade figures... In 2011, our current deficit was 10 per cent of the national income. We have reduced it to 6 percent in 2012, to 10 percent in 2011. So, we have instruments that will reduce the current deficit by four points a year, and we have policies to implement if necessary. And when we leave the gold trade out, we see that the current deficit, which was 6.9 in 2012, will fall to 6.1 in 2013, compared to the multinational income, when we keep the gold trade out, our current deficit is also falling. According to our Central Future Program, we predict that the total current deficit will descend to 5.5 per cent in 2016. Our savings rates are an important issue, and in order to increase those savings rates, we've taken important steps in both the individual pension system and the insurance system and financial education related to it. Look, even though the change in our individual pension system started on January 1st, the total number of people in the system is over 4 million, even though it was only a short time ago. Since January 1st alone, more than 850,000 of our citizens have joined the system, and the funds collected here have exceeded $26 billion. We'll definitely know Turkey's problems, but we'll come up with a solution. We will certainly be working hard to add new success to Turkey's success already shown by finger in the world. Mr. President, the valuable MPs, especially in the area of structural reforms, have been a period where Turkey has really taken steps very quickly. You know, in these last two years, we've implemented the Turkish Trade Law, we've implemented the Law of Law, we've implemented the Law of Law, we've started a whole new law on insurance in a very intense way. Again, we have put our new Capital Market Law into effect from January 1st. The stock market is the foundation of Istanbul. We have completed our legal arrangements for the establishment of financial courts. I've already mentioned the new investment incentive system. The legal arrangement for this, you know, we all did it here last year. We're sending a new legal arrangement for the Istanbul arbitration centre to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we're building a new structure to quickly resolve the conflict between the private sector with a structure of management, which is weighted by the private sector, again, to improve the investment climate in Turkey. We renewed our Law on Disaster Insurance, and during a period of 14 months, a total of 1,200,000 households, plus disaster insurance. After the new law, our number of insured housing against the earthquake increased from 4,800,000 to 6 million in 14 months. Now we've reached one of the highest rates in the world, and if you calculate that 6 million households today are insured against all natural disasters, including earthquakes, we've achieved a very, very important success there. Our arrangement for the non-banking financial sector, you know, we did it last year, we put it into effect. Financial rental firms, consumer financing companies, or companies, we've established a whole new legal framework for all of this. We've established the Angel Investor System, which is another name for it. We've established a legal arrangement for the direct partnership of the treasure to the venture capital. We've switched to the credit system. Right now, with the check lifted, all of our citizens' checks and bond payments are now kept on computers, public record, and while the relevant person allows it, those records can be accessed. His positive and negative credit record is now easily implemented in an online environment, even in a cell phone. All of these, really, are structurally important reforms that Turkey has done in the last two years. With these, I say that our country will go to a much brighter future, my respects and my love to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0478	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0153par0479	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0480	To speak against you, Mr. Mehmet Shandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0483	Why don't you give me a say?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0484	Because we've talked about it before.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0485	I've been bullied, twisted, look, you're talking about national will here, but you're using national will in your own way. You're doing it wrong, Mr. President. He says to me, he tells me everything...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0487	Now, Mr. Ozkes, I repeat...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0488	Even if you do it again, you're not doing it right.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0489	Mr. Secretary Bozdağ has said nothing to enter into the status of bullying about your person and what you're saying.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0490	He picked on me so well!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0491	He didn't say anything...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0492	I mean, he's so resourceful, he makes it so neat that you can't...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0493	I've seen this before...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0494	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0495	Look, now that you've talked, you've said it, now I'm talking, if you'll excuse me. I told you I wouldn't promise, and I told you why...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0496	I know you won't promise me, but you're not doing it right!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0497	And now I've called another speaker to the stand. Please don't force me to exercise my rights from the Charter. Otherwise, I'll have to follow the last joke of the 69. Please... I'm applying for the General Assembly's vote.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0154par0498	You're welcome to do it, then!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0152par0499	Okay, I'm applying for the General Assembly's vote. I don't want to make a promise to Mr. Ozkes, and I'm offering this to the General Assembly's vote. About my attitude, if I didn't promise...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0155par0501	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0156par0502	That's it!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0157par0503	At least put my parliamentary office to their votes, let me out! That can't happen!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0158par0504	Yes, I'm applying 69, you insist, I'm presenting the General Assembly to the game...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0156par0505	Oh, come on, that's a shame!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0157par0506	I'm telling you there's a tease, you're not listening!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0158par0508	I'm not promising Ozkes. Those who accept my position...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0159par0509	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0158par0510	Did you ask for a sufficient number of decisions? Okay, I'm looking for enough to decide. I'm voting electronically. Please enter the system. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0160par0512	That's Justice of the AKP!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0161par0513	There's rules, there's rules, there's law, Hajji!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0162par0515	Mr. President, the number of decisions that are sufficient is to determine whether there is a crowd in the General Assembly at the time, a momentary detection. You can't vote like that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0163par0516	Why can't I?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0162par0517	By raising your hand, it's enough to determine the moment. That's the only way you can get enough meetings, you're making a mistake. Mr. President, you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0163par0519	Mr. Korkmaz, okay, I'm handling it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0162par0520	Deal with what?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0164par0522	Time's up.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0165par0523	Mr. President, basic rights and freedoms cannot be put to a vote.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0166par0524	Thank you, you accepted. Thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0167par0525	You're history, Mr. President, history!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0166par0526	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0168par0527	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0169par0528	Mr. President, time's up.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0170par0529	Mr. President, explain the verdict.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit02spe0171par0530	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I have a brief statement to make. Mr. Ozkes has just insisted on making a statement. So, because he insisted, because it was an unprovoked demand, I applied for the General Assembly's vote, and I'm reading it in the exact report: I'm not making any promises to Özkes. Those who accept my attitude... I said. After that, we found that 199 people accepted my attitude, my non-profit attitude toward Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0172par0007	That wouldn't happen, Mr. President. No, sir!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0173par0008	Let's get it done, guys. Let's get it done.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0009	By the way, we've been asked to make a decision, and we've found it. I, first of all, thank the lawmakers who have accepted my position, but to avoid further discussion, we are in the early days of budget talks, and I promise Mr. Ozkes. I'm just saying, let me be the bigger man.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0174par0012	It's not like that! What greatness, you have reduced the office!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0013	Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0174par0017	This is the first time you've reduced this office, the first time you've reduced it! It's greatness! What size!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0175par0018	Mr. President, am I starting?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0019	Begin.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0175par0020	Start it up.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0021	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0175par0022	What kind of a minute?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0024	Mr. Ozkes, please. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0176par0026	Don't talk, Hajji. If it's a minute, don't talk.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0177par0027	Mr. President, I just saw 01.58, and then I said start again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0028	I said one minute. That could be a technical malfunction. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0178par0030	Don't talk, Hajji, don't talk! Don't talk, don't talk!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0031	He's running out of time, Mr. Ozkes. Let's go again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0033	Just a minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0171par0034	I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0036	You didn't say it, but you didn't say it there.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0180par0037	Teacher, don't say a word. If it's a minute, don't talk.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0038	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0181par0039	How the hell are you gonna pay for all these people?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0040	I'll keep the greatness, the president said. Allah is great. Right is the helper of truth. I thank God, and thank God.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0182par0041	What are you going to do to him?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0042	Now, Mr. Secretary has mentioned that my tone is not true to Mr. Chairman of Religious Affairs. Mr. Secretary, 21 months ago, I made a motion to question the allegations of the corruption of 14 million,500,000 Saudi Arabia hypocrites. Why isn't there an answer, Mr. Secretary? I'd be very happy if you'd answer that, please, today. Mr. Secretary says that he makes the statement of the abortion, the President of the Religious Affairs. I say he does, because there's nothing more natural than the President of Religious Affairs giving a fatwa. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But, Mr. Secretary, were you at this meeting or not? Did he look you in the eye, and give you the Book of Allah, looking at the Qur'an?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0183par0046	Thank you. Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0047	I mean, you made a promise, but you made it up my nose, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0183par0048	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0050	You gave me Kerhen, and you brought me out of my nose! That's how big you are!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0184par0052	Learn that God is not thanked, but is praised.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0179par0053	I'll teach you. It's the same word as "thank you" and "thank you" and "thank you" and "thank you."
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0184par0054	No, it's not! You find out, come on. Okay, you didn't find out.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0185par0055	Mr. Ozkes, members of the law... Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0186par0057	Mr. President, I put my attitude to a vote. You have no right to say that. The last joke of 69 is clear: if anyone resists who is not promised in the presidential language, the General Assembly will not discuss it and decide by sign vote.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0187par0058	There's an attitude here, there's an attitude.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0186par0059	So, you're not voting for attitude, you're voting for commitment. 69 is very clear. An attitude is a matter of procedure. Let me keep the greatness, and I voted my position. You're acting in an irregular manner and I'd like to open up a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0188par0060	Against you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0186par0061	Against you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0189par0062	Against you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0190par0063	Against you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0191par0064	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0192par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0193par0066	Now, I've seen no irregularities in my attitude, but since you're demanding...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0194par0067	Against you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0192par0068	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0195par0069	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0196par0070	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0197par0071	Against Muharrem İnce, in favor of Mr. Mustafa Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0198par0072	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0199par0073	Look at the reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0197par0074	Decide whether he's against it or against it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0198par0075	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0200par0076	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0197par0077	Mr. Ağbaba in Poland, against Ahmet Aydın. Here you go, Mr. Slim. Three minutes...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0201par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, you can vote for the General Assembly whether a member of parliament should be made a promise to him, you have the right to do so, but this is a very rare method. I haven't seen an app like this in 11 years, not as big as the fingers of a hand. Another one, you're having an argument. One of the traditions of this House is that you invite the members of the group of the four parties in, you make an assessment. Do you vote whether to make promises or not? Do you vote on the position of the president? You don't even invite members of the group and do that kind of consulting. I mean, what am I supposed to fix? There's a whole chain of mistakes going on, so you're voting on a very rare method, not having a consultation with the group's vice presidents in the back room. We can assess the voting of AKP lawmakers in two ways. One: love of democracy. The freedom of a congressman is not restricted, the right of the bench is defended. Ihsan Ozkes was wronged, we want to promise him by the General Assembly's will, we stand behind him to the end. One, it can be interpreted like that, it's very respectable. The other is interpreted as: No matter what they say, acceptance is the right of power; we were outside, we came in, we voted in. Choose, which one did you use? So, one, are you using the content of the game without knowing what it is, or are you voting that our friend Ihsan Ozkes, Mr. Ozkes, with the love of democracy, should be promised? Again, another: Mr. President, you have no right to vote when you're asked for a sufficient number of decisions. Did you ask the court members? Is there some sort of conflict between them, or is that what you're doing? I mean, your apps from top to bottom... There's another one: you took a vote, there's a process going on. As the process goes on, you get the results of the vote, you take a break without explaining the outcome, without finishing the process. I mean, the chain of wrongs. You don't consult members from the beginning, you perform a rare action, you take a break before you finish the process. Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong! I object to your attitude, and I demand that you correct it. In accordance with the Civil Code of Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying it's the wish of all lawmakers. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0202par0093	In his favor, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Article 69 of the Civil Code is open. Mr. President, under the insistence of the speaker, he used the authority vested in him by the Civil Code to seek the decision of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0097	Voted for what, what?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0098	And while he's looking for his decision, he says, "This is my attitude. I don't want to give the speaker the right to speak. Those of you who accept my attitude... say.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0099	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0100	As a matter of fact, the 199 MPs who accepted the President's position voted in the same parallel.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0101	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0102	There is no clear judgment concerning who is misunderstanding, what is the meaning of the Civil Law, and where it comes from. If Mr. President had said so, it might have been so, but those who agreed to my decision on this matter say so.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0103	No, it's not like that!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0104	The 199 MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly could be Republican People's Party, could be from other parties...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0105	There's no such thing. Mr. Elitaş, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0106	He's read the report now.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0107	No!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0108	Mr. Aslanoglu read the report.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0109	No, it's not like that!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0203par0110	He read the statement, Mr. President, he read the report.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0111	I'm sorry if there is. If he said something like that, I'd be sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0205par0112	Look at the transcripts, then!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0113	Drop the report! I called it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0206par0114	Mr. President has raised the issue of his own decision.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0115	I called it!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0206par0116	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0117	He didn't say that!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0206par0118	...what we're talking about right now is a conversation about the Civil Code. I love Mr. Aslanoglu, a good friend, a friend of ours, we've been acting as legislators for many years, but what he means to me now is completely against the Civil Code. Mr. Aslanoglu, in the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0120	I'm telling you, he didn't say that!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0206par0121	Look, you're still acting against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0122	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0206par0123	And thou shalt find a letter in the house of the house of the house of Judah, and I will kiss thee on the forehead, and I will bring thee the apricot, and I will bring thee the apricot of Malatiah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0204par0124	Mr. Elitaş did not put himself to the vote, he presented the speaker.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0206par0125	No, he read it. Right now, you're still acting against the Civil Code. Look, dear MPs, I'm afraid there are no Civil Codes left in the 24th term of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We've established the Civil Charter Commission. The Civil Charter Commission, hopefully, has a number of articles on the 165-175 clauses it agreed to hold its final meeting after the budget is finished, which will bring up its final opinion on the matter as Speaker of Parliament. I hope and wish that the violations of the Civil Code so far... now, if possible, I wish. All political parties have a will to rewrite the Civil Code. There's one or two things we don't agree on, and if we can agree on one or two of those things, we'll make a new Civil Code. Now, Mr. President, who has taken over the Civil Code... I want to speak here. The right to say so has not been seen in practice so far. The minister made a statement, and he misled public opinion in the face of the statement. • Precious MPs, public opinion is watching us. The opposition says something, the power says something. The talks of the opposition to power... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if it's true or not, the public will show their appreciation in the chest and show you how you voted. I salute all of you and express that the President's attitude is correct.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0207par0132	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. According to the reports, the second word against İhsan Özkes is İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0208par0135	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's face it, here we have divine justice. The Justice and Development Party -- I've been here for two and a half years -- seemed to have taken a stand for justice by mistake for two and a half years, and they didn't accept it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0209par0137	Cehven justice.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0208par0138	Now, my word was interrupted, and I'm saying I'm a retired mufti. What does mufti mean? It's the one who gives a ruling. And, of course, the president of the Diabetes Department gives a fatwa. However, for seven or eight years, Religious Affairs doesn't mention abortion during the Vice President's term.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0210par0139	If he had told me five years ago, he'd have been on trial at the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0208par0140	Sir, he's president of Religious Affairs for about two years, and he's not talking about abortion again. When the Prime Minister says every abortion is a Uludere. After that, at the meeting of the mufti -- in which Mr. Minister is in -- he gives a fatwa by looking at the Minister's eyes. I say, it's political. It is not political to give a fatwa; it is political to time it and to give a fatwa by looking into the minister's eyes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0211par0141	He's gonna ask you when?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0208par0142	Now, I'm saying that the President of Religious Affairs is polling, saying: "Are you Alevi, Sunni? Are you Sunni?" God will not ask you again in the presence of God tomorrow whether you are Alevi or Sunni? How can you ask that?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0212par0144	Don't scratch! Don't scratch!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0208par0145	He says, sir, that he remembered Ataturk somewhere. Good, nice to meet you. Well, on October 29th, on November 10th and on days like this, no mosque is remembered in any mosque. I say to the Minister: "Why don't you remember?" Mr. Minister says to me: "It's abuse to ask it not to be remembered." I mean, when I say, "You won't remember Ataturk," you say: "Why don't you remember?" The shoe thing...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0213par0147	You're talking about the legal debate, Mr. Ozkes, you're talking about the procedural debate.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0208par0148	The greatest and greatest creation of God in the world is man. There is no greater being than man, and there is no more. And on the great one was the black Ethiopian, and the Ethiopian, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king, and the king. There's a message from this. (CHP) It was in the presence of the Prophet, who was against him. What does that mean? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Even the Kaba is no better than man. Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0214par0153	Was he against it or against it, Hajji?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0215par0154	I'd like to thank you for your words about the formal debate. It's about to happen, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0216par0157	Mr. President, you can look at the transcripts, I asked for them before Aydın. Bring in the transcripts, let's see.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0215par0158	We've got the transcripts, we've seen them, folks.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0216par0159	I asked for it before Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0215par0160	We're moving from the transcripts. Please, Mr. Tanal!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0217par0161	There is no such procedure, Mr. President. They're still doing their own irregularities in the formal debate.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0216par0162	No, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0215par0163	Everyone's objecting to something, honey. What is it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0216par0164	Look, bring in the transcripts. I've asked for your attitude before, before Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0215par0165	We've brought the records, we're treating them right. You guys go get it, look. That's enough, honey. What is this? Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0218par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, all the public is watching us. He's just made his speech here that says he's a retired mufti, and every time he's on the stand, every time he's on the stand, when he's speaking, I really think he's talking in a sense of a teacher, a retired mufti, isn't that right, you're witnesses. The kind of talk that suits a mufti! A speech in a segregated language, a speech that provokes, a speech that violates all the rules of religion, of dialogue. I'd like to say that I don't look like a mufti. It can be used in a kinder, gentler language.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0219par0170	Work, work, you can have it, you can have it. It takes guts, heart!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0218par0171	Second. Mr. President, you've just said what kind of testimony you're using from the transcripts, you've enlightened the General Assembly about this, and I thank you, and so far, you're running this House in a spectacular fashion. [HIP rows ▪Bravobooks, applause!] And I want to thank you for your management so far. You're doing the best you can, and I'm saying this sincerely, and while you're going to vote here, not the person involved, you asked the General Assembly while you're voting here: do you or do you not find my position justified? Yes, the General Assembly has accepted your position, and therefore, you should not have made any promises, but you have given a right to make a statement, according to Article 69. So we acknowledge that your attitude is correct, and we thank you. Likewise, dear friends, now some polls are being conducted in Turkey. All organizations do this; NGOs do that, university research centers do that, so, you know, there's a bunch of different surveys, maybe ethnic structures, maybe belief groups. Everyone's doing it on the eye, but it's right at the top of the job, and when Diyanet does this survey, there's always screaming, especially by a mufti. If he's not going to do this, who's going to do it, for God's sake? So, dear friends, I mean, the Diyaneti... which we've just seen, again... don't exploit them here, including Ataturk, don't engage in politics.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0220par0174	Mr. President, would you mind warning me, the procedural debate...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0218par0175	All of these things are common value to all of us. In light of these common values, our ideology may be different, but I say, please, let's not use these common values to our own politics, and I salute you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0178	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0222par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0180	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0222par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0223par0182	It's not the custom to interrupt when the president is talking.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0183	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to have a word with you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0223par0184	You don't have any rights, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0185	If you'll excuse me, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0224par0186	Not at all, sir. Not at all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0187	Congressmans, the talks on the procedure debate are over.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0225par0188	There's bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0189	When I opened the merger, I made my statement, which I did on the basis of the transcripts, but if there are any objections, I suggest they read the transcripts again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0226par0190	Read it again, Mr. President. Mr. President, read it again and let's hear it again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0191	A brief note: While we were having these talks in the back, Mr. Tünce, your party's clerk and supervisor were with us.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0226par0192	To find a solution.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0193	I want to tell you that, too.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0227par0194	Meetings are held by members of the group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0228par0195	We'll listen, we'll listen, we'll listen.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0196	And I'd like to point out that there's been no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0229par0197	Mr. President, read the report again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0198	We'll continue the negotiations from where we left off.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0230par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0200	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0230par0201	The president of the AKP Group, Mr. Aydın, has just publicly insulted me in a way that is unbecoming of a mufti.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0202	What did he say?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0231par0203	You insulted the President of Religious Affairs. You're doing this, too. What else are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0230par0204	He said that I spoke in a way that would not suit a mufti, that would never, and that I would never speak to a mufti, that would not suit his manner, and that you would listen.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0205	Should we go back to the beginning now?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0230par0206	No, I won't. I'll just keep the size.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0207	Okay, tell him from here, we're listening, so he's on the books.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0230par0208	He teased me, and I want to put it on the record.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0221par0209	Okay, he's on the books. Is that all right? Okay, guys?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0230par0211	Thank you, thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 2) The National Management Account for 2012 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives in 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account EMPLOYEE PIECE OF PEANUTION [[Continue]] 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0232par0247	Yes, members of parliament, we will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is here. The government is here. I understand the Minister has an explanation. He has a request according to 60. Two minutes... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0233par0255	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are questions in the religious life survey conducted by the President of Religious Affairs. Regarding these questions, a question was asked whether you were Alevi or Sunni. The expression was used. I have in my hand a survey, whether you are Alevi or Sunni? There is no question, just which sect do you feel you belong to? (CHP rows) This is to learn about people's attitudes at this point. There is no question whether you are Alevi or Sunni. Here's the poll. I wanted to fix it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0234par0258	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0235par0259	Are you there, Alevi, Jaferi? All sects are counted, and he is asked.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0234par0260	Congressman, Mr. Ozkes... Mr. Tüt, please, can you help your congressman friend, we'd like to continue his budget negotiations. Thank you. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 2) The National Management Account for 2012 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives in 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account EMPLOYEE PIECE OF PEANUTION [[Continue]] 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012 I'd like to make an announcement that we're about to proceed with a question-answer procedure. But, by the way, the names have been erased because we took a vote. I'm reading the names on the list that's already been distributed, and I'm asking my fellow lawmakers to go back into the system. Mr. Light, Mr. Akar, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Gök, Mr. Tançay, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Tüzel, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Light, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Ada, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Calkavan. If these guys get into the system, I'll give them my word on the QA. Now, on behalf of Mr. Mehmet Shandir, MP of Mersin, I promise to speak against you in five minutes. I'm sorry, we announced you first, then we sat you down, but... it's the natural practice of Congress, mathematics. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0236par0303	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency in the third round of the 2014 budget and the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. First of all, I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, these two institutions have been charged with very important tasks for the future of our country and our nation, and, in my opinion, our two distinguished institutions, who are doing very important services. Therefore, we can't find the budget of these two organizations adequate. That's my opposition. These two organizations, who are going to do such important tasks, need a lot more budgets. I would also like to suggest and recommend that the valued executives who run these two organizations will raise these services to the maximum as possible and make them as central to the Turkish world. And I thank them for their service so far. Dear friends, the Turkish world is a very important fact of the world. We've said many times here that it's impossible to manage Turkey by ignoring the Turkish world. One of the most valuable decisions in our republic's history regarding the Turkish world is the founding of TİKA. In 1992 -- the rulers of that day -- God bless them -- were founded during the Prime Ministership of Mr. Süleyman Demirel, the late Ozal, during the presidency of the President of Ozal, and so far, the Turkish Republics, particularly in the process of the establishment, have served very intensively. Today, I also care that these services have been carried to every geography of the Turkish nation's acquisitors, but in today's world, I also recommend that the Turks, the most vulnerable, the most oppressed nation of mankind, know to be in the service of Turks outside Turkey as a priority, and I know that they will do very important services at this point. In both the Turkish world and the Ottoman geography and the great Seljukian geography, in these geographys where our descendants lived yesterday, I ask them to take away the best and greatest of service to our relatives who paid the price of our yesterday's bills. The president of the international Turkish and related communities -- let me tell you one wish -- should have been founded as the ministry of the Turkish world, we have worked as the National Movement Party Group, we have a proposal for law, and I thank them again, Mr. Minister, who pioneered his establishment here. I care deeply about our organization's programme on students, especially students from the Turkish world, and I find it very valuable. I'm saying this again: students from the Turkish world who come from relatives demand that they do it based, and I recommend that they do it. Dear lawmakers, again in 1992, the programme for bringing students from the Turkish world, launched during Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel, is a very valuable, very important project in the history of the republic. As part of this project, 41,226 students have been brought to Turkey -- brought to Turkey from about 151 countries -- have been educated, graduated, and sent to these geographys as friends of Turkey. Therefore, I care deeply about the continuation of this service. By the way, I also hope that the Turkish Assembly, founded under the leadership of our late Alpaslan Turkeş, Basbug, is worthy of further Turkish conventions, which began in March 1993, because I find that the Turkish world is coming together in these Turkish conventions to discuss the future of Turkicism and to discuss it and create a vision. I wish you good fortune and good fortune in the budget, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0237par0311	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Congressmans, the talks in the third round are complete. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. We're 20 minutes out. We'll take ten minutes of questions, give the ministers ten minutes of response time. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0238par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. My first questions to Mr. Bozdağ are: How many staff still serve as deputy imams in the presidency of Religious Affairs? Do you have a study of the appointment of deputy imams to permanent staff? If so, where is the study? My second question is, how many angels has he ever been appointed President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs? Is the purpose expected from this place specific? And my final question is, is it true that there have been recent allegations of an ethnic and religious staffing in the presidency? I ask Mr. Atalay: Is there still a staff of foreign experts in the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? If so, which countries do they belong to, and are their claims to be spies true? I'm asking Mr. Babacan how much Turkish money is still in circulation? How do you assess the situation compared to the debt our citizens owe to the banks and the current Turkish money?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0239par0322	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0240par0324	Mr. Secretary, the rights of those who did or did not pay three installments in individual debt from those who had not paid their rights without the knowledge of their rights -- due to the severe damage caused by earthquakes on August 17th 1999 and November 12, 1999 -- on August 17, 1999. This constitutes a violation of legal legislation, while many of our citizens have been victimised by the lack of information and the absence of any notification. Given that some of our citizens are disabled, the legal arrangement for the removal of their victims is mandatory. Do you have a study to compensate for the rights of our citizens?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0239par0325	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0241par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. There are dense settlements on the northern Anatolian Fay Line. When will all the settlements, especially the official buildings, be tested for earthquake-resistant testing? How many buildings have been tested so far? My second question is: Animal manufacturers and farmers from Tokat Province, Erbaa, Niksar and Zile counties are looking for us, and because we can't pay for everything we've used to produce products, such as fertilizers, medicines, diesels, and farm loans. They say, "We are in a position to lose our land and our home." Are you considering a new arrangement for loans and bank loans from manufacturers and tradesmen? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0242par0330	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0243par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this is Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan and Assad when they were brothers, while they were vacationing together in Bodrum, in the 2010 TİKA book, it said that you would build a plastic surgery centre for Syria. What was the end of this, is it done? That's what I want to ask you. My second question is: Adana was also reflected in the press, and with the proceeds of Koran course students from the bake sale for nearly two years, the Seyhan Muftü is being bought a 2013 model and an extremely luxurious vehicle, and the key delivery of this vehicle is given to the citizens by the Governor of Adana. Do you find such an application correct? Do you find it right as Minister to buy a luxury car with the work those kids have been doing at the bake sale for two years? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0244par0335	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0245par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Atalay. The provisional government, declared by the Syrian opposition, held its first meeting in İstanbul, headed by Ahmed Tuma. The meeting said the establishment of the government's building was decided in Gaziantep, south of Turkey. Does the government know about this in terms of its location, its time? Where was it made? Another question: the Syrian Economic Forum is holding a meeting tomorrow in Gaziantep. Under the name of the Suriye Economic Forum, governors are invited to this meeting, co-ordinator governor is invited, and NGOs are invited. Mr. Atalay, is the state of the Republic of Turkey organizing such a meeting? What country does this economic forum work for, the current Syrian government or the opposition? There's also the term north-west Syria. Where is northwest Syria? When did they divide Syria? I'd like to know about these. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0246par0339	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0247par0340	I ask Mr. Atalay: When did the construction of the new building begin for AFAD? What's the cost of construction? What's the difference between design and use of this new building and what's it going to be? How much rent is paid to AFAD's rental building in Çukurambar? The site used by the former Department of Disasters is now being built by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. What institution or Rant facilities will be built on the rest of the land? How will AFAD be organised in the province, since the city's general parliaments in the cities have been lifted?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0246par0341	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0248par0342	Mr. Secretary, the other day our president named a few villages that weren't water, the AKP deputy chief immediately denied the issue. I'd like to give you an example of Malatya. This village is the village of Görene. The village, with 2,500 people, 780 voters, 40 kilometers from the centre, is forgotten, a village where power only remembers during the election. In this village, summer, morning, evening, between six and eight water flows, so there is no other glass of water to be given to the patients. The only source of income in the village of Görene, which is agriculture, is lack of irrigation water. The people in this village are killing each other. Blood feuds started because of the water. Three dead in one year, five injured. For years, people have been fighting in the village because of water. Across the village, there's the Bolt Dam, over the dam, but there's no watering water in the village. The village's demand is to receive additional water from the Chat Dam, which is within its borders. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Also, can the problem be solved by building a pond in the village of Görene?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0249par0346	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0250par0347	Mr. President, my question is Mr. Bashir Atalay. Mr. Secretary, the European Union is in the 2013 Progress Report, where the Human Rights Institution will be examined under the Paris Principles, and it will be admissible. So please - we need to listen very responsiblely and carefully to our criticism of this matter. We're trying to give an example of the opposition responsible for our country's progress from human rights to the most advanced levels in the world. My question is, one sentence: Why hasn't Turkey built this mechanism on September 27, 2012, when it is necessary to set up a national prevention mechanism in accordance with the UN Convention on Anti-Traveling Old Man Protocol? That's it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0251par0350	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0252par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Workers and officers of the General Directorate of Darphane and Mark Printing Press are demanding that all employees be given capital contributions, including the Department of Minphane and the Stamp Printing Office, which is being held in parliament. When will this sacrifice be resolved? Question number two: No matter what the 50th article of the Bank's Law, the chairman of the banks, the board of directors and their partners, they cannot lend credit to the companies they are in -- companies that are higher than 25 percent -- no matter what. Abdullah Tivnikli, a partner of a bank, used an illegal loan from his own bank for the Dicle Electric Company he bought as a result of his privatisation. He had previously been punished for loans to his own banks for the Cavit Age, for Ali Balkaner, for Yahya Demirel, for Hayyam Güçükoğlu. What kind of transaction are you going to make for this person? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0253par0355	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0254par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Babacan is: The Banking Editing and Control Board is reflected in the public opinion and opinion that the Deputy Director of the Kuwaiti Turkish Bank has agreed to open a loan to Dicle Energy Investment Asş, a partner of its own. Do you agree with the concerns that this decision will lead to bank hoses, and do you approve of this decision by the BDK? What is the risk of this decision for the banking system? In the last five years, one: what is the number of financial audits made to banks? Two: What is the number of complaints our citizens have against banks? As a result of these complaints, how many audits have been made to banks, and what are the sanctions imposed? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0255par0360	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0256par0361	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0257par0362	Sir, we still have 20 seconds.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0255par0363	Can you finish in 30 seconds?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0256par0364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0257par0365	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0255par0366	Okay, 37 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0257par0368	Mr. Secretary, in terms of human rights, you just said there isn't. I don't want to interfere with Mr. Özdemir. He'll tell you in a minute. No one has the right to question my cult. I condemn you, I condemn the Diet.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0255par0370	Thank you. The first ten minutes of the QA have been completed, including the question part.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0258par0372	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0255par0373	Wait a minute. Excuse me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0258par0374	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0255par0375	Now, it's up to the ministers. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0259par0377	Sir, would you allow him to proceed to the reports?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0260par0378	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement before the Minister answers. In the survey that was mentioned earlier, which was distributed by the President of the Religious Affairs, the Minister said, "What sect do you belong to?" He said, "There is no question. This is indeed a misleading answer to society and to the country. Article 11 of this survey has been asked which sect you belong to.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0380	Okay, Mr. Özdemir, okay. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0262par0382	I'm the Jafar!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0263par0383	Mr. Minister's defense... if Alevi is to go to a defense such as Sunni...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0384	Well, okay, but the clock's ticking, guys.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0263par0385	...then I'd like to ask the Minister to explain that he didn't put the Alehirism among these substances because he didn't count it as a cult or because he considered it a non-religious.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0386	Okay, you said there was. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Atalay, do you go first? It's on the books.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0264par0390	Ma'am, I'm Jafar. What's it to you? I'm Jafar. What's it to you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0391	I can't tell you anything, Aslanoglu. What can I do?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0265par0392	Besides, no one has to explain their faith according to the 24th Amendment of the Constitution, Mr. Secretary. What you're doing is a constitutional offense.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0264par0393	I'm Jafar. None of your business!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0394	What can I do for you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0264par0395	None of your business!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0396	Oh, my God! Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0266par0398	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are short, and we're a minute past our time. It's an injustice; the questions and the answers are ten minutes. The questions are short, the answers are long. How will the three ministers answer so many questions in nine minutes?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0261par0399	It's the charter, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0266par0400	Now, Mr. Light's question is that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security does not employ foreign experts. The question of Mr. Right is, how many of the buildings have been reviewed? Now, let me give you a broader written answer to that study, because this -- you know -- is a work in our Department of Urbanism, so I don't want to give him a misleading answer here. Third: The Syrian opposition meeting... of course the State Department may have more information about the meetings, not that I know a lot of details, but that question needs to be answered by getting information from the State Department. The question of Mr. Eyidoğan is: "When did the new building start for AFAD?" (The new building has not yet begun, its project is finished, I think it's being tendered or something, and it's going to be done through TİKI. The old building -- you know -- it was a one-story place, and it was really tight, and now a new building is being built in the same place. I'm looking for information on his rent, and I'll let you know later because there's no information. So, right now, because it's going to collapse, AFAD is sitting on rent somewhere, and we're going to let you know how much it's going to cost. But that building is going to start soon, and the new building is going to be a little bit of a disaster center, and it's going to have a little bit of its own special properties. Of course, you're right about that, we're working, there's a bill in the Prime Minister's office right now. So there will be an arrangement for the state of the AFAD, especially since the state's private administrations have been removed, which will be included in the new bill. I want to thank Mr. Gök for his sensitivity to human rights. No misunderstanding, if there are any statements, we've always, always corrected them. When a year is up, a report will be drawn up, and we'll make our application for the accordion, and then we'll share that information, hopefully there won't be anything wrong there. Of course, we're working on the United Nations Convention on Torture. There's going to be a meeting soon -- civil society organizations and so on -- and that's going to be a little bit of a consideration there, and our Human Rights Agency is working on it right now. But, let me put it this way, you know, when we look at Turkey as the history of torture -- in that sense, Turkey has already made major legal arrangements -- I mean, before, going to the European Court of Human Rights with the most torture crimes related to Turkey, right now it doesn't exist. Because we've changed the penal code, we've increased his sentence too much, he can't be suspended, he can't be turned into money, he can't be timed, so torture... and you know all our stations, we've got cameras. So, Turkey, praise be to God, has taken a huge distance from the fight against torture. But, you know, we're working on that, too, and I think we should do that. Thank you. I give my word to friends, that's the question in front of me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0267par0409	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs said, "How many staff members are there in the Diyanette?" 118,763 personnel. I don't have a clear number on proxy imams right now, so let's get that out there. A thousand mullahs, also known as the mellah, have been announced, 992 people have been placed here. So far, according to our observations, they're doing an efficient, useful work, as we've targeted, followed by mufti. We don't have any staff work on proxy imams right now; we don't have a chance to tell you what's going to happen in the future, but right now, there's no way that we're doing this as a ministry. There is no ethnic and cult-based structure on the diet, and there is no staffing involved. This is contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution, as well as to the state of law. The State Officers' Law is fully within the scope of the Society's Law, which is based on merit. Did Mr. Yilmaz have a plastic surgery centre in Syria? The question is: such a centre has not been made by TİKA. Only in Syria did they send delegations from Turkey to treat people with burns on their lips and jaws. They sent specialists and treated them in that sense. Otherwise, there's no such thing here. I'd like to state from here that this kind of work is done. Of course, what you said about Seyhan Mufti, if what you're saying is true, there's no way to confirm it. The Adana Governor has already launched the necessary examination. And I'm also not sure that I'm going to be a close-up...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0268par0413	He gave it to me, the governor of Adana gave it to him. Which study will he start?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0267par0414	There's an investigation going on right now. That's the information I got, but I'm also gonna follow up on it. And I want you to know that I've given instructions to my fellow Witnesses. And, of course, once again, about this survey, this is a religious life research survey. All of the questions asked in this religious life survey are not about tagging people, but who is looking at the religious life of Turkey; it is about this question that the Dianet asks himself to set a course, or there is no one here, sir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0269par0416	Mr. Secretary, do you or do you not have a cult question in these questions?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0267par0417	Look, I said no flame, no circumcision, I said there's a cult question.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0269par0418	Then you don't count the Alevis as a sect, and you don't place it here because you don't count it as an Islam.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0267par0419	Look, Mr. Özdemir... look, I said it here, I read it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0269par0420	That's a bigger shame!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0270par0421	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0271par0422	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0269par0423	Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0271par0424	Look at the question he's asking, Mr. Secretary, look at the question he's asking!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0272par0425	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0273par0426	He asks you the question of which sect do you belong? He asks you about Hanefi. He asks you about Maliki. He asks you about Shafii. Why bother when they don't bother?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0274par0427	For one thing, you cannot ask that question according to the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0272par0428	Mr. Özdemir, would you please listen to the answers?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0273par0429	He's asking everyone, about everyone.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0274par0430	My flame, my circumcision, my Christianity are no concern of the state. You're committing a constitutional crime with that question.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0273par0431	It's not a crime. In the study of religious life, the questions are religious. Why are you...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0274par0432	What do you care about my Flaming, my Circumcision? What do you care about my Christianity?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0273par0433	You're using politics, you're exploiting it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0274par0434	You're a tool. You have no right to ask! You have no right to ask!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0275par0435	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0273par0436	Let me...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0274par0437	Besides, your defense here is even more wrong.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0276par0438	You're the one who burned Madimak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0277par0440	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0278par0441	What did you do about the Flames? We did what we did. You have forbidden the priesthood, and you were there when it happened, and you were in Sivas, and you were in Çorum. We did what we did. What did you do? You take a lot of abuse.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0276par0443	You have burned Madimak. You have burned Madimak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0278par0444	At the time, the SHP was in power, the SHP was in power.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0279par0445	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0280par0446	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0278par0447	The chief of staff of Mr. Inönul was the governor! I'm sorry, we did what we did. You're making the abuse.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0281par0448	You put the killers and the victims in the same frame!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0280par0449	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0450	Mr. Secretary, look, I just asked a question. Here are the questions. If in these questions you don't count Alevia as a sect, it's a greater shame and a greater error for you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0280par0451	Mr. Özdemir, one minute to Mr. Babacan, you're being unfair. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0283par0452	I said the same thing, there's a question about sects, I said no questions about flammableness and circumcision. It's a shame! It's a shame.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0454	Besides, this question is a constitutional offense.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0283par0455	Listen to what you're saying instead of thanking me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0284par0456	Mr. Babacana, one minute and 20 seconds.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0457	Well, then, you don't consider the Aleviism as a cult, as it was in the past.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0283par0458	I can't decide that, that's not our job. What is it? It's not up to us to decide, is it politics? Is that our job?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0460	I feel sorry for the situation, and I'm going to find it on the charge, and I'd like to get it on the record.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0285par0461	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0286par0462	Kim Alevi, who... it's none of your business!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0464	This head is not the right head.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0287par0465	I can see it from you!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0288par0466	Mr. Bozdağ...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0467	After that, you have no right to return and speak the name of the people of Alevi, for the opening of the flame, for the opening of the flame, and for the opening of the flame. You have no right to make fun of anyone. We're not making fun of anyone. We're not making fun of anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0288par0469	Mr. Bozdağ, please don't argue.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0470	You're making fun of me, you have no right! For once, you have no right to ask about anyone's cult.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0288par0471	Mr. Babacan, come in.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0472	You can't ask about my cult.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0289par0473	I said no, is there?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0474	I do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0289par0475	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0476	You can't ask about my cult.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0289par0477	Everyone's being asked about sects, but is there a question, Alevi, Sunni?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0479	None of your business, brother. Flaming, not circumcision. If you're the minister of the democratic, secular republic, you can't ask that question, you can't.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0289par0480	Yeah, it's a religious research survey; religious issues are asked, religious issues.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0290par0481	Mr. Bozdağ, Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0282par0482	You can't ask that question. For once, you're misleading the House! Ten minutes ago, you say no questions, it's rude!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0289par0483	In the survey of religious life, we can't ask about agriculture, about food, about religious matters, of course!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0291par0485	Democracy, you say, democracy!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0292par0486	Mr. Bozdağ... Mr. Özdemir... I wonder what Mr. Babacan will answer in twenty-eight seconds.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0291par0487	It's none of your business!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0292par0488	Here you go, Mr. Babacan.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0293par0489	Minister of the Law Government!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0294par0490	I'm gonna need two minutes, two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0295par0491	It's written in writing.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0296par0492	Nineteen seconds... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0297par0494	Now, there was a question about the amount of money in our central bank's supply. So if we look at the money supply, there are three different definitions: M1 197 billion, M2 861, M3 900 billion, but our citizens' total financial assets are 1 trillion 100 billion. The sum of individual loans is $326 billion. As for our farmers and our tradesmen's debt to the banks...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0296par0496	I'll give you one more minute, Mr. Babacan. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0297par0498	Well, thank you. Our farmers and our tradesmen's bank loans, on a single basis, are already handled by a single bank when there is a shortage of payments, and the demands are met if reasonable, but other than that, we're already making a collective payment delay in areas where there are farmers facing natural disasters. As for the mint's return capital contribution: The current draft bill does not foresee any contribution to non-profit institutions. In this regard, a new unit of the BDDK has been established concerning protecting the consumer. The statistics on this may later be written in writing by our Banking Organization and Inspection Agency. How many applications have come in, how many complaints have come in, how have they been concluded, the statistics of this are not in front of me right now, so let's answer this in writing later. Other than that, there was another question about the BDDK, but our Banking Editor and Control Agency has already answered that question with a written press release. Beyond that written statement, there's nothing for me to add to that explanation today. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0298par0503	Thank you. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the third round, respectively...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0299par0507	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit03spe0298par0508	We've got a roll call. Now, I'm going to vote for the transfer of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security to the section of the 2014 budget, and there's a motion for a roll call before the vote. We're getting the names of the people who made the demands. Mr. Küçük, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Akar, Mr. Güler, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Calkavan, Mr. Köse, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Aydın, Baydar, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Batum. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 2) The National Management Account for 2012 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives in 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account EMPLOYEE PIECE OF PEANUTION [[Continue]] 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012 Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.97) KAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 20.944,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 20.944,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2012 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 19,218,000.00 Budget Expenses 11.901,254,55 Canceled Fund 7,316,745,45 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security was adopted in 2012 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the disaster and emergency administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.96) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 28.587,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 287,931,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 26.757,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 4,954,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 490.387,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 839.956,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I'd like to submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall take part in the final account of central management in 2012: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Prime Minister of Disaster and Emergency Management for 2012 Central Management Final Account I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 3.303.427,000.00 Budget Expenses 3,076,421,664.55 Canceled Fund 227,005,335,45 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of disaster and emergency management was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2012. I submit to your votes that the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey will be transferred to the central management budget of 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.61) THE BUILDING OF ENGLISH PEOPLE'S RIGHTS 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.317,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 4.517,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 4,512,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 5,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4,517,000 The Human Rights Institution of Turkey was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. I would like to submit to your votes that the President of the Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 07.86) THE PRESIDENT OF DISCOVERY 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 37,187,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 181,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.050.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 442.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.394.807.190 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 1,116,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 5.442.784.190 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2012 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The National Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 4.269.559.676.00 Budget Expenses 4,254,370,352,10 Emancipation Expenses 44,512,934,28 Cancelled Fund 59,702,258,18 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of the Ministry of Religious Affairs was adopted as part of the central administration's final account in 2012. The chairman of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2014 will be transferred to its sections: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.32) Turkish Employment and COORDINIASYON AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 131.637,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 630,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 132.267,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 80,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 131,357,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 880,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 132.267,000 The chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2012 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 165,309,533,31 Budget Expenses 112.919.615.36 Canceled Fund 46,336,162,41 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 6,053,755,54 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 86.243,000.00 Net Collection 133,483,696,45 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency were adopted in 2012. I would like to submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relatives Associations will be transferred to the central management budget in 2014: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.51) THE PRESIDENT OF THE YURTDISH ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 54,154,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 140,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 194.504,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 561.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 193,943,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 194.504,000 The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relatives Associations, the final account of the central administration of 2012, shall be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkeys abroad and Relative Communitys Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 57,269,820,46 Budget Expenses 40.369.049.94 Canceled Fund 16,900,770,52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 43,320,76 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 33,283,000,00 Net Collection 50.001.634.22 Ret and Returns (-) 434,56 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The president of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was granted a final account of central management in 2012. Undersecretary of Treasury, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2014: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.82) AGREEMENT 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 53,863,984,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,035,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 8,184,691,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 1,950,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 63.999.710,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2014 as part of the central management budget. Undersecretary of Treasury, in 2012, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 65,831,233,573,02 Budget Expenses 61.680.499.303.65 Canceled allowance 4.150,734,269,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 797,974.194.33 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Banking Editing and Investigating Board of Directors of the 2014 central management budget will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.04) THE BUILDING AND EXPERIENCE OF BANCY 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 15,013,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 216,987,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 232,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 05 Other Incomes 232,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 232,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Banking Editing and Control Agency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2012 will be transferred to the chapters of the Banking Editing and Investigation Agency: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2012 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 165,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 83.193.157.31 Canceled Fund 81.806.842.69 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 165,000,000.00 Net Collection 167,091,836,64 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Banking Editing and Control Agency was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board will take part in the 2014 central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.03) PIECE OF PIANO 1) Capital Market Board 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 38.997,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 7.420,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 56,800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 103,217,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 89.166,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 14.051000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 103,217,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Capital Market Board was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2014. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board's central management account of 2012 will be transferred to its chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2012 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 88,73,000.00 Budget Expenses 81.029.047,37 Cancelled Fund 7.693.952.63 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 82,782,000.00 Net Collection 111,714,932,12 Ret and returns 48,806,98 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Capital Market Board was adopted in 2012 as part of its final account of central management. In this way, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the President of Afet and Emergency Management, the President of Religious Affairs, the Chairman of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, the Undersecretary of Treasures, Banking Editing and Controlling Agency and the Central Management budgets of the Capital Markets in 2014 and the final accounts of central management in 2012 and the central management budget of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey in 2014. I wish them well, and I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0298par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is here. The government is here. This is İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0300par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, first of all, I ask God's mercy to our citizens who have died in Malatya, and I ask for health to the wounded, and I ask for patience to their families. I have made a commitment to share the views of the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. We used to say bread is in the mouth of a lion. But now we have to fight a flock of lions to earn our bread. Millions of workers dream of a job that is insured and secure while struggling to survive below the age of hunger. Under long hours and bad circumstances, workers who have been working nose to face with business accidents have become fortunate if they can receive the full amount of the promised wages at the end of the month and if the insurance premiums are paid in full. The workers are now saying that we are not planning to retire, as long as we are not fired and the wages are laid off. It's the government and the Department of Labor and Social Security who are responsible for the system that's been created in the first place, and they're the laws that the government and the Department of Labor and Social Security has passed without considering our criticism and our proposal with capital environments and bureaucracy, dear friends. The 2013 budget is set aside for interest, Ranta, security, military spending, and the end of Dianete, while it is kept as close to labourers, education and health as possible. In exchange for all the problems, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security cut its budget this year, while the Labour and Social Security budget was 35 billion Turkish dollars in 2011, while the budget for 2014 was estimated at 32 billion,725,541 million Turkish liras. It's amazing what problems you've dealt with in your working life that you've reduced this budget. You've already devoted almost all of your budget to social security and welfare in 2013. You have completely forgotten the part of your ministry's work, making it the ministry of my work. We can see that you've already forgotten your work life, that you've lost your record, that your lack of supervision has increased your work killings. The painting is already open. 10,723 work murders in the last ten years. Still child labor continues to be the burning problem of our country. On 14 March 2013, the trial of Ahmet Yıldız, 13, who was killed by being trapped in a press machine in Adana, was decided. Ahmet Yıldız, 13, who lost his life in work killings, is worth 30,040 Turkish liras and 24 months in installments. In 2013 55 children lost their lives. Three workers died from methane gas poisoning in an unlicensed quarry during the week of the Miners in Zonguldak. A study of occupational illness does not exist. We all know about denture workers, dental technicians, professional asbestos deaths and so on. Today, thousands of teacher candidates, thousands of colleges, are trying to work for minimum wage. Thousands of colleges are sweating through the classroom doors with a KPSS scam and distraction. What's the government doing in public? It's going to narrow down. And of course he's doing it with a subcontractor system and a flexible working model. The government is giving everything to the market as it completely loses its ability to be human-centered. While child and female labor are the main object of the new form of exploitation, the right to organise while working on home axis women are still being condemned to work uninsured and unsecured, is still full of obstacles despite the laws of unsecured unions. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, what is the big change you've made in the union area with the union law you passed? Since you've come to power, you've struck organised life day after day from 2002 to today. In 2002, the number of workers under the collective agreement dropped from 1,73,000 to 567, as of the end of 2012. From 51 trade unions, which have exceeded 10 per cent of the previous threshold, seven trade unions have been under the dam with the 1 per cent dam you claim to have dropped the dam. With your new dam app, thousands of workers have been disinherited from the collective contract of employment. When the dam is implemented by 3%, only 15 unions will cross the dam and tens of thousands of workers will be denied the right to collective contracts. We said that the law that you brought to the pensioners was not an example, and you didn't listen. Many have made it very clear that this is no longer an industry law, including the Public Control Agency. We've discussed the problems of pensioners on every platform, we've presented our solution proposals in various channels, but you still don't take the problems of ageers on your agenda. I wonder how much longer you'll be able to avoid this problem. Retired pensioners want to meet you in Ankara, and tomorrow they have actions. Now it's become so that most of the time, employees have to fight for their most basic rights, even for law enforcement, if they're organized or if they can afford to hire a lawyer. After overtime, additional payments, bonuses, power fees and so on, workers are lost between 5,000 Turkish liras and 10,000 Turkish liras. We applied to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that some of the provisions of the decree were in violation of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has annulled the provisions for the removal of payment, such as the disputed turnover capital share, bonus and additional payment, but you are not implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, Mr. Secretary. Look, despite the Supreme Court's decision in favor of 6,500 workers on the highway -- that's true for both ministers -- you don't apply these decisions either. In a country where the decisions of the courts are not even carried out, can there be any mention of valuable friends, justice, and law? These days, when work and unemployment are intertwined like a spiral, the subcontractor card caught in the collars of workers is tried to become the only working form of the working class. In 2002, the subcontractor was over 2 million workers. So, why are you trying to spread this system and legitimize it? Of course, because it's cheap labor. That's why, in many public institutions, including Congress, you're spreading the subcontractor system in all institutions of the Ministry of Labor, municipalities. And you cut off the provision of orphans whom you could not afford. You're so coveted by this people's livelihood, you're even trying to take away the life vest of workers and workers' severance pay. The legal working period in Turkey is 45 hours per week in workers, 40 hours in civil servants, but in particular in private workplaces, the actual working period ranges from 55 to 59 hours. More than a quarter of the employment is over 60 hours. That's what you're bragging about. According to TÜİK data, 1,220,000 workers work for more than 72 hours. There's a serious amount of work to be done here. One of the duties of the Ministry of Labor is to pursue labor thefts, which are the most unfair. Yeah, you're always talking about growth. Yes, there is a growth, Your Honors. This growth growth in subcontractorization, this growth in lawlessness growth, this growth in poverty growth, this growth in inequality growth, this growth in injustice growth. Thus, it is true that there is also great growth in the rebellion of the people, and the rebellion of the people will grow. I believe these people will see beautiful and sunny days instead of darkness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These people will not only paint the stairs, but also the eyes of green, blue, red, purple. I salute all those who fight for an equal, free and democratic Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0301par0025	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. İzmir MP Birgül Ayman Güler. Here you go, Mr. Guler. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0302par0030	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed deputies, the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration. It's called TODAIE 12 million, 633,000 lira budgeted this year. In the third volume of budget reports, a summary of the legal provisions was provided on page 1,427. Minister Faruk Çelik's speech on the budget presentation was pronounced 38 words and 5 digits related to this institution in his speech in the Commission. Now, I've just received the General Assembly presentation text here, and here's TODAIE -- it's a very thick book -- it's just a page of bet. It seems that it doesn't matter very much, it's the location of TODAIE, inside the Ministry of Labor. I thought it really was, and looking at this data, I decided it was. TODAIE is a prime minister's institution from 1952 to 2002. In 2002, as soon as the AKP came to power, a change was made, and it was made into the Interior Ministry's relevant institution. This was only sustained until 2007. Back in 2007, he was taken from the Ministry of Interior and replaced by the Prime Minister. In 2011, he was removed from the prime minister's office and established a relevant institution of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. So in the history of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the TODAIE history is only two years as of 2013. It seems that along with the State Chief of Staff, the TODAIE, the public service agency, the Department of Labor and Social Security, which organises market labour services. The world remains because there were very clear reasons why he was loyal to the Prime Minister all this time. TODAIE doesn't serve the private sector. TODAIE raises managers at public institutions. He raises public administration teachers in public administration schools. He has taken on the task of raising staff for public administration. It was founded to serve public administration in Turkey and in the Middle East as its close geography. There has been no change in TODAIE's law to serve the private sector. It seems that the Department of Labour and Social Security, which deals with labour management in the market, has not been able to adopt this institution that governs the public's personnel administration, and I don't think it can be adopted by the definition of its mission. I think the main factor in the ministry's presentation is to say, why did the Ministry of Labor and Social Security include the State Staff President and TODAIE, who manages public staff? This isn't a change in Mr. Faruk Çelik, if I'm not mistaken, it's a change in the previous Minister of Labor. The AKP was now pursuing a public administration reform I thought it had abandoned. One aspect of that reform was the private sector of the public administration system. As part of this goal, the TODAIE, which raises public managers, and the State Chief of Staff, who manages the public staff system, has been taken inside the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and has been motivated to create a public staff administration that meets the principles of market labour force management. So this is the result of a policy that was once adopted by the government, which is contrary to the nature of TODAIE and the government's Chief of Staff and property. It's a dead-end policy. Public service is something other than market service, whether we accept it or not. Therefore, a different type of manager requires a different type of officer. We have a very recent development that confirms this universal generalization, a development of the Department of Labor and Social Security again. In 1988, the government of that time made a few changes in Article 4/A of State Officers Act 657. The help - class joke is that the services of the staff in this class can be seen through service purchase. The sentence is placed. At the time, he complained about the majority of janitors and concierges. In 1988, we were in the midst of a major crisis, which expanded in 1988, along with the decision that some of the jobs that the health care and health care class later saw could also be done through service. This simple change that began in 1988 was the first step in subcontractorship in public administration. The change in the way public service could be seen in 1988 has expanded, expanded, and expanded, and the public administration has also been introduced to the norm staff, carrying us to 600 thousand public contractors today and around 400,000 private sector subcontractors. 600,000 subcontractors are people who don't get paid, who don't get paid on time, who don't get a year off, and who don't have a senior severance package. The Department of Labor and Social Security reports that the public sector contractors sued the subcontractor because of the lack of severance, and the same report says that we have an emergency payload of $1 billion, but if it's done in public, the amount is $9 billion. Any decision made in public is a precedent for the private sector. The public is always ahead of the private sector and is the pioneer. It's not the public's problem of paying $9 billion, maybe, but it's the matter of severance that the private sector's 400,000 subcontractors can demand. It's come to a point where there's no difference between public service and market service, and we manage TODAIE with the power of the Department of Labor and Social Security. We'll see the public as a private sector now, and we'll run it that way. The idea is bankrupt. Subcontractorization is a form of public privatisation. So the privatisation of Turkey by means of subcontractorisation started in 1988 has failed. No service based on labour exploitation can be a public service not only in Turkey, but has been known for at least 200 years in the world. Our proposal is that the Ministry of Labor and Social Security frees the Institute for Turkey and the Middle East Amme Administration and the President of State Staff. Their place is the Prime Minister, and they need to see that their work mentality can be created not by market mentality, but by public service mentality. And one last request, Mr. Secretary, as one of the actors of development...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0303par0036	Which Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0302par0037	Do not make this mistake in Turkey's electoral system. Mr. Ministers, if you're a candidate, resign to the municipalities, we expect your resignation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0304par0040	Thank you. Mr. Mahmut Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've been talking for nine minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0044	Thank you, dear President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all, and I bid you good evening. Of course, we're discussing a very important issue, we're continuing budget talks, but if the Parliament is open at this hour, in terms of not being extravagantly used public revenues, there are now 21 people sitting at the AKP rankings -- in order to get it into the records.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0306par0047	22.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0048	Twenty-two, all right. Look, it's comfortable, count, 22 people, all right. 35 people in the ranks of the Republican People's Party, 11 in the ranks of the National Movement Party, four in the ranks of the Independent Democratic Party...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0307par0049	The Peace and Democracy Party. Mr. Mahmut, what are you doing!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0050	In the ranks of the Peace and Democracy Party, four people sit 20 people in the seat of our fellow bureaucrats. So...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0308par0052	Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0053	Here you go, take a look at it together.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0309par0054	Mr. Mahmut, we're here.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0055	You say power, you say parliament, and when it comes to salary, you run like hell.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0310par0056	Friends can't stand the way you talk. That's why they're out there.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0311par0057	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0058	For him, for our people to hear it. "O citizen, let our people see this - the budget is being discussed."
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0312par0059	Mr. Tanal, if you talk like that, we're going out, too.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0060	Officers, employees, who's defending our rights in the House? All opposition parties defend your rights. The political power that has denied you your rights, your rights, your hard work, your bread. With numbers, it's very comfortable, I'm here to inform the public. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, let's talk about...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0312par0063	I'm leaving, too.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0064	Dismissed. Sure. Thank you. The number has fallen to 21, from the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0313par0066	They can't stand you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0067	Now, as a result, the fundamental implementation of the staff regime in Turkey is the 10th Article of our Constitution, Article 128, Article 70 of our Constitution, Article 129 of our Constitution. Of course, the State Officers' Law must be held equal to each citizen's request without any discrimination. But is this really the application? For example, two of our ministers are sitting here. In the Law of Judges and Prosecutors, when a judge or prosecutor is taken, a medical report is called in. It's a legal obstacle to our disabled citizens. Two, the 70th article of our Constitution says that each citizen benefits from public service. However, there's the State Officers Act 657, in writing, you've brought verbal interviews in order to obtain party staff so that you can make the favor.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0314par0070	There's KPSS.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0071	As for verbal interviews, when you were requested for surveillance footage of the profiling process this time, you did something to a remote area from the CCTV footage. And what happened? The entire public regime, the principle of neutrality, which was sought by officers in Law 657, has been eliminated, and at the same time, the security available regarding officers has been narrowed down. So, what did these narrowdowns bring? He's brought in the inferiority of public service. As a result, what happened with this? As it is always referred to in 2002, arrangements for officers would have been made by the law before 2002, but on September 12, 1980, there were regulations in the law of officers at that time, but the Constitutional Court cancelled. However, has there been a decree, a decree on civil servants from 3 November 2002, when the Justice and Development Party came to power, a continuation of those military coups, been made? Done. So it's pretty much the same thing as the rest of each other. What's this? Again, there have been real problems with the public regime. What happened? 4/A's, 4/B's, 4/C's, subsidiary services, contract staff, employees, elected officials, volunteers... so if there's only one country in the world where there's so much public service, so many people in the world, there's Turkey, and you can't find another example. At the same time, what about these civil servants? Including the MPs and ministers, sir, the privacy of his estate is essential. He's going to make a statement of goods, his assets are prohibited, classified. All democratic, democratic systems, all of the countries that can account, all of the countries that are in clean power, all of the clean communities, have access to the minister's and the deputy minister's and the public official's assets. At the same time, he has to explain. That is the obligation of the pure and the pure. However, we offered you a law on this, and you didn't even accept this bill. What is usually the need for this property statement? It's a need to fight corruption. Well, if there's a need for a fight against corruption, it needs access to the property of every citizen, the ministers, the Prime Minister, the congressmen, the Speakers of Congress, the members of the House, the members of the public officials, to achieve its full purpose. Otherwise, sir, the politicians, the prime ministers, the ministers, the lawmakers, all of the public officials will be trapped in a shadow. If we really want to remove this suspicion, we need to reach a transparent, clean society. Another problem. What is this? Generally, in Western societies, the number of ministries is reduced as much as possible. The number of ministers in Eastern communities is higher. Turkey is one of these examples.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0315par0076	15.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0077	The number of ministers isn't 15, it's 24. If you don't know, find out, I mean, we teach you all the time.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0315par0078	The ministry fell to 15 when we arrived.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0079	You've been a congressman for two semesters, and even if you're a 14-term congressman, you're not gonna find out, bro!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0316par0081	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0082	As a result, 24 ministers have 24 deputy ministers, and I also have some of you MPs' names, and I don't want to be rude -- you've brought your own wives to the head of human resources in most ministries. There can be no such wastefulness, dear friends. So please stick some needles in yourself. It's very important, I don't want to name them. It's not the right thing to do. Because Mr. President says, please don't do anything in terms of the name. Let's not make a fuss. It's important. So, I beg you, let's just drop it. Mr. Faruk Çelik, I beg of you. I'm from Şanliurfa. You are the deputy of Şanliurfa, and you eat the bread of Şanlıurfa. 15 of our friends are fired at the Social Insurance Institution in Şanlıurfa. Why? There's no funding in the budget. Come on, dear Minister, you're the district's MP, you're the minister of Turkey, you're taking advantage of that area, but 15 of our citizens are being fired at TEDASH, and I have their letters, and people are writing us letters because they don't have funds. Thank you all for listening patiently. This budget is not human-oriented, but just as you collect taxes from people, answer to Turkey and answer the tax you collect. Since you did not, I have filed a criminal complaint against all 24 ministers, all senior public officials, to the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. You said, "The reports have arrived." Look, I'm gonna... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0317par0088	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I also want to thank you on my behalf for your kindness.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0305par0089	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0317par0090	So the talks on the Republican People's Party Group are over. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we begin our talks. The first statement is from İstanbul MP Durmis Ali Torlak. Here you go, Mr. Torlak. Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0318par0096	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask the grace of God to our precious teachers who died in a car accident in Malatya. And my condolences to his family and to the Turkish nation. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications in 2014, with the honor of welcoming your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, budget talks enable the government to account, to address the government's actions in detail, to discuss criticism and proposals. The budget is a legal document for the functioning of the state, service and investment of our nation. For this reason, budgets that are being prepared every year are very important in the country's administration, economics and nation's life. However, the perspective and approach of AKP governments on the budget bring with it major problems and uncertainty. When we look at the last 11 years of budget goals, it seems that promises have not been kept and cannot be achieved. Over the past years, the budgets confirm that the amount of spending that has been set cannot be met, and the amount that has been set at the end of the year has been constant. Thus, in drafting the government's budget law, it shows that it is not realistic, honest and believable, as it is in every policy against our nation. If we are doing the legislature on behalf of the great Turkish nation, it is our duty to defend the right expectations and laws of the citizens we represent. At this point, as members of the National Movement Party, we see what AKP's sermons, baseless deflection of agendas, non-truth policies have done to our country and our nation, and we do what we need to do to it. The most important part of this warning is the unity of the national state and country. If we are aware of the treasonous attacks against the Turkish nation in this environment, we must immediately abandon the separatist cultural and social policies that are being carried out. It must now be seen that the AKP's mentality for the past will not be of any use to anyone to sow continuous seeds of conflict, deepening dissolution within our nation. It must be the contradictions of a government who's lost consciousness, who's been drawn with the blood of our martyrs, whose unitary structure, our brotherhood, and our national union, who's been questioned lately, who's been constantly jumping the age of empty rhetoric, moving forward democracy, reaching economic abundance. The confrontation, created by the AKP government against the gains and savings of the Republic of Turkey, clearly shows how Turkish identity, rule of law and the principles of the republic are calculated. Turkey has entered a difficult period of deception and lies under AKP's rule. During this period, a process of destruction and division has been initiated where the networks of betrayal have kept them together. The AKP's insistence to open up nothing but destruction has brought the country to the brink of partition, and the divisive focus of the AKP's government, which is encouraged by the concessions given by global forces, has made it clear in recent days that it wants to be federation and division. Today, the Turkish state, the Turkish state, and the Turkish nation, is the basis of our national existence, and it is intended to continue at the speed of a national identity debate, which has been carried out for separatist purposes. As the Nationalist Movement Party, our account and our struggle will never end, even if it lasts for the rest of our lives, with separatists, traitors, those who mean to be brothers of the Turkish nation and those who bring martyr blood on their hands. With the separation of the Turkish nation and the issue of separatism and terrorism, our thousand-year brotherhood and all our national and spiritual values require it, and history puts that responsibility on us. That's what everyone needs to know. Dear lawmakers, the problems of rapid urbanization, industrialisation and population growth are undoubtedly the most reflected in the transport sector. Plans on transportation and traffic, which is part of it, and proposals for solutions, must also be complete. Therefore, it is not possible to keep social and economic life alive and dynamic in the time we live without adequate and modern transportation services. As in all areas, adapting to technological developments in transport is a requirement of economic development and prosperity. The main task of governments is to increase transport capacity to meet the needs of economic and social development, to establish and coordinate transport systems in accordance with the interests of the country and society. The integrity of the transport system is also the key element of modern economies and social development because transport is an important service sector that is intertwined with other sectors as well as with its own economic activity. In short, human life is indispensable as a whole, and the economy is directly infrastructure, but unilateral transport policies in our country have increased dependency on land roads in cargo and passenger transport, making it more harmful to the country's economy than its contribution. This continued during the 11-year period of AKP governments, and the spending of land roads investment due to public service status has naturally been covered by the state's overall budget opportunities. These investments have been continued by the General Directorate of Highways, which does not account for profit and loss, while the same opportunity has never been benefited by the sea roads. In the current case, construction and maintenance of railways are also important to assess, as well as the intentional constraints of the TCDD (TCDD), which operates business on the basis of a profit-sharing account, as well as the construction of fast train investments at nearly twice the price of tenders. It is not even reserved in a crisis of resources that will enable the shipping sector to be fully operational and to be able to transport, to be able to increase the capacity of our country using this advantage, to be used to our national interests. Although the modes of transport were collected under the leadership of a marine minister, the marine minister's hand brought the naval route and naval sector to a complete end. In the past five years, the AKP government has done nothing but watch the stalemate of other branches of the naval sector, particularly the shipbuilding industry. ▪ Marine nation, the government's ten-year development plan, which does not drop the word "sea state" from its mouth, is compressed in between the lines, not assessed under the logistical roof of the sea road, not to mention a word from the sector's financial capacities, reveals the government's importance to sailing. Our shipbuilding industry, which suffers from financing and collateral problems, is unable to receive orders from abroad and abroad due to these problems. Any order that can't be received means the loss of currency as a country, the increase in budgets and current deficits. Our armators are no different than shipyards. The government and party programmes will increase the share of Turkish armators in increasing foreign trade transports. It has been said that Turkish flag ships will be preferred. The Turkish flagships will be preferred, and the fleet of sea trade will be expanded. Since 2008, the industry has continued to go backwards. Shipyards that couldn't find credit and collateral have been shut down, and the ships of the debted armators have been impounded. While the sector struggles with these problems, the foreign flagships' share in foreign trade transport has increased by 425 per cent, while Turkish flagships' share has declined by 58 per cent compared to 2002. The AKP government, which did not give credit and support to its own people, remained silent about the country's foreign currency going abroad, and billions of dollars going to foreigners. If these problems are not resolved, even if the Marine Minister of Transport is your ministry, the Marine People will not be a marine state. I'm afraid that's where the naval sector has come in. Dear lawmakers, for years the lines of cargo and passenger transport have been abandoned to its fate. In recent years, conventional lines have not been invested enough. Many conventional railway lines continue to carry cargo, while passenger transports have been halted. Thus, the right to cheap transportation of our limited people living in areas has been taken from them. Therefore, the TCDD administration must review its policy on these lines and allow the launch of flights again. These are the complaints and requests from our people in the provinces to our party and to our individual. I'd like to share that with you from here. Dear lawmakers, the Postal Services Act has been enforced in the past year of legislation. After the law began to be enforced, there was a shortage of large staff members, as many personnel retired. PTT personnel already working with a missing staff have been forced to face difficulties due to retirement. The setbacks in postal posts, the pile-up at the tollbooths, the hours of our retired and elderly people waiting in the pay line, have now become common in PTT branches. Because of the problems at PTT, neither employees nor citizens are satisfied. In PTT, we receive complaints such as having a distributor look at all four neighborhoods, not even using normal legal permits for employees, continuing practices contrary to the principles of the ILO work, threatening to banishment of executives. When we compare all of this to the previous years, we see that the PTT (PTT), which has a good view of a good institution with its staff, today, has become the worst institution. The other issue of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications is that it also builds airports with inefficient projects and investments. The most important thing about these investments is that public opinion has been misled by the government's statement that there will be no money in the vault. In this scope, the Zafer Regional Airport Project has been asked to guarantee 850,000 passengers abroad and abroad for the first year, despite the region's negative view of the Treasury Undersecretary's travel capacity without consideration. As of late November 2013, there were 82,924 passengers leaving and arriving. This reveals the state's annual loss. Again, in connection with the same project, all revenues, such as fuel supply, concession revenues, accommodation, approach, lighting, safety measures and ground service revenues, which were not assigned to the previous company in the construction-business-regulation practices, have been assigned to the company. Therefore, in his statement dated August 10, 2012, it is not right to say that the Victory Regional Airport Project was not released from the government's vault without funding the budget with the do-and-run model, including everything else. On the other hand, health care at airports has been run by the government, while in recent years, it has been a terrible event to be on the road to buying services. Paramedics on the company staff are either resigning and moving into the private sector or being forced to resign by request of a transfer. However, there are two important features of health care at airports: one is experience in health and the other is law in airports and international areas. Diseases that occur during flight are different from diseases that appear on the ground. The team, which has no experience in flight health, will be severely lacking in diagnosis and treatment. In order to determine patient passengers' fitness for flight, you need a trained or experienced physician in flight health. Dear lawmakers, as a fellow congressman, I believe we have a very old friendship with the Minister, some of our friends know. This sector is a very difficult sector. Every time I went on this stand, I tried to say that it was very difficult, compared to the name above the shipyard. I'm just saying because I'm well aware of the Minister's efforts in this matter. Mr. Secretary has really done some important work in this sector. However, since 2008, unfortunately, some things have been misled, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0319par0120	Can't the Minister decide for himself?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0318par0121	One of them is that our Maritime Ministry has been reduced from undersecretary to chief of staff. What this means, dear friends, is that the Turkish nation is actually a marine nation, but it means that it has to give up its claim. But, despite all that, private sailors, when we look at the friends we know, despite all the troubles, are continuing to become their shipowners, their shipyards. Today, Turkey's largest armators have started with tiny boats, five meters, ten meters, 20 meters, 50 meters of barges. If the state, the AKP government, supports this sector -- look, I'm just saying it as Tuzla, and I've always brought it up, Minister knows it very well -- it's possible to give bread to 150,000 people, dear friends. Until yesterday, 2008, an industry that could provide this much support to our people, 150,000 people, could continue today. What can be done? Mr. Minister, it's possible that your government is making decisions, making serious decisions, making big investments, we know, we see, we follow. We call it right, we call it wrong. Look, the defense industry ships are a late project, but congratulations, it's the right decision to make here. But the error here is that four, five shipyards were chosen, and those four or five shipyards were given ten, five ships. When the industry's in so much trouble, the way the shipyards are starving to death, the way they're giving each one of these ships shows that you support shipyards -- one year, two years. Therefore, doing so is not too difficult. I believe, with good intentions, you will take this as a note, and you will do the work on it, and I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0320par0126	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. Now, it's time for Mr. Ali Halaman of Adana. Here you are, Mr. Halaman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0131	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget of 2014 for the National Board of Highways. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group and on behalf of myself, I salute the Turkish nation. The General Directorate of Highways has been an expert on the road for fifty-sixty years. It has contributed to the country's economic, cultural, social values and its strengthening for fifty-sixty years. Production has always contributed to the development of the economy, but recently the Ministry of Transport has thought about selling these institutions and institutions, and it has sold TELECOM. After TELEKOM, the post office then passed a law on privatisation of the PTT (PTT) and in five years to get government and public business to subcontractors. He's lost all the rights of engineers, officers, staff working at these institutions. Now, while the highways have been working at the country's transport point for a long time, the highways made by the past authorities have recently created a process of renting and selling for 25 or 30 years. Because of public pressure, the people working on the highways have stopped by the bureaucrats' objections, but they're waiting for the sale to mature. Congressmans, I'd like to tell you about the location of the highways in the budget through our constituency, Adana. Now, in the past budget talks, in the 2014 budget laws, when we look at the situation of Adana and its counties, there's no other way to do it than the past. Now, when we look inside the ten-year period of power, about roads and roads, there's a curve correction, a white scratch in the middle of the existing roads, and we made a double road. Now, today's power, Mr. Prime Minister, when our ministers come to Adana, we will build Adana a fast train. Did they build a roller coaster? Instead, they moved Adana's Shakirpaşa Airport with another one. Now, at the center of Adana, there's a 30 thousand-year-old stadium in the history of Adana, and we're going to eliminate this stadium, and we're going to build an urban transformation or building here, and we're going to take this stadium somewhere else. Oh, you're just gonna take it somewhere else? Now, I'm going to tell you something about the 57th period of government, about the past. There are Adana, Pozant, Niğde tunnels; all of their projects were done during the 57th government; they were tendered, and our government fell in the process of doing so. So the Niğde-Postian highway, therefore the Adana routes were made during the 57th government, which was inaugurated by the AKP government. Now, Adana has a 150km highway from its beginning to its end. If I ask the ten-year-old AKP government, did you build a new highway or extend the existing highways?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0322par0141	No, I'll answer for them.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0142	Now, look, we made the way through Adana Sarıçam, we made the way through Imamoğlu, we made the roads of the environment run through steel asphalt.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0323par0143	They didn't build the highway themselves!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0144	They were made during the mp. Now we have made the way of Mansurlu, the way of the forest of Feke. We built Ceyhan's entrance, and his bridge, and he built the period of MHP. Now, while the MHP was doing that quickly, in the twelve-year period of power, Despite the budget of the Fourway-Karatash-Egg-Embark-Mersin coast road, was still in the investment pens, did he nail it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0324par0147	They're good at marketing, nothing else, nothing else!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0148	In cities and towns, the Ministry of Transport delivered the roads to BELDESS, delivering the village routes, the group routes to KOYDES. AS A PRIVATE OF THE PRESIDENTS AND BELDES, IT WAS A Transport Ministry, which was made up of saying, "Take this, make your own way." Now, therefore, wherever you go, wherever you look, the accidents are caused by the fact that the roads are out of order.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0324par0150	It's getting bigger.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0151	I get up fifteen or twenty days before that and go from here to Adana. So, when I look between Adana-Ankara, there's a greyder waiting in the middle of the roads, waiting for a pickup, there's five workers at the head of the grapefruit. It's either repair or repair. With traffic signs, there's constant repairs, so either get out of here or get out of here.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0325par0152	They're making money. How are they going to get a bid?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0153	Now, there's our Kozan County. Now, there's a road called Mansurlu-Iskenderun. It's 90 kilometers. During the 57th government -- this is on the lower side of Kayseri, where there is plenty of minerals, these mines are sold to Alexander's Iron and Steel -- we made a tender for the construction of this road, look. When we made the tender, we built about 20 or 25 kilometers, such as a highway, carrying, truckers were weighing on Alexander. Now, we've fallen as parties in 2002, so we're under the dam, the AKP is in power. Did you drive five miles on this 90km road?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0326par0154	They couldn't make the 90km drive to Sapan in five years.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0155	Now, we've made these roads pay all the cost, the public price. Now, the road wasn't built on this, so the truckers fell and the road fell. You have given the streams and rivers of Adana in the name of HES. Why don't you do it your way, your people, the trucker, the mover's way when you're trying to do it? Why don't you do the work of this strange trucker, brother?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0326par0157	He's a poor trucker. Number 10 burns oil, trucker, what's he doing with it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0158	Now, if I were to say... if the Ministry of Transport had said that no one was as helpful as the dot, I made a direct route from the Black Sea of Samsun to Adana.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0327par0159	No curves.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0326par0160	No way. Ask them, did they draw a new railroad line with a new one?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0161	I mean, what's the point of cutting so much down on those 60-70 billion-dollar currents, those imported trucks that don't have any production, and they're traveling on land roads, those Mercedeses, the property of the Germans, the property of the French, the property of Sweden, the imports, the people who carry imports over them, I'm going to get taxes on these trucks, and I'm going to get documents? So...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0328par0164	King of the road. It'll go down in history.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0165	I give you all respect, love.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0329par0167	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0328par0168	It'll go down in history, history.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0169	Don't be a chatterbox. Don't be a chatterbox. Camel!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0329par0170	Mr. New, please don't beat around the bush. Mr. New...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0321par0171	Don't be a camel!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0329par0172	Mr. Halaman, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0330par0173	Did you hear that, Ahmet New? You heard what he said, didn't you? Are you relieved now?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0331par0174	He's got a mouth job.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0329par0175	Now, it's time to speak to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0330par0176	You must be relieved!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0332par0177	A friend who used to be a banker!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0330par0178	Go home, go to bed tonight!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0333par0179	You've been coming in with the same books for 11 years, no progress.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0332par0180	Banker, banker, friend banker.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0334par0181	Ahmet New, this is your last term.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0335par0182	Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0336par0185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There are many problems awaiting a solution to working life. However, increasingly common subcontractor work has become the main problem of working life. It's an unacceptable situation to have a subcontractor which is worthy of human dignity and should be given proper work, but is overworked by the logic of profit by staying away from universal norms, but is not paid for, in a manner of subcontracting the system of slavery. More than 1 million workers in Turkey work as sub-employees - sub-contractors. About 600,000 of these are employed in public institutions. The subcontractors have no yearly paid permits, no overtime, no return funds, no additional payments, no bank promotion, no severance, no job guarantees, no job guarantees, no organizational rights. On top of that, subcontractors are being humiliated, subcontractors are being underestimated, subcontractors are being crushed. I'm asking the AKP government: What book does this practice have a place in? Would it fit in with humanity? Where is humanity, where is human rights? What age do we live in? The subcontractors have no faith in themselves, they have lost their self-respect, understand? The subcontractors are tired of the slave treatment. The growing problems of subcontractors are now to be resolved, working conditions and wages must be improved urgently. Although subcontractors have worked for years, their salaries are usually at a minimum wage level. In addition, their salaries are not given regularly, they are given rights. See, the Court of Public Hospitals Foundation of Turkey says what the audit report for 2012 says: the wages of subcontractors are being paid late. As part of the contract, the food, the road, and similar payments are not paid or paid at all. The AKP government does not apply the terms of the contract, so it condones this exploitation, this robbery. It's already the AKP mentality that drives subcontractors into all areas, it's the AKP government that exploits the labor of subcontractors, it's the AKP government that steals their bread, it's the AKP government that undermines the rights of subcontractors, it's the AKP government that drives subcontractors. The subcontractors are made to look like they're out of work so they don't get compensation, and then they're rehired a day or two later. In this method, not a penny of severance from a year-old worker is saved up. The AKP government, doesn't the Minister know about this? Of course he does. That's because they're the ones who did the trick and they're the ones who did the trick. The Minister of Labour and Social Security says the public is following the wrong policy on subcontractors now. What's up, Mr. Secretary? Who runs the public? You've been lying around for 11 years, now confessing to the atrocities you've done, saying that the AKP government is following the wrong policy. But there's something weird about this. This lack of mercy has happened to the poor AKP government and the Minister of Labour and Social Security. All of a sudden, they're thinking about the workers. They're talking about giving rights to subcontractors. What, did they get hit by a rock?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0337par0188	There's a choice, a choice.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0336par0189	Yes, it's not a stone to the government, but the verdicts have fallen. The court has ruled that subcontractors working on the highways are the main workers of the highways. The Supreme Court has approved that decision.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0338par0190	But they don't apply it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0336par0191	In addition, similar decisions have been made for subcontractors at many other public institutions. He's still won over 9,000 subcontractors, and the rest is coming up. Of course, the AKP government is on fire. Reparations that already exceed $2.5 billion will be even bigger. This is why the black-minded AKP mentality suddenly rationalizes the rights of subcontractors, which is why this practice is wrong. The AKP is looking to make it look like it's solving this problem with the support of the media. His true intention in this matter is never to give credit to the worker. The AKP, pretending to give something to subcontractors, is also preaching to the public its views on this, trying to lay down on the workers' severance package, suppress their judicial decisions, and prevent new cases from being filed. The Minister of Labor has also been assigned to stall public opinion. The Minister is doing his job well. He's been singing the same chorus for months, always saying one last meeting. There's not even a draft. Take a look at what the Minister of Labor has said: "When Tabheron is trying to solve the labor problem, there are court decisions coming out, we need to resolve it in a middle way. " Mr. Secretary, don't make a fool out of yourself... of intelligent, subcontractors. The middle of what? There are judicial decisions; there are no middle ways, no side roads, no side paths. Don't you know what right is? Don't you know what law is? Don't you know what judgment is? Why don't you proceed with the court order? If you accept that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, your only job is to implement the judicial decisions. You must appoint the subcontractors before they can be compensated for severance. Now we hear that the subcontractors who have won the cases are being set up. They are asked to petition for a restitution on the condition that they give up their compensation. The subcontractors shouldn't get played, not fall into this trap, not give up their rights to the cause. It's a crime not to impose judgment. It's a crime to still employ winning workers as subcontractors. The AKP government has been violating judicial decisions for two years, openly committing crimes. The rights of subcontractors must be given immediately and put on staff. The bill, which stipulates that the National Movement Party will be given to subcontractors who are working in the main and permanent services of the state, is unfortunately not on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It seems the AKP will have to leave for the subcontractors to come. Dear lawmakers, minimum wage is the only source of income for millions today. They can't live on minimum wage, they can't live on subcontractors, how can they live on the money they get? Look at the increase in the price of minimum wage by the AKP (AKP) who has persecuted employees with increased indirect taxes and raises each year, only half a bagel per day. AKP mentality considers minimum wagers to be modern slaves. Today's minimum wage is the price of misery. The minimum wage should be enough to provide employees with a life in the honor of mankind with their family. The minimum wage must be in return for the labor of the worker, not taxed on minimum wage, but the minimum wage must be above the hunger limit. The minimum wagers, the subcontractors, the paid workers, have fallen into debt due to severe income shortages. According to the Central Bank reports, 50.8 per cent of consumer loan users are paid employees and 55.6 per cent of consumer loans are owned by them. Again, 33% of consumer loans are produced by people with 1,000 liras and less income. These figures show how the AKP government makes the minimum wagers, civil servants, workers, pensioners, and fixed incomes in debt, how it drags them down. It is one of the most important and priority tasks of the state to ensure that our pensioners live a life of honor, with no worry about living after years of service, but the entire pensioner is under the age of starvation. Although pensioners are said not to be crushed by inflation, it will be understood that the situation is not as it is said when it is evaluated in terms of food, rent, transportation, water, electricity and gas, which reflect the true inflation of the people. WHY doesn't TÜİK calculate the minimum income index? The increase in officer pensions is determined based on the increase in public contract and employee salaries. In 2014, a gross 175 lira increase was predicted in civil servant base salary. In this case, there will be an average increase in the pensioner's pension of around 140 lira per year, depending on the monthly bonding rate. The SEC and BUG-KUR pensions were expected to increase by 2.85 per cent and 2.36 per cent, respectively, in January and July 2014. As it turns out, the government is giving about 11 per cent increase to civil servants, with an increase of 5.3 per cent in inflation targeted in SSC and BUG-KUR pensions. The AKP government gives pensioners an allowance instead of a salary increase and discriminates between pensioners while giving them an allowance. In this double standard, this bilateral application must be terminated and pensioners must be looked at as one. Retireds have been fighting for seven years to get bank promotion, but the AKP government has not even been able to do that. Retired people are treated like foster children. Mr. Secretary, the SGK pays pensions over 120 quadrillion liras a year. Why can't pensioners get promotions from the banks that make these payments? The AKP government has repeatedly failed pensioners. The pension between pensioners promised to compensate for its injustice, but failed to comply. The law, presented as an intervention, has only been partially improved for former SEC pensioners before 2000. The inequality in pensions of those who retired from 2000 and then 2000 has been ignored. The victims of BUG-KUR pensioners have not been taken into account. Don't lie to the pensioners in vain, that way you can only deceive yourself. Even the Public Control Agency has made a recommendation that post 2000 pensioners need to be treated, but the government has not agreed to this either. What else can you expect from the AKP government, which sees pensions as high! It is the AKP government that adopts the law, which reduces the pension share of pensions from 100 per cent to 30 per cent, which includes the binding of half the pensions today for services after 2008. Due to this regulation, the pension is very low for services after 2008, compared to the previous one. Therefore, the difference between the pensions of old and new pensioners is evident that each passing year it will increase and increase the gap. Thus, the AKP government ruled the inequality between pensions. The AKP government has no idea how to live with the pensioner's month, and he doesn't give a shit. He condemned our pensioners to poverty, made them depend on a bag of coal, a pack of pasta. According to a study of 4,362 pensioners in 47 provinces, do you believe that you can live a happy life? The 95.6 per cent of pensioners answered the question, "No." Retired pensioners with unemployed children have 60.5%. The pensioner's monthly pension was not enough for him, but he also faced caring for his unemployed child. He is unable to live on his pension; many are in debt and suffer severe income. Retirement is supposed to be called free medical expenses, but pensioner takes the pill before he gets his medicine. The pensioner's salary is turned into a bird, with cuts in the name of medical fees, notice fees, participation, prescription money, box money, drug difference money. And why do you work for a pensioner? The prime minister and ministers have increased their pensions, so we have increased them. He does not take into account these interruptions. After that, we didn't get inflation crushed. The stories show that even the AKP mentality tells a heightened story. The pensions must be increased to the extent that pensioners can earn their living, some participation in health care, and bonus cuts from pensions must be removed. The AKP government is oppressing retired tradesmen and artists. You've retired, why are you working? Or why haven't you closed down your workplace? It takes 15 percent of the tradesman's pension. A tradesman who opens a business, offers value, offers jobs for young people, is punished while he should be rewarded. Our retired tradesman is rioting, but the AKP government doesn't care. Our pensioner is trying to figure out how they're gonna pay off the ten-year-old debts. Look, a cabbie friend of ours says, "Where was the government that found us in 15 days in a traffic ticket?" Years later, you worked for us while you were retired. He lends us the amount of money we can't pay. He's punishing us for working. Mr. Secretary, why do you borrow money from employers, private hospital bosses? Why do you collapse into the temple of the tradesman? Is this your justice? As the National Movement Party, we would like to remove the application to cut social security premiums from the pension of the tradesman and artist, and also remove the debt. Dear lawmakers, the state is obliged to set up a social security system that includes equal rights and obligations for everyone. Today, however, many of our citizens are victims. Millions of our citizens who live in retirement, who are eligible for the number of days in retirement, and who are unable to count the period of training and training for retirement, are therefore looking for equality and justice in retirement. According to the legislation he was subjected to on the day of his employment, those who complete the amount of insurance and premium paydays required for retirement seek the rights of pensioners and ask for their victims to be compensated. There's no reason why an injustice can't be dealt with, no rights earned. Our old friends in retirement are trying to make their voices heard again. O government! That's enough. Don't be so cold-hearted. Hear the voice of those who live in retirement and stop stalling and fooling. Again, citizens who have completed the period and age requirement for retirement, but who have not been able to fill the number of bonus days and have no opportunity to fill it, ask for a loan. On the other hand, the limitation of rights to apprentice or internships is only limited to short-term insurance issues, resulting in in inequality and consequential injury. In the current practice, it is against the Constitution's principle of equality for some, such as birth, military, non-monthly leave, that the period of employment and training based on actual work and insurance is not counted from service. Therefore, there must be arrangements in retirement to compensate for the loss of our citizens, who are old enough to retire, who are short on days of pension, who are not considered to be part of the service and training period for retirement. Dear lawmakers, despite doing the same work in the same places in the public, there are many differences among employees regarding administrative, financial and social rights due to their status. You know, in July, the bag was signed by the law, and the substitute Koran instructors were recruited as officers. The AKP's mentality, however, has again done what it knew best with this law -- injustice, discrimination, inequality and injustice -- and has victimised some of its public employees. Under this law, surrogate nurses, family health workers, are disappointed. The joys of proxy imams and proxy muezzins have been left in their sockets. Guidance and master teachers and paid teachers have been ignored. An architect, engineers and technicians, who were originally employed in the municipal staff, and the hopes of becoming an officer of the university have been frustrated. Victims of 4/C have been humbled again. The wages of some employees of 4/C) who are without financial or social rights are extremely low compared to their peers. The AKP mentality seems to be hostile to people with the most limited rights among the public. Temporal and seasonal workers have been ignored again. For years, employees as temps or seasonal workers have not been recruited, especially in sugar and tea factories. I wish the budgets were a blessing, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0339par0218	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat won't be afraid. Come in, Mr. Korkmaz, your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0222	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute the High Council, and at the beginning of my words, I pray that the 2014 budget brings blessings to our country and our nation. Before I speak, I'd like to share one matter with you, our precious Council. I'm also pleased to welcome Mr. Salim Nice Bey, head of Parliament. He tweeted about me, guys. Instead of applauding this kindness -- rather than handing over my say-so to Mr Mustafa Balbay (Mr. Mustafa Balbay) on the first day the leaders spoke -- he made a tweet about me, which was sort of critical and trying to put me in a difficult position in front of our own constituent.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0341par0224	Fitnah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0342par0225	He's been through a lot.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0226	Who is Salim Nice? This is Salim, our good friend, the Chief of Parliament, the man who, when there's a problem here, will seize things with dignity, courtesy, and invite everyone to calm down. Sir, the entire Parliament has actually understood the position of the National Movement Party here, but Mr. Goody, let me tell you in private one more time, I think you have a problem understanding here, let me tell you in private. Against the Justice and Development Party and BDP's so-called attempt to establish Kurdistan, the National Movement Party has decided not to speak on the first day, and I have not spoken on the basis of this decision.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0343par0229	Because he's against it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0230	And this is my right to speak four years and nine months without freedom, in a lawless place...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0344par0231	How do you know it's illegal?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0232	...and I handed over two and a half years of this -- as a elected MP like you, as a member of parliament -- to Mr. Mustafa Balbay, who had not been given the right to speak of this bench. Whether from the Justice and Development Party, which is a common denominator of the state's integrity, the basic achievements of the republic and the unity of the nation, or from the Republican People's Party, any friend of ours, I would pass on this right to speak again because this is a polite stand. Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0345par0234	They won't understand, don't bother, they won't understand.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0235	Of course, when I say it's politeness, maybe I'm mistaken, my friends, I'm bringing Mr. Salim Dolla and the word "kindness" side by side. However, he is a man who has entered the Turkish political history of Parliament by attacking a elected MP in parliament, just like him. So, maybe I should say, "Mr. Nice Guy, who are you?"
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0346par0236	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0237	Yes, Mr. President, I'm truly sorry to have to make such an entrance. Again, I salute you, and in accordance with the terms of the House, I pray that, God willing, we will be reunited with the Speakers of Parliament. Let's sit down and be honest, dear friends. The budget bill you're drafting is a declaration of the AKP government's voice, his breath is running out, and he's throwing towels into the ring. You sold it, you spared it, you squandered the savings of the republic's governments as if it were an inheritance. The sea is exhausted, gentlemen. Therefore, this budget is not a budget that paves the way for our country and our nation. You're going public with a heavy financial disciplinary budget. The paths of love for you and your surroundings, your surroundings, lead to the people. We are enriching the country, increasing the national income. You have come to this day to comfort the nation. Yes, if it's possible to talk about a wealth, it's possible to talk about the Ponzi scheme you've created in your inner circle. The majority of the people are asking: If the country is getting rich, where is our share of the wealth you're talking about? You've always postponed these demands a little later, and the majority have not given you the right of the people who voted for you. You denied it as if it were a scratch on the rights of the workers, peasants, pensioners, tradesmen, and other social groups who carried you to power with their clean votes. Your politics, which you have built on the dignity and adversity of the citizen, are up against the wall, and your frustration has come to light with this budget. The entire budget is on tight incomes. Budget figures say that, not me. The total estimated income tax is 107 billion, the income tax from employees will be 67 billion. That means 63 per cent of the total income tax will be taken from paid employees and fixed incomes. Today, 95 per cent of the goods and services produced go to 5 per cent, the richest in our country, and 5 per cent to the middle and poorer parts, which make up 95 per cent of the population. That's how you distribute the nimeth. So, what's it like in the distribution of burdens, tax collection? On the contrary. The tax collected from poor and middle-class people is well above the tax collected from wealthy people. The difference between rich and poor is 8 times that. Since you're sitting on the honeyy layer, you don't see the other layers, the lower layers, the valued AKP MPs. This is how the economic miracle you've created is reflected in the citizen's pocket. You call it the Justice and Development Party, but when it comes to disbanding prosperity, you suddenly become a werewolf. People ask: 'Where is this justice?' You ride on the back of the nation and make yourselves carry. Where is the power of this nation and where is the respect of its will? Today Turkey is owed the most expensive interest compared to inflation rates -- look, I repeat, compared to inflation rates. So what are you gonna do if you don't owe me money? He has to. Because the main axis of your economic policy is to pay off the debt by borrowing it. Let's see how far you can go. You're still enriching the interest lobby by borrowing people's money inside and out with high interest rates. The Prime Minister himself told me, not me, that the Faiz lobby has become 5 times richer in our time. You raised the monster, and now whatever you throw in front of him, your horse can't get enough. Did your economic policies change after that? No. Keep up the same. That means we're still making the interest lobby rich. You've already taken your place in history as a government that can't even maintain the average rate of development of all republic governments, who can't even achieve the rate of interest lobby and foreign capital, who sees more than a quarter to its own people.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0347par0244	Why don't you compare it to 1999-2002?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0245	As the late Erbakan Hodja said to the college fugitives, you interestrs!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0348par0246	You wouldn't understand, Mr. Recep. Learn to listen.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0347par0247	Compare 99 to 2002, compare it to him.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0248	You don't understand that comparison, Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0347par0249	Do it, do it, you can't do it, you can't do that comparison.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0250	Let's not keep the coven busy, and I'll explain it to you in Isparta.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0347par0251	Eighty-seven percent of the tax collected during your time was going to interest.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0252	You also suppress the masses with your colleagues, yellow trade unions and trade unions, and instead of employees, you deal with union leaders and live off of them. The government, which forces employees to join these unions with its practices and yellow unions, sir, protects it, develops it. They also pay the government's diet debt by silence, ignoring the government's persecution policies, playing the show of Prime Minister. We have a Prime Minister in November. We gave $5 billion to the IMF, $2 billion to Egypt, even to the Indians.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0347par0254	Yeah, you should be proud of that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0349par0255	Let him lend you 5 billion instead of 23 billion.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0256	Mr. Prime Minister, in our country...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0347par0257	We paid your debts.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0258	Look, I'll tell you, I'll tell you, bear with me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0350par0259	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0351par0260	Because he doesn't understand, sir, he intervenes because he doesn't understand.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0261	Mr. Prime Minister, you're offering 400 grand of 4 million college students at home in our country. Are you asking people when you're handing out money for political ambitions? You ask, "Why is a boy and a girl living in the same dorm?" You gave them a choice, and people wouldn't take it? Doesn't anyone ever tell you that with all this money you're giving away, you can solve the whole dorm thing? Doesn't that look like the kind of guy who puts money on people's bellies in places where he earns money?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0352par0262	What kind of analogy is that, Mr. Deputy? Speak up, brother!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0263	This money is people's money, people are in need, but the Prime Minister is handing it out to the nation with his money.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0352par0264	We think big, not small like you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0265	Dear lawmakers, in 2014, only 123 lira raises were agreed on civil servants' salaries. And in the last year, it's just an increase in obligatory spending, notice, 186.5 liras. Your government, your budget has failed to provide a share of prosperity, much less to protect the presence of an officer. So every year under the AKP, the previous one shows mercy, and the working, producing people miss every passing year. Despite the flips, 16.3 per cent of the population live in constant poverty, 16 per cent of the population is on the border, one third of the population is poor. With a rough calculation, that's 25 million people. I'm just saying, maybe you've recently forgotten what this means, but if I told you that 62% of the houses in Turkey live on less than 1,200 liras, I'd be telling you a little bit about the promise. The hunger limit of a family of four is $1.050 a month. Let's go to the bagel account the Prime Minister loves so much. Three children say the Prime Minister; mother, father, five. Let's count that three meals and each meal is pure, with just one bagel and one tea to feed him. Monthly expenses, yes, friends, $1.080. Mr. Prime Minister -- the amount he said yesterday -- there's a minimum wage of $800. He says. So I'm sorry to inform you that the Prime Minister here has made a different account, that either he doesn't know the numbers or that there's a statement to deceive the entire House.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0353par0269	How much is a bagel, bagel? Do the math.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0270	I know, do you? It's up to $1.4, bagel.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0353par0271	Oh, that's exactly what you're gonna do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0272	Look, a dollar of tea, if you put it on...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0354par0273	Mr. Orator, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0274	What kind of economic miracle can you guys still talk about?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0355par0276	How much is it? 60 cents, your teacher told you!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0277	We already told you!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0356par0278	Congressmans, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0340par0279	Whose pocket is this wealth in? Now get your heads out of the sand. Worker, peasant, officer, retired, shopper. We raised the income per person for $10,000. The more you say it, the more you make enemies of the government. In this country, there are only 1.2 percent of the population in the households where $10,000 per person is seen. Consider these warnings, my friends. You may not like it, but for God's sake, is everything we say wrong or every warning we give maliciously? You open your mouth, you know what it's like to be so blasphemous, we've given up thanking you for what you've done. Why don't you tell him that according to 2002, the poverty and debt of households have increased? Then it happened in 2002, and that's what happened in 2002. The foundation of everything you boasted about today was based on policies followed by the government before 2002. The Fast Train, the Marmaray, the measures taken in banking and finance, etcetera, etcetera. And you can tell everyone that you've made these paintings worse than they were in 2002, and you've been creating hungry cuts all the time. Dear lawmakers, when the AKP came to power, before the election, there were many promises he made to the nation, almost all of them forgotten. The AKP has no excuse to tell the nation why it has forgotten these words now. By itself, the power has no barrier to resource use, positioning and enforcing the laws it wants. Then do it, if you intend to, if you can. One of the words you forget is that we will build a staff system based on righteousness and righteousness. This is in your 2002 Emergency Action Plan. According to your promise, public employees have been very supportive of the AKP. At the end of 11 years, the point is that he has failed to make a reform that includes all public officials, which is the focus of the service, based on the basis of justice and righteousness. In order to use the civil servant for his own political purposes, he emptied the concept of the office and, under various names, turned to unsecured employment. In this way, it has opened the way to pay less for the general staff or to pay more for the people close to it. The public's recruitment or removal, transfers and promotions have been used as an instrument of election winning and maintaining power. The laws of personnel adopted were not based on objective criteria, but on reform purposes, but on protecting, caring, and political goals. Public personnel are unhappy, nervous, and never satisfied with what they do. Mr. AKP lawmakers. You say, "Everything is a rose. Let's hope so, let's be wrong, but while the social community's cries have taken over the world, are you in the dream world or are they in denial of what's been done to them? I ask you, should all of our farmers, who have no purpose but to feed their children, take their mother. Are they all liars? They're crying. Because of the debt, we can't go public, we're getting more and more in debt, they say. These have voted for you, dear government. You know how you worry about the trouble of the citizen, who you are, who you are, the big ship for your children, bird food for the children of the nation? I told the officer about the raise you predicted for 2014. He's become a zakat-acceptable, Officer. Don't you see? Retired, weeping, unable to make the end of the month, and gave up the womb, and left the neighbor and the relative in the afterlife; and his son, whom he has brought up with many sacrifices before his eyes, is unemployed. Before, my son, read, have a profession. He was trying, now he's studying college, no job; no master's, no job; no doctor's, no job. Who's gonna solve this? The shopkeeper opens his shop and closes it. I have a child in front of me, and tomorrow I will marry my daughter, and I will ask my son for a daughter; and what will the neighbour say? This budget, which you have made while these social communities are in distress, brings more burdens on the nation. So I say no to this budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0357par0289	Thank you. Members of parliament, as such, the talks of the National Movement Party are over.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0358par0291	Mr. President, there's been a disturbance. Who are you, who are you, and who are you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0357par0292	Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes. Please don't cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0359par0298	Mr. President, the esteemed deputies, who just spoke, also remembered my name and made a number of statements. Honestly, I thought you were gonna thank me for giving you the opportunity to make that statement. But on the contrary, Mr. Korkmaz tried to teach us a lesson in kindness. Yeah, I threw a tweet. I said, "Well, I don't think we're going to eat the trade here, we're going to have to pay for it."
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0360par0301	None of your business! None of your business!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0361par0302	What's it to you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0362par0303	What right do you have to speak on the ideals! Who do you think you are! Fierce!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0363par0304	Shame!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0361par0305	That's a good look for the Chief of Staff!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0364par0306	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0365par0307	Don't say the names of the ulcers. Know your place!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0366par0308	When I said it again...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0365par0309	You go and keep your promise first!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0366par0310	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0367par0311	Congressmans, why don't you respect justice?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0366par0312	Look, the Yusefian archeologists, they're considering all of this, one.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0368par0313	What do you know about the people of Yusuf (Joseph)? Go and tell them about your cooperation with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0369par0314	You look good in the PKK!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0370par0315	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0371par0316	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0372par0317	You've put conservative values under the table!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0370par0318	Let him say it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0372par0319	You've tagged the customers! Shame on you! You go write them on Twitter first!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0373par0320	I'll tell you why it belongs to me. I'll tell you. But I'll tell you something, I've given you your word from the court. If you're saying...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0372par0321	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0374par0322	You can't say it's too bad! You can't say it's too bad! Congressman!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0375par0323	Congressmans, let him make his statement! Why won't you let me?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0376par0324	...the person you have the right to speak to...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0374par0325	You're talking about the congressman. You can't say it's too bad!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0377par0326	You've tagged the victims!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0376par0327	...before Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0377par0328	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0376par0329	If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you what my problem is.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0377par0330	I won't allow it!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0378par0331	I'll give you that permission to speak, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0376par0332	You won't let me! Who are you? Who are you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0377par0333	You've tagged the victims! Who are you!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0378par0334	Mr. Vural, I'll give you permission to speak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0377par0335	Give BDP an account of the rights you made!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0379par0336	Mr. Balbay, who, as you know, is offended by the young officers in his newspaper. He has been rude to the national will and has been tried for it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0380par0338	What did he do?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0379par0339	If you're giving me a lesson in kindness, you'll be careful who you're nice to first.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0381par0342	You know your place! You give me the account of the people who are tagging people!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0379par0343	I am also a person who, under a law issued on March 12, 2004, has allowed the rights of both leftist and archipelago, 25,000 people to be extradited.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0381par0344	Tell me why you gave BDP your word!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0379par0345	You weren't in this House then. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0382par0348	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0383par0349	You're the representative of a government that's been tagging people. You go pay for this first! Yellow unionist!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0384par0350	Sit down!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0382par0351	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0383par0352	Yeah, you're a yellow unionist!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0382par0353	I don't hear anything.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0385par0354	Look, this yellow union that you call a union existed before the AK PARTY, and it will continue to exist after that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0386par0356	You were selling then and you're selling today. You've always sold the worker, always!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0387par0357	Oh, you, you!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0388par0358	Mr. President, he's been picking on me. Let me fix it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0389par0359	I've never heard what Mr. Goodman said. Mr. Korkmaz, I never heard what you said. Please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0388par0361	I heard it, everybody heard it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0390par0362	You'll make out with the PKK, and then...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0389par0363	I mean, you wouldn't let me explain. He may be wrong, he may have done something wrong, but you wouldn't let him explain. Now you want a word, and on top of that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0390par0364	You dirty politicians! You've turned all our spiritual values upside down!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0391par0365	Everyone talks the way they are. He'll look in the mirror, he'll speak up. One speaks as one knows himself.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0392par0366	Because he brought up this argument, which he himself had thrown out, and it was the head of the House that did it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0367	Okay, you said that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0394par0368	I've used my authority in the Civil Law, so open up the Civil Law and see.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0369	Mr. Korkmaz, you said this, and you said it long enough, and you said the words that would give you a reason to tease, and Mr. Nice came to the stand to make a statement, but you didn't give me a chance to explain.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0395par0370	He spoke, sir, he always spoke.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0371	Who heard what?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0395par0372	If he hadn't made a fool of himself, he would have explained himself. Who's holding your hand?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0373	Please, you're welcome...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0396par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0375	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0376	Sir, let me explain this to you, just a minute.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0377	But what did he say?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0378	He used words that said that my comments were contrary to the truth.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0379	No, he told me the truth of his tweet.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0380	Excuse me, sir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0381	I tweeted this. He said Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0382	Sir, I understand, but he made a statement accusing me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0383	He didn't make any accusations...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0398par0384	He didn't blame you, he made a statement.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0385	He made statements that turned my base against me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0386	Now, I'm gonna say something, look, let's do this nicely. Now, you've made a speech here, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0387	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0388	You've explained what that speech was worth, and you've explained it a long time.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0389	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0393par0390	And Mr. Nice got up, and he wanted to make a promise to answer it, so don't tease him, because you mentioned his name, and I promised him, and he came here, and he spoke, but no one heard what he said.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0397par0391	Sir, I heard it, our friends heard it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0399par0392	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0400par0393	We heard it, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0394	There's been so much noise, so help me out with what reason I'm going to put you back on the line before you start picking on me again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0402par0395	It's an insult to say that someone who is hostile to the country's movement is trying to make politics through the archipelago, and therefore we want a word. It's an insult to us that an anti-nationalist, anti-nationalist mindset, politics through the archipelago.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0396	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0403par0397	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0402par0398	As the National Movement Party, as the representative of the nationalist movement, we will respond as the political party.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0400	I don't hear anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0403par0401	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0404par0402	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0403	Mr. Korkmaz, look, now, please, I'm asking you, let me take a break, and I won't, so let me take a look at these reports, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0404par0404	And he said, "It is not for us to eat." He said, "It is not for us to eat." You'll remember, Nevzat said, "The angels don't eat this thing that's called Don't Fear." Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0405	I threw it away. He said, "I said it." He said it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0404par0407	He's targeting me directly.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0408	I don't think we're getting along. Look, I threw it away. He said.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0404par0409	Mr. President, he said a lot of big words behind his back.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0410	Okay.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0405par0411	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0412	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0405par0413	Sir, the National Movement Party is the political representative of the nationalist and nationalist movement.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0414	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0405par0415	Therefore, it is an insult to our group that the noble minister, as a representative of a political movement that says that he has taken the country and nationalism under his feet, is to say that politics is an insult to the archipelago.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0401par0416	Did he say that?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0406par0417	A policy that undermines racism, a policy that undermines skullism...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0405par0418	We would like to speak on behalf of the National Party of Actions in the face of such a mindset creating a trial on the legislators and the criticism of our MP over this trial.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0406par0419	Such a procedure and no basis, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0407par0420	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0405par0421	Mr. Nevzat Don't be afraid...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0407par0422	I don't like this method either, but there's nothing to be done.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0408par0423	If you like it, you don't like it!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0407par0424	And I'd like to ask the members of the group, specifically, not to be repeated. That's not the right way to do it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0409par0427	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I just mentioned that the reason I'm sharing this conversation with you here is because he's a tweet, so they don't pick on him where he sits. And then it came out, and I got it wrong, and maybe I got it over with. I didn't mean to be rude. Instead of saying, "Sir, it's not for the legislators to take over the MP's attitude, which is to say to Mr. Mustafa Balbay. He used such an expression. Now, Mr. Goody, I don't suppose we're going to be taking lessons from you on ulterior motives. I mean, who are you, who are you?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0410par0428	First of all, let him run the House.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0411par0429	Mr. President, he's still picking on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0409par0430	You keep following your steady, consistent path in your own way. It's none of your business! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, my dear friends, I'd like to commend you on the fact that a party that told me this had to go out that day and pass on the right to speak to the BDP. Why don't you throw it in the tweet? Nevzat Korkmaz did this, so we did that. See, that's really consistent. Dear friends, everyone here is bound to tell their own politics, their own lines.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0412par0434	When did he become an idea maker?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0409par0435	It's not your place to consider another party's political movement, especially with forty-four years of history, with 5,500 martyrs in its past.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0436	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0409par0437	...and it's not right. And from now on...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0438	Mr. Korkmaz, please don't bother with the person.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0409par0439	...will be requited with the equivalent of verbal attacks against the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0441	Mr. Korkmaz, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0409par0442	Mr. Salim Nice, the entire House knows who you are and who I am.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0414par0444	By God, we know, we know you wanted to run for office in 2004.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0445	Mr. Korkmaz, thank you. Mr. Slim, come in. Don't threaten me. That's not nice; it's one.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0415par0448	What threat, sir?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0450	Secondly...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0415par0451	No, what threat, sir?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0452	...the Peace and Democracy Party is a party within this Parliament.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0415par0453	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0454	He has the same rights as everyone else, and that's two. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Mr. Slim, come in. I give you my word, please be understanding, my friends.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0416par0458	Don't shout! Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0460	Freedom doesn't mean it's illegal.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0417par0461	Mr. President, they can't insult the office of Speaker. Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0463	Everyone does what they want, tries to impose what they want, and when this comes to the Presidential Court, the people here and the vice president are not promised. Freedom, not lack of rules, please. Here you go, Mr. Slim. Do not shout from your seats whenever you wish. If you call it Parliament, please respect this office where the High Assembly is represented.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0466	Mr. President, you say Mr. Tüyük, then you speak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0467	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0468	Mr. President, Mr. Nice, I was just outside.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0469	What the hell is he talking about? Everyone's scolding me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0470	Sir, you say, "Mr. Tüyük" and then you speak.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0471	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0472	That's the fourth time.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0413par0473	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0474	Mr. Goody has insulted a member of our group.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0419par0475	What did he say?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0476	And since he's not here, as Deputy Director of the Group, in the name of the member of our group...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0420par0477	I don't know what you mean. What did he say?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0421par0478	He disrespected national will and wrote in the newspaper.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0479	A man who disrespected the national will, he said.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0420par0480	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0418par0481	A man who disrespected the national will...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0422par0482	In his newspaper, the young officers were disturbed. He said, "It is the one who uses the expression. "
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0420par0483	By saying the name of a congressman from your group?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0423par0484	It's about Balbay.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0420par0485	For Mr. Balbay?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0424par0486	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0420par0487	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0425par0489	Mr. President, I want it later.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0420par0490	Because of the bullying?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0425par0491	No, wait a minute, it's not that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0426par0493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz, thank you on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group with all my heart. (HPP) To someone who's been out of prison, served five years, served two and a half years as an MP, it's a virtue to show that kindness on the first day he comes to the House, it's a work of humanity, it's a job of loyalty, it's a job of emotion. I'm the last day of the coven. If there was a AKP MP who got out of prison like this, I'd be happy to give him that promise.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0427par0496	I'm sure!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0426par0497	If this were a CHP, I would gladly give it to him, if he were an MPP, I would gladly give it to him, if he was a BDP person, I would gladly give it to him. If, by the vote of this nation, as a member of parliament for two and a half years... You can't put yourself in charge of judgment. The Supreme Court hasn't decided yet, hasn't concluded, the defendant isn't guilty yet, maybe the Supreme Court will break the verdict. How do you know? These people chose him. It is a matter of man; it is not a matter of law; it is a matter of man. Thank you, Nevzat Korkmaz. Thank you, National Movement Party. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What's the big deal? To all lawmakers, no matter who comes, I mean it, even if it's an AKP MP, it's a promise they'd be happy to make. It's a matter of humanity.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0428par0502	Your congressman came out with a constitutional amendment that we made.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0426par0503	Does this have anything to criticize? I mean, when you look at that Twitter, look at Mr. Dolly's tweet, and look at what I threw. I said thank you. I mean, what difference does it make? I'm not on the same political line as BDP, I'm not at all, and I'm not going to be at all, but if a congressman like this comes tomorrow from prison, if the judge releases him, if he swears, I'll give my word to a guest who came that day, at least in the name of humanity, I'll give it again.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0429par0506	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0426par0507	If there's humanity, if he's got it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0430par0508	Mr. President, sir...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0429par0509	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0430par0512	It's a lot of times when lawmakers hand over their personal rights to a demand to someone else. On that day, Mr. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz handed the word to Mr. Mustafa Balbay, a person who had actually sworn for the first time, but at the same time on that day, they handed over his right to Mr. Sebahat Tuncel, a member of the Justice and Development Party in favor of the budget.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0431par0513	People's Democratic Party is a new party.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0430par0514	HDP...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0431par0515	Let go of God if you love him. Party, party, party, party, party, party, party, party, party, party, party, party,
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0430par0516	HDP MP Sebahat Tucson has handed over the right of the Justice and Development Party to him. I'm offering it to the MPs.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0432par0517	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0433par0518	Mr. President, our friend will make a statement on that matter.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0434par0519	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0432par0520	Here you go. Your position, one minute.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0435par0522	Did you ask him why? Why didn't you ask why?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0432par0523	It's not sarcasm, sir. It's a statement.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0436par0525	Mr. President, thank you very much. Just to clear the air. On the first day of budget talks, Mr. Ramazan Can had a say in the favor of our friend, and in the second place, Mr. Sebahat Tuncel had the right to speak. On that day, our friend withdrew his application to speak in favor -- and in accordance with the agreement that was made with the law -- but Mr. Vural warned it not to become a way, in a manner of speaking, that it would be healthier in terms of the Civil Code, as well as in terms of the future, and in terms of practice, if it is in the form of a ruler, it would be healthier.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0437par0528	I mean, isn't that supposed to be consensual? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0436par0529	Mr. President, at this request, our friend has filed a cease-and-desist motion.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0437par0530	Wasn't it consensual?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0438par0531	Didn't you want to pass on your claim?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0436par0532	Otherwise, our second-placed friend could have used his say-so, but since Mr. Vural asked for this procedure, we did it on his behalf. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0439par0535	So, you handed it over to him to give him a promise?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0536	Congressmans, may I have a word?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0441par0537	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0538	Mr. Vural, allow me.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0441par0539	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0540	Allow me. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0441par0542	I don't want to talk after your conversation. Please don't...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0543	I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0442par0544	Well, it's a shame about the time of this coven! You can't run it! Well, you can't run it, Mayor, it's a shame about the time of this House!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0545	Congressman, think about it for a second. Do you know what we're discussing here?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0443par0546	It's a stupid tweet.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0547	We're discussing whether parties will promise each other or hand them over.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0444par0548	Who threw this, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0445par0549	Who did this, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0550	Is that what this is?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0444par0551	The Speaker of Parliament started this, did we start it?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0445par0552	Who brought this up?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0553	Everyone gives their word to each other where they need to be.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0446par0555	If you hadn't promised me later...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0447par0556	Well, all right, fine, just say it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0557	All right, let's stop this discussion.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0447par0558	Just say it, say it, say it.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0559	Please, I'll ask you. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0448par0561	Well, it's obvious, the Justice and Development Party, on its own volition, I have nothing to say to that.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0562	Okay.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0448par0563	The Co-Chair of the HDP party must have handed over the right to speak to Sebahat Tuncel, that's clear.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0564	Okay, it's over. So he handed it over to him. Okay, that's what's going to happen, that's what's going to happen. And if there's a mistake, you can apologize, but don't worry about it. We've been discussing this for 15 minutes, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0449par0565	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0566	These are always the things that must be done in Parliament practice, please...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0449par0567	Mr. President, no one in this House can play with anyone's honor. It's a shame for a congressman to play with the dignity of another MP! Shame on you! Honor, honor, dignity is everything to us, everyone!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0440par0568	I repeat, Mr. Aslanoglu, it is always necessary to act in the practice of Parliament. [[Continue]] 1) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) General Directorate of Highways 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Highways 2012 Central Management Final Account "I") THE INVESTIGATION OF INTERVIEWS AND INTERVIEWS [[Continue]] 1) Information Technologies and Communication Institution 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Information Technologies and Communication Agency Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Civil Aviation General Directorate 2014 Central Management Budget 2) Civil Aviation General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security for Central Management in 2012 1) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The President of the Occupational Qualification Board for 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Budget 2014 2) Turkey and Middle East Amme Administration Institute Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) President of State Staff for Central Management Budget for 2014 2) State Chief of Staff, Central Management Final Account for 2012 Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0604	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about the Ministry's communications at this hour. We're talking about the arrested MPs. Do you know that all claims about our MPs are based on illegal wiretaps, just wiretaps? And after Mr. Balbay had decided, his lawyers applied. İstanbul has a separate law, and Diyarbakır has a separate law. The president of the Diyarbakır Bar has made a statement today. The courts in Diyarbakir say. Let us wait, sir, and let the Constitutional Court write its ruling on the grounds. The court of Istanbul says: "Short decision has consequences." It is the duty of all of us to uphold and ask the rights of the members of this assembly in the face of this discrimination. When we're being discussed here, we don't think it's right to have an argument over us, we find it wrong. If you had any ideas, talk to them, but you did this to the BDP. No, you did this to the People's Council. I'm asking you to. Look, there are about 10 independent and HDP MPs in parliament, and they have a law. Thank you for the photos. Is the Minister out? If you take it from here, I'll put it on Facebook.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0451par0608	Mr. Orator, please continue your conversation.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0609	I do.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0451par0611	You're taking a break, posing for the photographer, please.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0612	No, I'm not taking a break, Mr. President, because I have two Facebook pages that I'm going to give to Facebook because they say the Minister has closed. So I can put that picture there if we get it reopened. It's said that the EC PARTY government is meeting with Facebook and Twitter social media executives, where BDP's official Facebook page has been shut down, and then there's violence -- including Sergiyya Leader -- lawmakers...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0452par0613	Mine's closed, too.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0614	They've closed it at the bottom of Tan. Yes, our pages are closed and the perpetrator points to you, Mr. Secretary, we have to resolve this feud. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0452par0616	He will certainly attack whether he eats a wolf or not.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0617	We know Twitter says no, but this Facebook representative from Ireland, he's got better publicity than Facebook, and they don't pay taxes -- he touched us, and we're gonna touch them, so the reality of life is taking it away. But it's called censorship, guys. It's called, if there's an effort in the future to put digital media under the control of RTÜK. If there's such a big, vast project, it's going to call attention to that project, I want you to know that. Something really, really interesting is going on here. You know, TİB, Telecommunications Communications, our Ministry of Communications, and we've recently visited this place as a member of the wiretap committee. The president's statement to us: 10,000 requests from the courts were denied because it was irregular, 10,000 of them. Look, it's a court order. What kind of business is it that courts have a listening factory? We wondered if the citizens of this country were constantly making math decisions to listen to them all, and we looked into them, and unfortunately, they even signed their own phone calls! Why? In catalogs, such as organized jobs, terrorism, smuggling, judges get their signatures in advance. What happens after that? Coming up... well, look, it's the Office of the Undersecretary of MIT's letter to the Prime Minister. Now, look, here, in the letter written to the prime minister's office, in the investigation file of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, until 2008, 2009, 2012, we can say one of them -- well-known journalists -- because there's been a case, there's been a trial, there's been a trial, there's been a court, there's a code name, there's been a hearing. Then it's explained, and we did it with the judges, and we cooperated, he says. What kind of an event is this? Does he cooperate with judges in a state of law when he makes a decision? Have you seen this anywhere in the world?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0452par0619	There is, there is, there is Mozambique!
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0620	Now, there are very well-known columnists, whose names are written here, one by one, in this decision and behind it, called listening to espionage about these things, and these are documents after the trial. Documents that enter legal litigation cases, administrative court cases, otherwise, it's a classified document, written on it. The secret document states that the implementation of the "code name" was according to the Foundation, Duty, Authority and Responsibility regulations of the MIT, which entered into effect under the Prime Minister's signature. Now, here's something we'll be careful about. If the border is crossed here, if it is appreciated, if there is an exercise in co-ordination with judges, which is called... but, in the end, it's said: let me investigate on the basis of the property and intelligence of the work. Let me not be investigated. Signed, Dr. Hakan Fidan, Undersecretary. We're looking at the gold, the permission to investigate -2 punch -- one of which has been given. The product is not given at the bottom. The Prime Minister's signature is on the bottom. Come on, we get that, the National Intelligence Agency is a special institution. Well, other than that, the gendarme has been listening, and we've seen him, we've seen him, we've seen him, and we've done a study where 13 of his listening devices are missing. The head of an intelligence agency is coming out, and he says three of them work for the mayor of a city. The head of the intelligence agency is saying that to the Council's commission. So, then, this intelligence officer who works for the Council's commission, when we're on the road from the president's statement, how come two or three vehicles are missing?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0453par0622	Which municipality, Mr. Hasip?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0623	It's just a big city.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0454par0624	What about Ankara? Is it not Melih Gökçek?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0450par0625	Now, when we look from here, we're dealing with a situation that's critical: if the MIT listens to the press with a false name and journalists are arrested at the most in Turkey, lawyers are heard, and then listen to all citizens... A Minister of the Interior came in here, passed by, on that bench, as we were talking like this, we were listening to the BDP MPs. He said, on live television, here. We've had so many reactions, the government... How could this happen? How do you listen to lawmakers in this House? What decision did you listen to? Unfortunately, we also found that in a dire situation, not just us, but everyone is resting. I want to say this. In fact, in politics, the nerves are tense in their bows. Election air has been entered, Congress will be nervous, elections will be tense, and then online blackmail tapes, sex tapes, whatever tapes are already being mentioned in a power balance collision. And if they're filled, the fact that the Internet is connected to the TİB, that it's connected to the Ministry, that it's a very sad situation when it's taken into account the international circulation. Why is this double SIM card thing especially used in places like this? Where's the 11 mobile wiretaps from the secret, sealed grant? These are for communication. There are some very serious points here. Now, one of the things that you look at -- if you can take a good look at the indictments, you'd say that Ergenekon listened to the congregation, and then the congregation listened to Ergenekon, and then the congregation listened to the National View, and already, God exists, and everyone listens to us. You don't need to make any decisions about it, you don't need anything, everybody's listening. Now, here, things are changing, forces are changing. Who's the deep power, who's the date? The secret MGK decisions of 2004 are being discussed. Past 2004, 2004 is nothing, so you should look at the years after you. For example, some devices, five wiretaps, two Internet monitoring devices, are said to have been taken from a covered grant and are found in the gendarmes. Don't you have a forge on this, Mr. Secretary? Can't these be kept? Who's in charge? This needs to be done. Now, if we don't take some serious precautions here, there's gonna be some very bad stuff. We have an opinion here as the Peace and Democracy Party. Yeah, you guys have some explanations from time to time. At one point, there were Joint Chiefs, Intelligence, GES, different wiretaps, but now there are TİB Presidents. TİB is looking for a little more attention and attention. Now, in an environment with all kinds of listening devices, in our research, unfortunately, the TİB, MIT, the Police, the Gendarme General Command made fun of Congress as they did not answer our research commission's questions, friends. They made fun of Congress! It's secret, you know. There's secret regulations, you know. You know, it's a state secret. They said, "You know." They put the legislators of parliament -- forgive them -- and they thought they swallowed it. We're clearly saying that 80 percent of listening is done by friends, public officials, and 55 percent of that is done as a listening to 60 percent of prevention; there's no court order; there's 20 of it, here it comes to the TİB, which is connected to the Minister, and there's also a filter through the TİB. Now, there's only one solution, folks. If we want to get rid of the wiretap -- everyone's suffering -- there are four parties in the House, a commission of two members of each party, set up as an audit commission for covert wiretaps, we go under the control of the House, and we cut it off. Otherwise, no one can get rid of their anxiety and everyone will listen. I'm saying it's everybody's problem. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0455par0639	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. It is the order of Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan (D.A.). Here you go, Mr. Tan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0456par0644	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I am not going to make my speech like a classic opposition MP. I mean, I didn't come to everything that power does with the fiction of giving a speech on polemics in the form of "white" whatever we say. I'm going to say what I find positive, and I'm going to present here -- Mr. Secretary is ready, and both of our ministers -- and I'm going to ask our ministers to answer my criticism again, loud and clear. Dear friends, the first thing I want to do before this conversation is to say a few words to Mr. Faruk Çelik. There are many demands from the disabled. They come to the council, visit our groups and individuals every day. He has serious demands for the appointments promised this January, he has serious problems. Again, we ask the Minister to grant the demands of these disabled, especially in January, of all kinds of debates and polymites, non-competitive demands. Because it's on top of everything. Indeed, the disabled are our brothers and sisters who need all of us to serve, whose problems need to be dealt with, our citizens. It's up to us to solve all their problems with a four-way alliance. Whatever you have, if possible -- I say it again in quotes -- by putting everything aside or partially delaying, by delaying, please meet all the demands of the disabled. After that, I'd like to say a few words about land roads and aviation. I'd like to thank the Minister first. The work on six subgates and freeways in Diyarbakır is really positive. And here I want to tell you about an anecdote of mine. The project of six subgates is ready, but there were no tenders given by the General Directorate of the Highways. I've visited the Minister, I've requested that at least two of them be done immediately. They ordered all six of them to be tendered, and all six of them ended as of today. These are positive things, dear friends. So we have to listen to each other about it, say positive things, criticize negative things, and we have to get a distance here. Now, after this thank-you part, I'd like to direct my wishes and wishes, and then my criticisms and questions about serious matters to the Minister and to you. Dear friends, again, in the region, we have urgent investments, which have been done, done, and a significant portion of the projects have been approved, in the tender phase. These are two separate freeways of Diyarbakır. Well, you know, it's done in four pieces, two of them are being done now, but the two parts haven't been auctioned off yet. The Tigris River will be passed through two places; the project of the Silvan freeway is finished, confirmed, awaiting the tender; again, these studies of Midyat, Kızıltepe, Çınar, Ergani, Viranşehir, Siverek and Omarli are finished, waiting for the tender order again. I'm following all of this. Dear friends, we have problems, so after all these positive things, I'd like to tell you about our problems right now. We have a highway story, which, unfortunately, turns out to be a snake story. When these issues are discussed, I say when they come to it, I'm a thirty-two-year civil engineer, and my late father was in charge of the Diyarbakır Highway District Directorate, and I grew up in the garden of Diyarbakır Highway District Directorate, so to speak, but we, Mr. General Manager, have not been able to get past the highway. I visited five of my ministers in a month. All the tender pads have been put in, and the General Directorate of Highways insists on taking the Şanliurfa-Habur highway from a nearly parallel route to the current road, and it insists that it does not give us at least one persuasion meeting to satisfy our persistent demands. I asked Mr. Minister again, Mr. Minister, thankfully an alternative project... Diyarbakır MP and Minister of Agriculture Mr. Mehdi Eker, Batman MP Minister of Finance Mr. Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Bingol, again our Minister, Mr. Cevdet Bey said to prepare a study at the request of all of our friends. They extended the road another 40 kilometers just to show us that what we said was not possible, and they prepared a study that went to Dargate, to Kerboran, and in the end, they put it in front of us, saying, "This is not going to happen." Now I'm asking... and when we get into these discussions, sir, there are certain rules. The road is not made according to pleasure, there are certain criteria, and according to these criteria, this is the way it should be. Well, brother, three, four ministers don't know the criteria for that. People like us, in engineering, on the road, don't know. Well, at least get us together, tell us one day. Batman MPs, Mardin MPs, Diyarbakır MPs, Mr. Minister, please, have Mr. General Manager convince us. Convince the MPs of your own party, convince their ministers. I've brought projects from the General Directorate of the Highways -- which is approved and sealed -- and I've put them in front of Mr. Mehdi Eker, and look, you're going to be on TV and it's going to pass through Diyarbakır Çınar, and it's going to go through the Skysu, and it's going to be like this. I said, "This is what's going to happen." I said, "This is what's going to happen." Our Finance Minister, mixed with a joke, of course in good faith, says: "The money will pass me, don't be afraid. This road will be 40km to Batmana and Diyarbakır. Look, I'm putting projects in front of Mr. Mehdi Eker, and in front of Mr. Finance Minister. Look, it's not like you said. No, we've had tea with our Minister of Transport, we've had coffee, we've had coffee, we've had coffee, we've promised, it'll be like we said. Well, it's not like you guys said; here's the Minister, here's the Director General of the Highways, and there's the projects ahead. So, dear friends, we've got a serious highway problem, we've got a highway problem between Habur. I say again, Mr. Secretary, just as our friends proposed -- members of the AK PARTY and BDP, allied district MPs -- prepare a study. He's prepared the study -- again, I say, thank you -- but the study has been prepared so that how can it not be done? A study was prepared that way. There are certain criteria. One: there are cost criteria, put them in front of us. What's the difference between what you say and what we say? Number two: there are property costs. Three: traffic on the road. I mean, if I do it from here, how much traffic am I going to move, how much traffic am I going to do if I do it from here? Four: the road has maintenance costs. Five, six, seven, eight, ten... Put all these criteria in front of us, convince your own MPs, and then we'll all defend what's right. Maybe this is our last exit before the bridge. If it's for cost, friends, don't do it. Look, a Zigana Tunnel is 12 and a half miles long, with the old money, with the quadrillion, with the new money, there's a billion. You built a Black Sea Highway, you spent 5 billion, you spent 5 quadrillion dollars, you spent $5 billion; every flood takes the way. So don't give us all the criteria in front of the sheep... and don't treat us like peasants... so he doesn't know anything like they came from the village tomorrow, and that's how it's going to be. So, dear friends, we're asking you again: let this highway issue come up again seriously and run a proper persuasion mechanism. Likewise, I ask the Minister a question: in this past month of Ramazan, saint, holy Ramadan, bridges related to the Ilisu Dam and again the roads have been tendered in the region. They're all out on invitations, friends, all of them. Again, with over 500 million dollars, with the old money, it's close to 1 quadrillion dollars, close to $1 billion in new money. What are the tensile ratios here? If these are private jobs, they're not done again, but they're all done in Turkey, they're made heavier, more sophisticated, more sophisticated ways -- what are their units of exploration figures, what is the cost, how were they made, how were they called, what firms were called? And for some reason, dear friends, sometimes when we name names here, it's misunderstood, it's called an intervention in commercial life. It's called an intervention in private life, but if you don't give a name, you can't solve anything. A construction company is taking Erbil Airport, taking Duhok Airport, taking the road to Kerkuk-Erbil, taking the 1 billion 100m-euro Ilisu Dam, taking all the new tenders in Ramadan. So, well, explain how, please, and this firm's 424 trillion tax debts are being erased in compromise. Well, don't name them now, don't ask them, don't ask them, don't ask them... at least 50 percent on the highways, dear friends, 50 percent. When Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu and the Prime Minister arrived in Diyarbakır, we sat at the same table at the same table at dinner, where they arranged the protocol. Sir, they're all transparent. I've been an engineer for thirty years, I've never seen such tenders. I propose that we set up a consortium for half the price of your tenders, build a consortium for us, and form this consortium from the House. Let's build one of the companies in Congress who's an engineer, a contractor.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0457par0654	I think they make them up, they're all contractors.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0456par0655	Dear friends, if we don't ask these questions, if we don't find their transparent, clear answers, we're not getting anywhere. I told you at the beginning of my speech, we'll call positive jobs positive, thank you. That's what the culture of discipline, dedication, and democracy requires. But what we're going to object to, we're going to put in front of you with evidence, documents, papers, interrogations, questions. Another question, like aviation. There is great traffic from Diyarbakir to Erbil. There's a 10-billion-dollar trade volume a year. Two days ago, I was in Erbil. It's a disgrace, it's a disgrace. We've brought up the events at the border crossings over and over again. So, dear friends, why can't Diyarbakır-Erbil, Diyarbakır-Süleymaniye campaigns be held today when there are flights from Erbil to İstanbul to Erbil? Now we ask: "Sir, here is the military airport of Diyarbakır Airport, the military doesn't allow it." We ask the soldier, and he says: "It has nothing to do with us." That depends on international agreements. If these lines were to open... we used to play ball spin, when we were little. We're in the middle. We're also asking: What is the real reason why these Diyarbakır-Erbil and Süleymaniye campaigns didn't start? Is it not available or is it not a plane, or do you not want it, or is it the deep government that we often load everything into, what's going on? And why do these people... why do I fly from Diyarbakır to İstanbul on my way to Erbil?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0458par0658	That's midnight.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0456par0659	And that's what we're doing in the middle of the night, at the middle of the morning, at twice the price, which is going to Europe, sir, so here's Iraq, the risky zone, the world insurance system, what does it do, what does it do with the insurance, what does it do, like it makes up the cover that steals the minaret, and there's an answer to every question, every question.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0459par0660	But not your question.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0456par0661	Here, I'm asking.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0459par0662	Not to him, though.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0456par0663	Why doesn't it start with the military or the M.I.T. or the countererilla, you don't want integration, you don't want airplane, you don't want plane, you don't have money, you don't have passengers? So if you can think of anything else, you tell me, and I'll tell you from here, that's what I'm thinking.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0460par0664	Ask him if there's a rant.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0456par0665	Sir? I don't get it, but I think you're telling the truth. Now, dear friends, for example, the road to Diyarbakir-Bingöl, there will be two tunnels. As I said, there are 12 and 9 miles of tunnels between Tripoli and the Silver House. All right, God forbid we have 30 miles of tunnels, we own the whole country. But this project on a Bingöl-Diyarbakir road, the viaduct and the tunnel couldn't be solved. One minister, Bingol MP, one minister, Diyarbakır MP. I mean, this project, this study, how it didn't go through the highways, and I'm wondering personally, if it had been them, if they had answered. Why did this Bingöl road stay like this? Dear friends, the Niğde-Ankara Highway... now, a continuum on the highways is essential. It hasn't been finished in years. I mean, we're waiting for answers to all this. Like I said, there are positive jobs going on, and we thank you for the positive ones. We can have a better dialogue with the Minister, we can deal with him, but we're having a hard time with bureaucrats, with the general office, not the district. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0461par0670	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Now, Mr. Demir Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0462par0675	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Department of Labor and Social Security. I salute you all, and say good night. Mr. President, in general, the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security is a reflection of a single, rigid, centralist, authoritarian mindset, which is far from participating, is not based on an egalitarian, liberal understanding. It is also conflicting, in which it is the tool of implementation and sustainability of assimilationist policies; it is masculine, it is sovereign, it is hierarchical. In this way, the budget, rather than the benefit of communities and communities, is the service and property of a few, a small minority, a sovereign in power. This understanding is not new, this understanding is not part of Turkey's governments, Turkey's state system and its privacy; it is a reflection of the neoliberal policies in Turkey, which have been implemented on the global scale for more than thirty years since 1975. We know and want to remind you that when World War II ended in 1945, the world, especially the European countries, would have been devastated. The ruins of war, the erosion, the destruction, the political, social trauma that had left humanity face-to-face with an unstoppable wreck. However, Germany, France, Britain, and Italy -- one of the eight most advanced countries in the world today -- were the countries that received a maximum share of this debris. In those thirty years, these countries managed to become one of the eight developed countries of the world, but at the same time, they had as much horizontal social well-being as they did vertically, as well as the need to be a social state. This means that it reminds us of the fact that it's possible for society to prosper, as well as for the state and the system to develop. The development of society, the fact that society's dynamics are developing their own self-government over hierarchical relationships, will not be pleased with this ruling mindset, which begins with Reagan, which continues with Thatcher, with the neoliberal policies, subcontractorization, metamorization, recklessly, is a quality that kills humanity in today's world, as well as conscience. Their reflections in our country have left us facing severe political and social traumas. If you ask me how, we'd better go back and see the reality of the country first. Mr. President, even after a hundred years of the 1900s, we still face the historical and structural crisis of the capitalist financial institution, the radical, systematic solution to its historical and structural nature, while a number of palliative solutions occupy the current and the agenda. The crisis, which was structural and historical, surrounded the entire country in 2008, as it did in 1929. The basic parameters of Turkey's non-inflicted or minimal damage to this crisis are the success of the AKP (AKP), its ability to gain power in 2002, its ability, not its superior effort in this matter, but a portion of the improvements to the pre-privileged, financial and financial system, but the cheap labor force, such as Turkey, is the high capital that flows into a country with the potential for cheap labor, its abundant money, its low currency, its high-night repo interest. The product of this and its work is that in 2008, the global crisis that scorched the world, especially Greece, Portugal, Spain, is still at risk, even though it seems to have been overcome by this sense of consequences in Turkey. In the past decade, the capital that the International Financial Institution has poured into Turkey due to its ability to be a cheap labour force country has led us to a growth trend of six per cent, but we are faced with the fact that we can't get over its ability to be a country that sustains itself on an import-based consumption economy, with high pressure and risk of ejaculation. This balloon...
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0463par0682	Mr. Orator, just a moment. Congressmans, there's a big hum in the hall. Please, please, he's a preacher. I'd appreciate it if you'd do me a favor. Here you go, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0464par0685	This is a ship that we've been able to salvage over the past decade with plenty of money, low currency and high-night stands and high-night interest, rather than the risk of political power if we can't find the safe port to go to, we're facing the darkening and risk of the future of the country's people, the country's workers, the poor. Mr. President, in light of the fact that we have 25 million, 26 million people in our country today, in the light of many of our friends who have spoken before me, we have to recognize that we have a population of 25 million and 26 million in our country. 9 million disabled, 6 million unemployed, 9 million retired, about 2 million subcontractors, in total, about 26 million of our people today face the risk of being disciplined and disciplined under the hunger line. It's a miracle. What's a miracle is that in a country where the minimum wage is 800, there is a need to explain how a family of four and a family of five can survive with a number below the hunger line. This is from the culture of undead communities and society that are supportive, sharing culture in the ancient geography of Asia Minor. Many people face the possibility and the honor of giving each other hands, reaching out, giving commonist communism. But, for how long? Neoliberism forces us to maintain individualism, personality, personal property and existence, and on the other hand, the culture of society and communities based on sharing and solidarity has confronted us with intense conflict, intense conflict. Of course, it's the society that's the primary, and it's the society that's winning, and it's reaching out to the natural adventure of society and society, but in the short term, it may not be possible. In the short term, the hierarchy can transform society into a number of solutions in favor of power, capital, and that's a risk. In that sense, I would like to say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, above all, has a budget for financial expenses, current expenditures, employment, production, which is not based on production, that the staff is still very far behind in the 2011 budget. In that sense, the effort is to improve the employee's conditions, not to democratize them, but to seize their rights, to insist that they are not given their rights. This may not bring political stability and social stability. Maybe you can travel a little further with your ships that you've been running around with some of the advantages of economic stability behind you, but remember, social and political stability is not a species and it's not a function of quantity and diversity. If you do not meet the needs of the fundamental dynamics of the multinational and diverse society on the legitimate ground, your insistence on economic stability will not help. It's temporary, it may have returned to you as property, property, capital, it's provided you with a runt of your urban transformation policies and projects, and you may have taken these advantages of the subcontractorial practices of international financial institutions behind you, but ultimately it's the society that's at stake, the historical realities that are at stake. Dear President, it is not acceptable for the Ministry of Labor and Social Security to be subject to minimum wage, first of all, to have two million people deprived of job safety, union organisation, to be deprived of social contract and strike rights. When people sell their labor, they want to live in safety, in peace, in a state of social and political well-being. That is the right of the poor, and of the workers, and of the oppressed. In this sense, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security must implement a policy based on production, which can bring about 6 million unemployed people to work first. Just as our budget is based on conflict and security, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's budget, a version of this budget, has not put a goal ahead of the Ministry's current spending as a reflection. We have to think of a problem like ending unemployment as our own agenda, but the Ministry and the AKP's administration will take care of the jobless through ISKUR. The Council of Employment and Occupational Advice has put around 4,000 occupational advisers on the board he has established under the name of the Council of Employment and Occupational Advice. But even these were employed as contract personnel, not as a concrete example of how he approached subcontractorship. As contracted personnel, he lacks job security, he lacks union rights, he cannot claim rights, and when he seeks his rights, he faces the risk of being thrown out of the house and at risk. Here, in every aspect of life, the marketing, subcontractorization, metamorphization, an inexhaustible practice that reminds us of a risk at an unstoppable point in the areas of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, as in all areas of Turkey, as it is in all areas. Lacking production, economies that only encourage consumption, which can sustain itself on the market life of consumption, sink, sink, and risk. But when economies are not kept in a controlled position, its reflections, its risks in society are much greater, and the future of society is present, its happiness, its prosperity, its security, with the negative consequences that we cannot predict from today. In that sense, especially the general budget itself, but in private, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's budget had to be fair, equitable, liberal. It has to be fair, egalitarian, liberal, democratic and participating. Because the budget, which is far from democratic and participatory, will raise the hierarchy vertically, I say good-bye by saying good night with my regards to the fact that society will never be able to meet society's needs, and that the 35-year-old conflicting and security-axis understanding that is already going on will bring us much more chaotic and complicated relationships.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0465par0693	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0466par0698	Mr. President, dear congressman friends, this is the second time I've been quoted today. Once again, I salute everyone with love. I'd like to share with you the opinion and opinion of our party on the Department of Labor. Yes, the government's 2014 budget is, in fact, a similar and repeat of 11 years, as noted by the budget bill. With each passing year, the government meets the need for increasing neoliberal policies. The budget, on the one hand, enhances the functionality of capital in line with the market's needs, while on the other hand, restricting freedoms. On 24 January 1980, a series of decisions were made in Turkey that included structural transformations, which passed as economic literature (January 24th) decisions. After these decisions, a serious transformation took place in the economy. One of the reasons for the coup of September 12 was to create the proper basis for implementing the January 24th Decisions. For this reason, attempts have been launched to silence the opposition, particularly the revolutionaries and socialists of this country. Many people were killed, lost, tortured, and tried to be digested as a whole. Today, the government's neoliberal policies in the economic area are being implemented by the coup d'état of September 12th. The employment regime is at the head of the implementation areas of Neoliberal policies. Since 1980, cheap labor in this country has turned Turkey into a labour exploitation centre, and the exploitation wheel is deepening day after day, trying to gather under a single title, with national employment strategies. Dear lawmakers, during the AKP government, a total share of the central budget's GDP has been reduced from 36 per cent to 25 per cent, which means the budget has been reduced. The tax burden has been reduced to 25 percent, the tax has been wronged, and it is heaped on the poor and the paid. There's not a lot of objection to it by paying and labourers under the burden of high taxes, which is exactly what these policies are intended to achieve. For even though his wage is very low, the number of those who cannot find him in this land is not small. According to official figures in Turkey, there are about 3 million unemployed on average, but the real number is far above that. We live in a country where unemployment, especially university graduates, graduates, is expressed in hundreds of thousands, where it is a success to find a job at minimum wage. Dear lawmakers make up a large percentage of society to be paid. Now, they face the loss of their most fundamental rights to work and future security with flexible working order. At the same time, they have to work for long periods of work, low wages and without organization. This work pattern is increasing business killings more and more. Now, business killings have become common in this country. Of course, it's the government that is not taking precautions that are responsible for the job killings. The 2014 budget also aims to further promote flexible working order. The largest percentage of employees involved in this goal is women. In fact, it is a policy to remove a woman from the field of social, social, working and organization, and that policy is applied in a covert manner under the name of recessive work. I'd like to point out from here that we women will continue to fight these policies uninterrupted. Dear friends, the government announced in 2014 that it would be reduced to hiring staff and that public recruitment would be reduced by half from the previous year, but it would re-organised its employee needs in a different way and as a political preference, it would welcome public institutions by restructuring the company's logic by employing contract, low-paying staff in public. Some of the public-owned officers will be put on staff for a period of time, especially in the near term of the election. Of course, we're not opposed to being put on staff, but we'd like to express that there's a decontamination situation. Dear friends, contractual work is a work without job security. It is extremely difficult to say that in a country with ten to 12 per cent unemployment, a contract officer is organised freely. The high level of membership of state-owned officers' unions related to contractual recruitment policies, my dear friends. This practice, also called the flexible employment regime, is another name for taking the labor of workers, women, and children in the home, as it is contrary to basic human rights above all else. In particular, many services, such as paperwork and secretaryship, have been introduced by contractors in hospitals over the past years. In 2002, the number of subcontractors working in health department hospitals was only 11,000, and today, the number of employees found 160,000 is the most concrete expression of how the work life was subcontracted. In order for subcontractors to make more profit, for example, they do a job with seven people, who work more than eight hours, who don't take most weeks off, who don't get regular fees, and even companies who buy from the government immediately pay the workers late. The 11-month-old worker is made to look like he's out of work so he doesn't get compensation, and then he's rehired a day or two later. In this way, it is a fact that for ten years the same subcontractor did not receive a single penny of severance pay. The Ministry of Labor, apart from solving the problems of subcontractors, aims to subcontractorise working life by opening the way for running subcontractors. Dear friends, the Community Benefit Work Programme, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Security considers a solution to the unemployment problem, is being implemented throughout the country, offering unsecured and temporary solutions. These programmes, instead of solving the country's unemployment problem, are deepening the problem. The Community Work Programme is no more than a program created by those who run the country to win the votes of desperate citizens around them. This programme is funded by the Fund for Unemployment Insurance, which has been cut from the insurance premiums of every employee. In other words, with money coming out of citizens' pockets, the government is creating employment. However, the invisible side of the work is that the ruling AKP (AKP) has a say in the selection of participants in the programmes. Even the distribution of institutions is part of public opinion, which is determined by party managers. A press statement was issued by the Bureau Workers' Union on December 10, 2013, and Diyarbakır İSKUR branch of the Ministry has assigned 5/5 of the People's Work Programme staff assigned to Diyarbakır İSKUR Director Museum Directorate to protect themselves. Dear friends, again, the government aims to authorise private employment offices. In this way, İSKUR will be cut off, handed over to public-duty employment companies, and new markets for modern, human trafficking will be established instead of slave markets of the 18th century. Dear friends, one of the biggest problems with hiring is staffing. Important state institutions are usually staffed by interviews. This method shows the size of the staffing. One of the practices that have become routine now is that torpedoed unemployed people -- the privileged class -- take the exceptional staff to the ministry and institutions without a test and start work. This privileged class, a few months later, is appointed as a civil servant to a position where it wants to be, and this circulation is thus carried on by another person to be appointed as an exception. There are thousands of people who have been made without exams. In this way, that privileged class has to prepare for a test in important parts of the state, with no effort, just government visas, hundreds of thousands of unemployed working and spending a lot of money, with copies such as KPSS, with injustices. Every day, I'd like to share with you that there's been a growing reaction to this method. Just as with travel actions, none of us should ever forget that social savings will one day cause an explosion. Dear President, dear lawmakers, we know that the government has only increased the purchase and service costs by 1.9 for 2014. Earlier, the implementation of municipal staff costs did not exceed 30% of the municipal budget. This means that public institutions are forced to save money from public services.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0467par0713	Mr. Orator, may I have a moment or two of your time?
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0466par0714	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0467par0715	I'll give you five minutes plus your time. I'll give you more time than your other speaker. I'll give you plus five over normal time. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0466par0717	Yeah, okay. Again, the most concrete result of the significant decline in the Labour Ministry budget in recent years is the increase of controllessness and the spread of unregistered employment. In particular, in recent years, many workers have been known to be victims of job killings due to the lack of sufficient share of business control from the ministry budget. Legal regulations for labour health and occupational safety have been made, but with the lack of health inspections in this area, it seems inevitable that new work killings will increase further in the coming period. At the same time, the economy is rising through the insecurities of workers. The nakedest image of insecurity is that workers' deaths continue to increase year after year. According to Social Security Agency data, 865 was killed in 2008, 1.171 in 2009, 1.144 in 2010, 1.563 in 2011 and 867 workers in 2012. According to the monthly reports of the Istanbul Labor Health and Business Safety Assembly, 1,017 workers died in the first ten months of 2013. We don't know the real numbers because according to the Department of Labor, over 25 million employees are insured in this country alone. We all know that most of the insurance people's business accidents are not on the record. In factories, workshops, shipyards, constructions, mines, and fields, there are basically workers killings everywhere. In Turkey, where 10,723 workers have died in the last decade, average 1,072 workers lose their lives each year. This is an important picture of workers' healthy and secure working conditions being ignored. Again, a study of occupational illness is not done enough by the government, by the Ministry of Labor. The Social Security Agency states that around 400-500 workers suffer from occupational illness each year, while some years there were no deaths due to occupational illness. Whereas we all know that we watch closely asbestos, asbestos, asbestos, the death of jean sanding workers, dental workers, and dental technicians. Every day, one of the cot sand workers with silicone disease dies. Despite four deaths from silicone in dental technicians, we know this is not on the social security database. Dear friends, these examples are very concrete in showing the value of human beings and how human beings are devalued. We will continue to fight against capitalism, exploitation of labor, poverty and thalana, the gap in income distribution, hunger and poverty, the flexible and unsecured work, the uninsured work, the unsured and unsecured work, the unionisation, the gain of earned rights, the work killings, the inequality of gender, the party, and the struggle with women, and the struggle with them, and together we will not expect to expect to be given rights. Once again, I salute everyone.
tbmm-2013-12-12sit04spe0468par0727	[[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Aydoğan. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
