tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, thank you. Members of parliament, the week of November 22nd is celebrated as the week of Dental Doctors. And I hereby made a promise to you about the problems of my dental profession. In the 105th year of this honorable profession, I pay my respects to all my colleagues and teachers who practice dentistry. Dear lawmakers, along with diseases such as oral and dental disease, carotid disease, diabetes, and cancer, have been identified as the fourth most common and not most important infectious disease. Tooth decay affects 90 percent of society. Mouth cancer is the 8th most common type of cancer. Also, tooth contusions affect 70%, 90% of schoolchildren. In 2003, when we study the policy of transformation in health, we find that the Ministry of Health is trying to solve oral and dental problems with around 7,000 dentists and 3,200 dentists in universities. In this transformation, all humans were allowed to go to all the hospitals, and they had positive aspects. But when colleges were supposed to be dealing with more complicated, more volatile cases, they started to deal with the simplest fillings of teeth, and they started to get away from education, and the quality of education started to drop. These budget talks say that 140 ADSMs have arrived; this is a positive thing, but we see 140 ADSMs opening up in areas where the distribution in Turkey is extremely negative and the purchase parities are high. We believe that adequate dispersion should be opened at once, opening ADSMs in the backward areas. The dentists who are already under performance clamps in these ADSMs -- listen carefully to these figures -- have an average of four crowns per day, 0.7 or full prosthetics, 1.3 root canal treatments, 8 dental cleaning, 4 dental work, 1.5 child teeth, 8 fillings, 0.5 children's fillings. However, scientific data and universal values tell us that in order to do all these operations, it must work for 15.7 hours, 16 hours. This does not coincide with any human attitude, let alone a day's work. So counting those rates by just looking at the numbers can only be a slip of the tongue. In addition, the state paid $1,377,000 in 2011 for oral and dental care in public. With this scientific data, it is not possible to do this work with this money. We haven't received the 2013 data yet, and we haven't yet. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at this very moment, I would like to bring to your attention a matter that I have been paying attention to for a very long time, but cannot be fulfilled. Five years ago, a sustainable project was presented by the Turkish Association of Dental Doctors to receive services from free-working dentists, particularly practice offices. Public service is being taken out of all the health sector pencils, while today only dentistry services are kept out of the scope. This causes us to go further and further back every day at the oral dental point, which is already far behind the world's average. It also leads to the despair of over 15,000 colleagues who have a practice and serve in the most remote corners of Turkey. This problem must be resolved at once. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, there is a growing disconnect between general medicine and dentistry training in our country. Lifetime education and post-graduation education are essential. We're going through a period when oral dental policies are built on the destruction of each other by public and freelance dentists, where the clinics are closed down, the number of free-working dentists are reduced, the number of employed dentists are without job guarantees, the misperformation is enforced, and the investment of free-employed dentists is forgotten. Subcontractorship is the biggest problem of health. In the first week of November, Kütahya was also tried, but was repelled by our colleagues. Dear lawmakers, dental technicians who work in labs that serve ADSMs, face negatives due to unfair competition brought by the tender system. The use of cheap and unstandard materials, the long hours, the lack of ventilation, the lack of health scans, and most importantly, the lack of control causes serious lung disease. The number of dental technicians who died from Silikosisti has reached seven. In light of all the problems we've been going through, the Department of Health-Turkish Dentist cooperation with the Community Mouth, Dental Health Action Plan... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...should be brought to life, a viable and sustainable strategy for both patient and physician. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik. Here you go, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the week of Mouth and Dental Health and the day of the 22 November Dental Doctors. I salute your high council, congratulate you on the day of my fellow dentists. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I now address you with the words and sentences of the waves from my vocal cords, the teeth in my tongue, and the contact of my lips. People have a set of teeth, they can change their cars every five or ten years, but they only have one set of teeth for a lifetime. They must be protected. A Japanese proverb is not knowing how to know but not being able to turn it into life. As a society, we seem to know the importance of mouth and tooth, but we're not really trying to protect your health, so we don't know anything. Honourable MPs, I'd like to share with you some vital information. A 5-17-year-old group of children's dental infections, which are present in 60 percent of the time, causes growth failure. It is known that individuals with poor oral hygiene are four to five times more likely to suffer from chronic respiratory disease. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do you know what is as striking as this data? According to the World Health Organization, oral and dental disease are preventable diseases. First of all, we will be able to prevent oral and dental disease from developing protective and preventive treatments at the age of 0-18, or by simple treatments, our oral dental health and, therefore, our overall health will be preserved. I'm afraid we don't see oral health as a component of general health. To draw attention to this, the conference held by the World Dentists' Association in İstanbul in August was intended to be considered a component of oral health in the Istanbul Declaration, with approximately 4,137 foreign participants. There are 49 dental schools in our country. 3,200 people in the faculty serve to improve public health and public health, including 6,195 in the private sector, 14.195 in the private sector, 14.195 dentists. In recent years, our Ministry of Health has tried to serve in ADSMs with a tremendous amount of direction to our community. Dear friends, in 2002 2,438 dentists served with 1,465 dental units, while now 6,195 dentists serve with 6,462 dental units as of July 2013. In 2002, there were 1 dental hospital, 13 dental clinics, 125 ADSM, 6 oral and dental hospitals, 110 dental treatment and prosthetic centers, 738 clinics. Is that enough? It's not enough. As Kadir Bey stated earlier, a dramatic data is: In 2011, the current health expenditure was 68 billion, 607 million dollars, while the Social Security Agency announced the cost of mouth and dental care is 1 billion 367 million. It shows that, unfortunately, the cost of oral and dental care... the possibilities and opportunities will have to be opened to our society even more. Another issue is that 14800 dentists in Asia Minor... the ADSMs are in the centers, and our dentists prefer our major cities in Anatolia. Thus, at the point of purchase of services, our Ministry of Finance, our Ministry of Labor and Social Security has actually taken a major step; the system has now determined how to manage, how to buy services, but in our Economic Co-ordination Board, the way to buy services on the health upper board is pending. So in our talks with members of the Economic Co-ordination Board, hopefully in the coming process, we would like to open the way for us to buy services if we are able to persuade them on certain issues. In fact, we specifically want to say that if we can't buy services from the entire community, then the way to buy services from a protective and preventive dentistry point, under the public health strategy plan for the age of 0-18, which is 4-18-year-old group, has to be opened.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0005par0045	They're waiting five years, Bayram, five years. What kind of dental health is that?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0004par0046	On the occasion of Mouth and Dental Health Week, I invite all our parents, teachers, to be sensitive to oral dental care, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Your Grace. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, who asked about Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise regarding the nuclear power plant, which was planned to be made in the Akkuyu region of Paradise, which began illegally without the CED report. I salute the lawmakers who do not do illegal work, lie to their people, slaughter the environment for the sake of rant and stubbornness. Dear MPs, today is the Day of Children's Rights of the World. While the world's trying to move forward with child rights, you have the right to live in a clean environment that is our children's most important right to live in. In the south, Mersin Akkuyu, in the north, Sinop, in the west, they become nuclear plants, even though we don't need Needles at all. You're causing trouble for our children by building nuclear power plants here, making their future dark. All the world's countries are trying to get out of nuclear trouble, and they're moving towards clean energy, renewable energy, and you're ignoring them. Look, even a country like Germany, who's a giant in technology, who's now given up on nuclear power, turned to solar energy, with the Chernobil and Fukushima catastrophes written down in memory, and you're risking the lives of children in Mersin because of the Prime Minister's stubbornness, lying to our children and as a bad example to them. You lie to our children on World Children's Rights Day. For months, there has been movement in Akkuyu, some work, even though you haven't received the CED report yet. What's going on there? We're asking you, we're just studying. You're saying, "What's going on in there?" I'm trying to get into the nuclear power plant area as Congressman of Mersin, and they won't let me in. What is it, sir, the Minister's permission is required. In my own country, in a city where I'm a congressman, I have to ask the Minister's permission to enter the nuclear power plant area, and I can't believe my eyes. All your lies come out, your cover falls off. The first thing I saw in the nuclear plant area was thousands of trees cut down. I see dozens of working machines and trucks, and I see them. Look, I'll show you some pictures. You see, here you see Akkuyu, a region from heaven. See here how you destroy a region from heaven with business machines. You can't get a rose out of here. In reference to Veysel the lover... he greets me with a rose when I dig his belly open with a shovel. He says to the black earth. Here you are, digging, shoveling, doing a job where the nuclear power plants will meet you. Look, I'm counting 13 trucks here. Look, look at this beautiful view, please lift your heads and look at this beautiful view. You're building a nuclear power plant here, and you're making our future dark. I'm asking the Russians: "When did this construction begin?" They say that the Russians were more honest than you were: "March 30, 2013." I mean, eight months ago. Well, is there a CED report? Still nothing. So, how did you get started? The Russian engineer says: "Sir, we sat down, we thought, as a Russian nuclear plant, we decided to run a quarry here. Turns out there's no legal obstacle, the CED report is delayed, the nuclear power plant is delayed, so we thought we'd start working with the quarry cover. It's happening with the governor's permission, so..... why did you kill the trees? To build fire roads, sir. If you're running a quarry, what's the use of fire roads? Sir, that's none of our business. Now, out of shame, Prime Minister, we're environmentalists! No one can compete with environmentalism with us. You must certainly explain what negotiations are behind these deceptions and lies. I know you can't explain it, but when the time comes, I'll explain what these negotiations are all about.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0008par0061	Explain now!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0007par0062	Here I wish there was the Minister of Energy. I'd like the Minister of Energy to come out here and deny these allegations, these images of me, but it's not possible.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0008par0063	Explain now, now!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0007par0064	You're making fun of the intelligence of the people of Mersin. Only stoneheads believe what you're saying, and everyone thinks they're their own people. You'll see, Mersin will see to it that you're right.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to give our members of parliament a minute of your time to enter the system. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that in recent days there will be amnesty, mountain landings, prisons openings, pardons, peace. Since political will is often used by the government, there will be a riot, a movement in some neighborhoods in Adana, so the separatist organizations cause the loss of property and lives of PKK property, people are dying, people are dying and injured. Against that, I have been promised to get the government's attention, therefore the Home Office's. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0011par0076	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0012par0079	Mr. President, the Justice and Development Party has been running a black campaign against classrooms, study centers and reading halls recently. On the one hand, we will not touch the classrooms. The government's Speaker Arinc says, "On the other hand, these classrooms are already business institutions, why are they being taken care of?" I remind this person, who says, "I am not an ordinary proxy. Are private schools where you can be replaced by commercial centers for free?" You say that not everyone is available, but the classrooms are already paid. Let's say the tuition fee is 2 billion, 12 billion for the private school you want to replace. Your Honor, we knew your policies that you've been inconsistencies for 11 years, but we didn't even know you could do such a simple math. Either you don't know the score or you didn't get beat up. This nation says it will give you a taste of this beating in the first election, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0014par0085	Mr. President, November 20th is Children's Rights Day. So I hope that all the children of the world will be given their rights to children, and I hereby celebrate Children's Rights Day. The Grand Ataturk gave the Day of the Child of April 23rd, and on this occasion, I would like to reminisce of the Grand Ataturk. Mr. President, I'd like to ask the government for the Day of Children's Rights: According to the Labour Minister's statement, nearly 6,000 child workers were employed in our country in 2012. In 2013, as of November 20th, how many child employees have been identified? In 2012 and 2013, how many children were killed, injured, and injured in a work accident? As a member of the International Labour Organization, why is the AKP government failing when we should be fighting for child labor? We've had enough struggles with child labor...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations on the Dentist Week of all our dentists. There is no other country in the world where Turkish people are victims of Turkish health care as well as our dentists and health services. Our physicians and dentists and all health care services, whether it's a matter of rights or other issues, serve in great burdens, in great difficulty. I salute all health workers from here. Besides, today is the 20th November World Children's Day. I kiss all our children in the eyes of Turkish children. Congratulations on these children's good days. However, we also have to see that Turkish children are in great straits ahead of us right now. In particular, we live in Turkey, where we have children living in foster homes, street children, Tiner children, child laborers, children's marriages, intensive problems. However, most importantly, we are experiencing a period of severe problems with alcohol, cigarettes, and drugs, such as Internet addiction, and falling behind in their schools and studies. However...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Last weekend in Diyarbakir, the response of the families of the martyrs to the ceremonies, which were praised and blessed by the Prime Minister himself, was like an avalanche. I'd like to express that reaction. Turkish Education-SEN has expressed reactions to this theatre in Diyarbakır, the tent theatre in all the cities in Turkey, especially Ankara. Speaking here, the families of martyrs have expressed that they have not declared their rights, that the bones of their martyred children are aching in their graves. I'd like to share this with you. On the other hand, an amnesty debate has been launched in Diyarbakır. With this general pardon debate, will the prisons to be evacuated be filled with 300,000 people who are waiting or wanted to pay for the violation of their commitment to the prisons next to them? I want the government to answer that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers, don't you know, gentlemen, that the motion to question is a constitutional institution? Don't you know it's a constitutional offense not to answer questions? Why don't you give the question proposals accurate and extenuating information, and you'll be evasive? Especially when it comes to tenders, money, budgets, and spending on them, you avoid giving round answers. To refuse to answer questions is to avoid supervision, to underestimate the institution of the question. In fact, those who don't answer questions about spending money and bidding are the ones who hide things; the round, evasive responses are the ones who declare themselves to be corrupt and corrupt. When power changes, the first thing to begin is the unresponsive question motions. I'm just saying, for the record.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0021par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Balıkesir Erdek, Edincik, Marmara, Smurf Sergeant, Misakça, Across the border, all of the region of Marmara earns its bread from olives. In the region, agriculture is dying, livestock is over, and now it's time for the olive, the only source of livelihood for our people. Look, there's 725 thousand acres of olives in our area, and there's 1,200,000 olive trees. Because of the region's climate property, the government has lost 50 percent of our olives in the region because the Ministry of Agriculture has not done its duty on time. So our manufacturers have lost 50 percent because the olive fly has not been dealt with in time. However, even though mazotta, fertilizer, medicine, labor has an extraordinary increase, prices remain the same, constant. Now, I'm asking you from here to the government: you caused the loss of this product. The prices are the same. How's this manufacturer gonna make a living? I would like to request that the research on these be done, and that the debt of our local farmer, our olive maker, our olive producer, be fixed and postponed until the next term.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0019par0113	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0022par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Every year, November's third market is a day to commemorate world traffic victims. The total number of fatal, injured accidents in Turkey is 153,552. A total of 3,750 people, including drivers, passengers, and pedestrians, were killed at the scene, and 268 thousand of our citizens were injured. How many of the injured have lost their lives at the health centre where they were removed; how many have lost their jobs; how many have to live their lives as disabled? What about their families? According to the Law on Highways Article 78, some drivers and passengers have been excluded from the use of protective equipment. Our internal law has failed in this regard. Of course, every driver and passenger must be provided with a preservative requirement. Who, of course, is responsible for those who do not have to use seat belts and who have lost their lives, who have been injured, who are disabled, and who, of course, are responsible for their families?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0019par0118	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0023par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to share with you the cry of a retired citizen who has a population of 9 people in a 240 square-metre area on the island of Yavuz district of İstanbul, 181 islands and 4 plots: there is no way to pay the government's 2/B fees, and the application he made to the Kadiköy Milli Regional Directorate in writing has not been granted an answer to the request to extend its debt due to a four-month period of time passed. We have similar citizens in Kütahya, Çanakkale, Balıkesir, and many other provinces. I call upon the government to take measures to address the problem 2/B and to address the victims of our citizens who are having difficulty paying, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0019par0123	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0024par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the districts of Kahramanmarash is Elbistan, Afşin, Ekinöz, Nurhak, Göksun, Andirın, Türkoğlu, Pasakcık and Çağançerit, and many of our central village roads have not been done, unfortunately many of them lack patch. Because of the dust soil in summer and the winter we're about to enter, our citizens in that region will suffer a great deal of damage. I'd like to address the concerns: We'd like to make a special request for the necessary procedure at the point of the village routes of Kahramanmarash and its districts. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0025par0133	What do we hear about children on Children's Rights Day? Our children will have a crippled future because they don't get enough vaccination. We have children in the family, in school, in the street, in the workplace, in the dorm, in prison. As a form of violence, the news of children being raped, sexually abused has become public in the newspapers. Children's brides, married at a child's age, are a product of conservative mentality with a degree of violence. Gangs that the government condones attracting children to drugs are an unresolved anxiety in families. It is a painful fact that children of school are employed to contribute to their family life, and the number has reached a million. I call on power to stop harming our children, hands off. Don't underestimate our children's right to a healthy future. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0026par0139	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0027par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, according to a statement published in the Official Gazette on November 15th, the Turkish National Assembly, or nation, will pay for the differences of lawmakers from health participation and contributions and hotel services. It's a disgrace, my dear friends. When citizens go to the hospital, they pay a contribution and participation in at least ten places, while pensioners are turned into birds, such privileges are never acceptable to lawmakers. It is neither moral nor human that lawmakers have any privileges other than the immunity of the bench. With what face will the MPs face the citizens? Lawmakers don't need that kind of practice. He says that these and such phrases must be cancelled immediately, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0026par0144	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0028par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Subcontractorization has become cancer of the health system. The issue is that 43 workers working at Hacettepe University Medical School Hospital have been laid off on the grounds that they participated in an illegal act against the contract of subcontractors under hospital administration. Private security attacked the workers who set up the resistance tent after they were fired. What is the legal basis for the dismissal of workers, given that the act of quitting is a democratic rights-seeking operation under legal protection under international contracts in which our country is a party? Is the reason for this act to be considered illegal because the staff who carried out the action were subcontractors and reported the work arm differently? Why did the hospital administration, which said it would meet with union representatives and reconsider the condition, instead of starting the talks, go through the process of firing workers? Subcontractorization must be removed immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0029par0150	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0030par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Nationalist Movement Party, I congratulate all dentists as part of Turkey's Dentist Week, and I wish this week to contribute to the development of awareness of oral and dental health. Mr. President, yesterday, unfortunately, a Mr. Secretary who had to use the Turkish nation's sovereignty to govern and serve the state of the Republic of Turkey has made very grave statements. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, Mr. Mehdi Eker has made a claim that the PKK has been provided with troops. It is a mentality that shows the PKK as a soldier within the state and the PKK terrorists as well. There will be terrible consequences. Therefore, I ask the government to correct this statement immediately. This is how I would like to state that the Turkish Republic has been revealed in its separatist mentality as a military statement to the Turkish Republic. I ask that these statements should be removed from the text, and that the Parliamentary presidency may make the necessary initiatives in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0031par0157	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0032par0160	On 14 November 2013, Mr. President, last week at the Izmit west entrance of Kopeli, five people stopped the ski masks, shotguns from the tollbooths, and they searched inside the vehicles with their flashlights, looked at the identities of the people in the vehicles, and they identified themselves as JİTEM Τ, and were detained by police as a result of the information of a sensitive citizen's police. Now, I'd like to ask you, are the only people who are guilty to you, in Turkey, when you turn their borders into an inn where the bandits roam in their cities? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0033par0163	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0034par0166	Mr. President, the olive harvest has begun. The non-member of the Union is unable to benefit from the support given to non-employer oil; the industrialist, the factory owner, and the merchant benefit from it. This is the year of no olives. I think that if support is given not to oil, but to grain, each producer himself will receive this support, not by supporting oil, but by supporting olives, and by allowing that support to weigh in, it will allow the manufacturer to breathe a little bit. At this point, your witness wishes the government to take precautions with his channel, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0033par0167	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0035par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, first of all, what does this government want with young people? Now, when we look at the media in the way young people display their constitutional rights, it's really a very negative scene. Our young people are dragged, beaten, and taken into custody. The last example was the treatment of the students of Giresun University. Minister of Youth and Sports: After the statement and after the raid of girl-boy homes, the students were taken into custody and were not authorized to march to Ataturk Square for their constitutional rights to protest. In this context, 12 students were taken into custody and two girls were taken to the hospital. Please, let us listen to our young people's voices, give them authority, oversee them, but let them take responsibility. The way they're treated, the way they've been treated, the way we've been treated, the way we've been treated. So I say to be careful, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0033par0172	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0036par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. When the AKP was in power, the Constitution's secular principle was virtually destroyed. This will follow, because once the secularism principle has been breached, after the rules of religion have been dominated by the state, after which Friday's official holiday, the official wedding by imams, the sheets and veils become increasingly mandatory. In elementary schools, teachers will set an example for seven - year - olds with their heads closed and will soon create an atmosphere where people in open modern clothes will be condemned or even despised. This leads us to the religious wars of the Middle Ages, sectial conflicts, and darkness. The AKP's ruling was carried out by 4+4+4 education system, much heavier than those of the Constitutional Court who sentenced him to a fine for being an anti-legal focus. He has now declared that he has removed the secular system of the Republic of Turkey with actions. They think they can bring back the history, since they rule the army, the judiciary, the police, the gendarmes, the bureaucracy, the MIT. I want to say here that this is a dead end. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0037par0178	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0038par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Manisa Organised Industrial District is at a point that is very, very far back from this, not in terms of the year in terms of union fighting, in terms of freedom of organization. In fact, when we look at pre-1980 organisational figures, we're about 10 times behind that time, and I want to say that a transparent resistance tent that the workers who have resisted the Standard Profile factory for a hundred and ninety days have set up to protect themselves from the cooling weather and the beginning of the rains has been removed by police hands on Friday, and we've only been interrupted for a while. However, for a hundred and seventy days at a company called SANPAN, the door number of the Ministry of Labor's authority has been issued only because of an objection to the authority, which has been written down instead of (5) and the entire union workers have been threatened to be laid off. I bring the matter to the Council's attention and knowledge.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0039par0184	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0040par0187	Mr. President, yesterday at the E.K.S.A. company, Hüseyin Doğan and his friends were severely hit by another group of workers, employees of that company. The treatments of five workers who were attacked are currently under way at the state hospital in Bolu. I got a call this morning from the ICU with Hüseyin Doğan. The attackers, who were attacked, have reported to us that without any discussion, the attackers have taken action without any prior hostility only because of their political thoughts and ethnic identities, and have severely injured these five friends. They've informed me that no well-known director of the AKSA (AKSA) has ever even made a phone call to the employees of this company. I'd like to bring this racist, segregating attack on the agenda of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0041par0190	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Finally, Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0042par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, to monitor our General Assembly... the Republican Tournament is held in the district of Bursa Orhaneli... and the Republic Tournament has won the village of Orhaneli Deliballis. I have been promised to present them to the General Assembly in this way and to celebrate their championships in football. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0043par0197	Thank you, Mr. Irony. We're celebrating them, too. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek was granted an official visit to Iraq on November 26, 2013, with a parliamentary delegation to Iraq to accept the invitation of Iraqi National Parliament Speaker Osama Al-Nuceyfi. Under Article 2 of the law referred to by political party groups to form our delegation, the names are referred to by the General Assembly. [[Ankara]] [[Bingöl]] [[Çanrı]] [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Sivas]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament (EP) was adopted by the Pre-Accession Action Unit (Pre-Accession Action Unit) for co-operation with the Western Balkans and Turkey's parliaments in the 15th Union of the General Assembly in Brussels, Belgium, on 25-26 November 2013, about "economic crises and the impacts on European policies and the enlargement of countries." The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. [[Bitlis]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Joining the Parliamentary Environment and Interior Commissions Meeting in Vilnius, Lithuania, will be held by the chairmanship of the Council of the Council of Europe on 24-25 November 2013, was adopted during the 15th Union of the General Assembly dated 12 November 2013. The name of the Justice and Development Party Group, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to attend the meeting under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 3620. [[Zonguldak]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are two motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As for the Development Agency's Foundation, Co-ordination and Missions established by the Law, which is published on February 8, 2006 and 26074, the Constitution requires the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Yours truly. [[Adana]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Edirne]] [[Adana]] 9) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] 10) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Let's go.]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] In order to develop co-operation with the Law on Development, Co-ordination and Jobs and local and regional development, effective use of resources, mobilising local dynamics and internal potential, creating a new momentum for regional development as a result to ensure that regional development policies can be implemented effectively. In this scope, development agencies have been opened in Adana (Cukurova Development Agency) and İzmir (Izmir Development Agency), and 26 development agencies have been established throughout Turkey since 2006. However, due to the failure of the development agencies' law, the vast resources transferred to agencies were used in unproductive areas, and the main goal was not achieved. Other than that, within the grant programme, agencies give grants to some industrialists for the machines they're already going to buy and pay them to do what municipalities need to do, allowing the government to take the money out of one pocket and put it in the other pocket. In addition, since the agencies are unable to produce the right projects, some of them seem to have nothing to do with "rescue," which some of the government's other institutions have to do with. However, in the event of legal changes and the right, efficient work of agencies, it is an institution that will be of great benefit to the development of the Turkish economy. As a result, despite the transfer of up to $1 billion 495m to development agencies since 2008, it is necessary to open a parliamentary study under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, so that agencies can be discovered and some activities that have gone wrong, without wasting more resources. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 5 April 2012, on the "New Incentivisation Package" announced by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I submit the Constitution's requirements for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Yours truly. [[Adana]] 2) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[Scholarship]] 14) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 24) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Sakarya]] [[Tekirdağ]] 29) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] [[Sinop]] 32) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] The new package of encouragement announced by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on 5 April 2012 is the fourth package of encouragement announced by the AKP government. In 2002, the Advocacy Act 5084 was issued, covering 36 provinces, with the level of economic development in the provinces being considered. Later, in 2005, 13 provinces were added to these cities, and the number of cities encouraged was raised to 49, followed by the addition of Gökceada and Bozcaada to 51. In 2009, the incentive system, which took Turkey as four regions and introduced different rates of incentives, came into effect. However, all these incentive systems that have been implemented in Turkey since 2002 have been wrong and inefficient, but in general they have not been able to compete with Turkish industry, but have caused unfair competition. On 6 April 2012, Economy Minister Zafer Çalayan explained that Turkey had been divided into 6 regions and that its total 61 criteria were used in this study, according to the "Sosyo-Economic Development Sorting," which was held in 2011 with the Ministry of Development. The work, however, was last announced by the State Planning Agency in 2003 and was not published by any more current institution. Therefore, according to the provinces that are the basis of regional incentives, the Sosyo-Economic Development Study has raised questions as to why it was actually done and why it was not shared with the public. In the new incentive package, we can say that the incentive for strategic investments, which differ from earlier incentives, and the incentive for large-scale investments are positive innovations. However, the insurance premium included in the package is also a cost-effective component, such as employer support, insurance premium labour support and income tax block support, and as in previous incentive practices, it leads to unfair competition. In the case of the continuation of economic policies that did not support production, production, and competitiveness, which did not put our own labor force and resources at the center of our production process, the large populations will have to pay the price, just as it was done in Article 5084 or in the incentives in 2009. Therefore, for the final incentive package to be efficient and productive, we think it would be very helpful if the performance measurement of the previous three incentives could lead to a new set of incentives, such as the factors they've given or lost to the economy, and the results they've examined and the results they're going to come out with. In this scope, a parliamentary investigation is required under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a general debate motion I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of recent unrest in Syria, we respectfully supply and demand that a general meeting be opened in accordance with Articles 98 of the Constitution, 101, 102 and 103. 17/4/2012 1) Osman Faruk Logogoğlu [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Amasya]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) Osman Oktay Sokshi [[İstanbul]] 18) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 19) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Bolu]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] 24) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Tunceli]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 32) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 33) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 36) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 37) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been monitoring the violence in Syria, which has been going on for nearly a year, in which we have the longest land border. The principle that Syria's independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and national unity are protected and that the Syrian people live in peace and stability, and the international community must act on that basis. Thus, ending violence should be the primary goal of launching a political process between government and opposition, aimed at normalisation in the country, and helping people in need. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the country of "Yurtta Sulh, jihanda Sulh"; 1) Since it will lead to a new war in our region, we must oppose outside interference in Syria. Such an initiative will not bring peace to Syria, but will lead to more casualties. The war will bring disaster to Turkey and the region. 2) We must view the United Nations Security Council as the sole source of legitimacy for any steps taken by the international community regarding Syria. The function of other formations should be limited to contributing to a joint will in the UN Security Council. 3) In this context, we must welcome the UN Security Council's unanimous decision on 14 April 2012. This resolution, which supports the peace plan of Kofi Annan, the special representative of the UN Secretary General and Arab League for Syria, envisions sending military observers to Syria to oversee the truce. The decision calls on both sides to stop all violence in the country and condemns human rights violations by Syrian authorities and armed opposition groups. 4) We should ask that all elements of the plan be carried out in support of the initiative of Kofi Annan, a special representative of the United Nations Secretary General and the Arab League. 5) We need to believe that any initiative to achieve peace and stability in Syria falls as much responsibility for opposition to the government as it does for peace and stability. Violence is not the answer. At the end of the day, we will need negotiations, dialogue, and compromise again. 6) We need to remind the world that the way out of Syria's crisis must be determined by the free will of the Syrian people. The outside pressures will be interfering with Syria's internal affairs, damaging the right and will of the Syrian people to determine their own future. 7) As a brother and neighbour with close and dense ties to Syria, we need to assess that it is necessary for Turkey to use its weight to bring other relevant forces, especially the Russian Federation and Iran, which have separate influence over its neighbours and the country, in line with its peace and stability goals. Syria is not just Turkey's issue, nor is it Turkey's problem to solve alone. Turkey's Grand National Assembly should invite the world to take steps to stand up for the legitimate expectations of the Syrian people and to encourage peace and reconciliation to meet their demands of freedom, good governance, honorable life, equality and justice. However, the Syrian government and the opposition must first call on them to end violence and to share their country's destiny. Syria's stabilisation and peace of mind is necessary for Turkey's national security, the region's peace and stability. For this issue to be evaluated in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without delay, a general discussion must be held under the Articles of the Constitution, Articles 98, 101, 102, and 103. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda and talks on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 20/11/2013 Wednesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. On 31 October 2013, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan and his friends gave him 1697 rows (1697 rows). "The reasons why the graves of Sheikh Sait Efendi and 46 of his friends who were executed on June 29, 1925 were not delivered to their families," he was advised to take the parliamentary inquiry motion to the Turkish Parliament ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations in Wednesday's 20/11/2013. In favor of the proposal, Hakkari MP Adil Zozani... Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0044par0516	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the proposal of Sheikh Sait Efendi and 46 friends of Bediuz Zayz Zayez Saidi Kurdi, Seyit Riza, Şemdinlıli Seyit Abdulkadir and his son Seyit Muhammad, Dr. Fuat and Erbilli Sheikh Esat, who were executed on June 29, 1925, demanding that the burial places of Eshat Efendi. I salute you all. I'd like to start with Seyit Reza. Seyit Reza, who was tried and executed by a military court in Elazığ district on November 15, 1937, turned to the face of Minister of Interior Ihsan Sabri Çalingil, and opened a wound in our hearts from that day forward, and it has not been closed yet. These words have been written in history, and these words have been written in history, and we expect him to make amends to this day. You know, when Seyit Reza was executed, according to the existing laws of that period, he shouldn't have been executed for being too old. Within a day, his son, who had been reduced to age, was put on death row with him, and was brought up to death row because he was underage. Seyit Reza, I have another Ihsan Sabri Çağalangıne $40 at the execution table, and an hour at the same time. Give these to my son. He said so. But he doesn't know that his son will be executed before his eyes. Syed Reza kicked the gallows with this pain. And before he kicked the table of execution, he said something to us that would be a combat guide. Once again, I want to repeat that saying: "We have not been able to deal with your tricks, let this be a lesson to us, but we have not knelt down in front of you, and let this be a problem for you. We have not forgotten this promise of Seyit Reza. We will continue to cause this trouble to the people of Seyit Reza. Today, we want the tomb place of Seyit Reza to be revealed, we demand it, we desire the assembly to support it. Another important historical figure, Sheikh Sait, was executed on June 29, 1925 in Diyarbakır. The same day was decided, on the evening of the same day, the Grand National Assembly met, approved the court ruling, and on the night of June 29th, Sheikh Sait was put on death row with 46 of his companions. I'd like to discuss a sentence or two of Sheikh Sait. Sheikh Sait, unfortunately, Turkey is defined as a symbol of public regression as a person who wants to establish a caliphate state in the region. I'd like to remind you that in Sheikh Sait's criminal file, there was also opposition to the persecution against Armenians and other non-Muslims, which was placed in her criminal file because she said no, so sheikh Sait was put on death row. What was another important factor? At Erzurum Congress, the Sivas Congress was the rebellion launched by Sheikh Sait, when Ataturk (Ataturk) and those with him failed to keep their promises to the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0045par0523	What promise?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0044par0524	Upon failing to keep the promises made in 1921, Sheikh Sait attempted to revolt due to the imposition of the monotheistic Constitution of 1924, the Fascist Constitution. You took him to the execution, but his memory lives in the bosom of the Kurdish people. We're going to build his statue in a square in Diyarbakir, which is what we owe. We owe it to ourselves to have the statue of Sheikh Sait put up in Diyarbakir, and we will do so. Another important person, Sadi Saidi Kurdi.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0046par0527	Nursi or Kurdi? It's called 'Nursi.'
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0044par0528	You know very well what happened to him. During his lifetime, Saidi Kurdi fought for the brotherhood of the peoples of Anatolia and Mesopotamia, fighting for the language and history of the Kurdish people. Unfortunately, his work was falsified, and he was asked to be made a tool used against the Kurdish people. However, this page of history is also closing. Halulurrahman was buried on March 23, 1960, but on July 27, the coupters destroyed his tomb on July 12, 1960, and took his body to an unknown place. I want to explain that unknown place now. The claim is that the tomb of Bediz Zaman Saidi Kurdi is in Barla district of Isparta, and is in Barla district of Isparta. One claim is that Saidi Kurdi's tomb was buried somewhere in the city of Isparta, in the city cemetery, under the name Hüvel Baki. The birth date and death of Hüvel Baki is an unknown tomb in Isparta City Cemetery, which we want to be explained. We demand that these historical figures be exhumed and returned to their own people. We're in the process of extraditing the people taken from the Kurdish people, the people of the Kurdish people. There's no need to put up too much of a fight in front of this anymore. Hopes of a solution that has been well-resolved and self-responsive with the recent democratic solution and peace process will only then be crowned if the state apologizes to the Kurdish people because of these incompatible practices against the Kurdish people. That's what we believe. That's how the prisons will be empty. When we bring about this societal legitimacy and peace, social legitimacy will be at stake. We have to do this without delay. I'd like to point out that every day at this point, Turkey is against it, time is against Turkey, and we're offering it openly. We're saying we should solve this social peace through halalization, we're saying we should do it. Return the people taken from the Kurdish people to the Kurdish people, extradite the rights of the Kurdish people, return the displaced persons to the Kurdish people. Let today be an occasion. I hope you'll vote positively for the motion we've made, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0047par0533	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Against him, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0048par0537	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. There is a human side to what BDP has proposed, and there is a political and social side to it. They're so intertwined. The human thing is, of course, we all have our roles in the recent tragedies that have occurred in history. What's left of people who have lost their lives one way or the other, it's very common to give to their families, and it's the nature of humanity. That's the human side, and the political will, of course, will appreciate and fulfill this quality of demand. Do we need a council search for that? I don't think so. In many steps, we find that there is no Clave research. When TRT 6 opened, for example, there was no parliamentary investigation. For a number of steps to take, his requirement and adequate requirement is not to investigate the House. On the political and social side, our history is a history of love and hate. The fact that we're already connected to history, that we're fighting over history, that we're in this love and hate relationship that we're looking at from the past. We know how different our society feels about the people that the speaker is talking about. For example -- he himself expressed -- the rebellion of Sheikh Sait, in 1925, that caused the Takir-i Szun, or the events that took place there, is such a complicated matter that even finding the appropriate words is a complex matter in the sense that a person feels like he's walking on a land of mines. With one side of Sheikh Sait, Turkey's republic, here it is, the nation state, as an objection to the behavior of the sovereign will on Islamic sensitivities; according to another comment, the southern border is not yet drawn, it has a background related to the British. It's all been talked about, discussed. Of course, what is historical truth? It's not our job, and the historians can't handle it. I don't find it very right to bring the historical side to today's agenda, because in a country that's having difficulty dealing with certain tragedies that have happened more recently, let's take care of the problems of seventy-five years ago. I think it's true, it's logical, and it's not a contributing approach to this environment of peace and resolution that Turkey is walking on. There's a Greek poet named Ritsos, who says: "All the trouble we've been through has made us delusional. " In fact, there has been a lot of trouble for everyone in this land. Everyone, the Kurds, the Turks, the people who live in this country, the people who live in the Balkans... the last century has really been a tragic century for us. That made us all delusional. In what sense? When someone talks about something, when they talk about something, when they make a request, I wonder what ghost is behind it, what is there really to be done here? Basically, when I say the political and social dimension of the mentioned issue, I mean these kinds of ghosts in your background. It may not be possible for us to come up with a common understanding of history, but I don't think it's the right approach to present a subject that historians can't solve in an environment where even other historical interpretations of history have just been released, such a context that politics can handle. BDP is supporting the solution process on one side, very true. We see these explanations, we're doing a study together, but I think there's a paradox where they think about it: life is the brother of day and night, and life is the brother of death, and BDP is definitely the brother of the problems that give birth to it. There was no BDP before 90. Turkey has arrived in the 90s, and the current tragic situation of the Kurdish issue has uncovered the party, the political organisation BDP. Now, the BDP has a vital connection to the self-existing issues in a symbiotic bond. Thus, the end of the solution process means the end of the life of the existing language, the current approach, the existing relationship form, the life of the BDP. So BDP is in a position like this -- I'm telling you my wings -- like in Nasreddin Hoxha's joke, on the branch that creates the problem. To contribute to that problem, to cut the branch, to solve the problem, to shoot the saw from one side, but to do it back and forth, and if this tree is cut down, I will also fall down. So as the language evolves from one side to the solution -- because I know, yes, there's a mind within BDP, which demands that the problem be solved -- but on the other hand, as an organism, as a party, as a political delegation, it continues to back up a language that will sustain its vital ties with that problem. It's going in and out between these two.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0049par0545	Mr. President, did he promise to run a BDP test?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0048par0546	Just a moment ago, when the speaker was discussing the matter of Sheikh Sait, he said, "We're going to build the statue of Sheikh Sait. We're going to build it in Diyarbakir square." In fact, even this attitude, this challenging attitude is a fight, a challenge. Is it not understood that a rematching feeling was also revealed when the statue was erected? Of course it's understandable. Is it possible that we're here to teach someone a lesson, with that challenging attitude, while we're covering some scars from the past? With such a historical outlook, can we build the future in the direction of peace and democracy? We can't. We have to do this the usual way. This challenging attitude is not against a ghost, but against that social and political confusion in Turkey, where it is challenging to people who make different comments about the past. This does not serve democracy or the process of peace and resolution. Nietzsche has a saying: "Great ideas come with wings of pigeons, not with battle drums and not with drums." Of course, the reputations must be restored, and of course, steps must be taken to bring out the sufferings of history, to repair the human side, but if we do that in a state of bravery, a challenge, an accounting, we will not have served this community. There is a French writer named Exupéry. A book he wrote for minors, but he also wrote for elders. The little Prince, our Little Prince, travels in various travels and worlds. In one of the worlds he goes to, there is one master, one king, sitting on his throne. His world is constantly spinning around the sun, rising and setting at every minute. His Majesty also strikes his staff at sunrise, means the rising sun. He strikes his staff again as it sets, says the setting sun. The Little Prince says: "Even though you do not give such orders, the sun will rise and set. " Your Majesty laughs, and a wise will sees what is possible and gives his orders in that direction. " And I say to BDP: As a will of power relations, seeing what is possible as a part of Turkey, in a language that contributes to peace and democracy, with an approach, not in such a challenging way, but in a soft way, to fix things. Otherwise, a hurtful language, that challenging language, carries past injustices, scars, only to the future. Our concern is that we can repair the past as we walk in the direction of peace and democracy while we repair the future. If we can build the future like this, I assure you, we will create a social climate where we can compensate for the past, the various human traumas, the disappointments of those tragedies. That is the attitude of AK PARTY. Hopefully, other political delegations will support efforts in this direction. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0050par0553	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0051par0554	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0050par0555	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0051par0556	Mr. orator made a speech on our party policies and on the axis of giving us advice, and expressed my challenge, as if I had said the words I hadn't said. I'd like to respond to this taunt.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0050par0557	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0051par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bostanci, ten minutes is a long time without a word. Ask for the minutes, you've had to pronounce the name of our party 10 times, you said peace and democracy. Which basically means that our accuracy is correcting your wrong course. Please, instead of giving us advice, return to yourself, consider your own policies, and say it's time to put a stop to my centuries-old mechanism against this people. You want to do something? Do it. An apology from the Kurdish people is the key to the problem. We tell the prince's tale a lot, and we have plenty of time to read it, but if you go on like this, you'll tell more prince stories here. We have passed through the circle of fire, we have been tested by death, and we, Sheikh Sait, Seyit Reza, Beddizüzüstü Saidi Kurdi, Sheikh Ubedıllah, Qazi Mohammadin, Mele Mustafa Barzani, and many others of the leaders of our struggle, have come to this day, imbuing our brains. Please and please see what this tradition of fighting is capable of that you despise and reason. We don't challenge, we express the pain in our heart, we express it, we shout it. We'd like you to let the people in your constituency hear... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let him hear in Istanbul, and let him hear in Yozgat. That's what we do. Stop trying to reason with yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0052par0568	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0053par0569	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0052par0570	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0053par0571	Now, our congressman friend, of course, has made a commitment to personal bullying. There have also been accusations involving our group, so I'd like to take a stand on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0052par0572	I mean, what did the accuser say?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0053par0573	So, there were talks that implied that we were fed on the Kurdish issue because of a symbiotic relationship and that we didn't want the problem solved.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0052par0574	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0053par0576	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the speech that Mr. Hati made here, in a way, was very important because he is now the President of the Solution Commission, and we want to say that we interpret the conversation here as very unfortunate because we believe that the Kurdish issue will not be resolved until a hundred years of confrontation has been made. Facing the facts may be painful, the truth may hurt you, but it is important that our friend at the very beginning understands that you cannot solve a 100 - year - old issue without facing these facts. Now, here we have a proposal, which, in a human sense, you're saying that this motion is reasonable and affordable, so why don't you do what you have to do? There is no need to establish the research commission. Your statement is not sincere because you have been in power for twelve years, political will will will do what is necessary. The explanation is nothing but to deceive the public. For 12 years, political will has already been in the hands of the AKP government. Is it as human as it is in this place, to be given to the people of Sheikh Sait, Pir Seyit Reza, and the bodies of Bediuzcence, and to their family? You're still standing at a point where even this student doesn't respond. Oh, I'm sorry about what BDP has to do, but we don't determine what we're going to talk about, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, with the teachings we get from our people. The main challenge is the mindset of Heikh Sait Efendi, who founded taverns in Diyarbakır Square, and played open films, and built cinemas over the centuries. If we have to challenge that mentality, we'll do it as Kurdish people, and we'll keep the memory of Sheikh Sait Efendi in Diyarbakir, Amed. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0054par0583	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0586	Dear friends, the Latins call it veritas vos liberabit. The truth liberates. But can people lift that freedom? It does not necessarily mean that anyone who speaks of the truth will face the truth. The truth is heavy, giving birth to problems and responsibilities for all. I mentioned problems with Turkey's recent history. You're part of Turkey, you know how to pronounce these things. Look, I talked about the differences in social perception of Sheikh Sait. One of them is Ocalan. If you read the Imralı transcripts, Ataturk would bring democracy, but Sheikh Sait cooperated with the British, rebelled, didn't bring it.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0056par0588	No, it's not like that!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0589	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0056par0590	No, dear, it's not like that!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0591	Look... look...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0057par0592	Bring in the transcripts...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0593	Look, read...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0058par0594	Bring it in, what's the report? There's no such thing!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0057par0595	When you say what you've read, you'll read it ten times and comment on it once!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0596	I'll tell you what... I mean, he said, he said, it's being debated, there's people saying that. The point is, what do we want to bring to Turkey? Do we want to bring back a fight? When we're trying to see past accounts, do we want to open new accounts for the future? I've voiced a criticism of this challenger attitude. We don't need someone else's mind. It doesn't make sense. We need your mind. Speak up, say words of reason here, we'll listen. Just say the word and talk.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0059par0599	So the word is not a word of reason.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0600	Why is Parliament here? To blow each other's minds, right? What's with all the pride and pride and pride? Take it, brother, take it!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0059par0601	So the word is not a word of reason.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0602	I'm open to whoever's here to give us some wisdom, some wise words. Please, talk like that.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0060par0604	Degrading is not the same as giving advice.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0055par0605	It's not about honor and pride. Where are we going to partner up? It may not be sensitive, but at least let's get together, let's be rational. Let's settle the issues of Turkey in such a line. Let's trust each other's minds in that sense. In this direction, let's say that the sensitivity that supports the mind, let's say, is for the creation of that common climate of peace. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0061par0608	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0062par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0063par0610	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0061par0611	If you'll excuse me, sir, we'll listen.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0062par0612	...The General Board has been misinformed. I'd like to express something in terms of getting him on the record.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0061par0613	Yes, about what?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0062par0616	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Ocalan has made a statement that Mr. Sheikh Sait is an English collaborator. That's a completely wrong assessment. There's no such statement in any of the interview reports. What Mr. Ocalan has stated is that the resistance movement led by Master Sheikh Sait speaks of a provocation about the firing of the first bullet in Piran. Mr. Ocalan clearly states the location of Heikh Sait Efendi in the history of the Kurdish people. Since I was in the last meeting with him, he is now offering a democratic Islamic conference to free Islam from its means of ruling. He recommends that this democratic Islamic conference be carried out in accordance with the spirit of the struggle of Sheikh Sait Efendi. I'd like these to go on the record.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0061par0617	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0064par0618	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about Sheikh Sait. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. I want to see Sheikh Sait and Seyit Reza put together a medal against the Russian army in 1925.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0065par0625	In favor of the proposal, Tunceli MP Hüseyin Aygün.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0066par0627	Thank you. Of course, history is hard to argue with. We see the difficulties of the history debate once again, both as a false claim by Joseph Halaçogoglu that Seyit Reza was awarded a medal, and as a reminder of the execution in Elazığ district of the Wheat Square on the last day of November 15th. I made a commitment in favor of the motion because there are actually two commissions called the Commission for Solutions and the Commission for Education, which has been working for a while. They're moving very quietly because activities in both commissions don't move forward with the agendas that are really concerned about solving these issues, opening the way for matters, which are really public, and that society can take an interest in them. For example, there's been a School Commission in the House for two years. This Commission has been put to sleep. About a year and a half ago, he was going to visit the Tunceli, Erzincan, and the surrounding areas and meet with the victims who petitioned there, but no visits have been made in a year and a half. It's just that in these discussions, we've come to the line of "Sunceli" to call it "Senseli." So if we take it from seventy-seven, seventy-eight years later, or from 1923, the point that we arrived 90 years later could be described as a length of barley. Seventy-seven years have passed since the execution of Seyit Rezas, eighty-nine years since the execution of Sheikh Sait. Fifty-three years since the loss of the tomb of Saidi Nursi, described as the wonder of times. Thirty-five years ago, there was a brutal killing, an ethnic act of hatred, and a crime against humanity. Thirty-five years later, a young lawyer worried and followed it from Istanbul, petitioned Maraş Municipality in June. He asked about the graves of Bektas Bozkurt and Cemal Bayır, who had been given power of attorney, because the families do not know where these two innocent people were buried. In response to the answer he sent to the government's municipality of Maraş Seyit Sönmez (born 13 June 2013), the identity information was not recorded, so we cannot respond to any of the appeals you have made to our director for the funerals of individuals, and we do not know where they are. So not eighty-nine years ago, but just recently, we have an official document on Marashan, whose suffering is very fresh, and the matter of lost graves is not only about Seyit Reza, his friends, Sheikh Saitir, the other motion, but also about Maras. From here, let's direct the projector to the near events, let's forget the old events. There'll be an approach. Speaking on behalf of the AKP, Naci Bostancı, in fact the most refined form of this view, has signalled that the motion would be rejected a little later by saying, "Let the historians handle these issues, how will politics solve this?" Now, I'll tell you something about Seyit Rezas: I'll tell Yusef Halaçoglu first. Seyit Reza is not from the Russian army, but from the Ottoman army as commander of the western group of East and West Dersim troops created in 1916 against the Russian progress. I think that's what my teacher meant, he slipped his tongue. There's no such thing as a medal from the Russian army. In fact, he was given a document that said he was exempt from military procedure. It's also in the archives; my teacher is a historian, he knows it well. So, let's let them cooperate with the Russian army, against the progress of the Russian army, against Erzincan and Erzurum, and to Erzurum's region, known as the Horum Düzüku. For example, these militias chased the Russians along with the Ottoman army. Later, he lived in Erzincan for two years and was a member of the county board. In fact, it is so well-known in the region that until the 1970s, the battle of the Dersim militia with the Russians was played as a theatre at the ceremony of the liberation of the Plumur. These ceremonies have been removed. Seyit Reza, for example, goes to Erzincan, for example, when the action moves too far, when it surrounds itself, when its village is bombed and innocent people die, it's very interesting. According to local people's narratives there: "I have saved Erzincan, and Erzincan, from the Russians, will surely take care of me, and save us." When the governor goes to the meeting and sends him to Elazığ, when those two months of unjust judgments begin, he says in Zazaca: "A man saves a great land, but a country doesn't succeed in saving a man. In that way, I feel the need to correct the information that my teacher has given me. It's not cooperation with the Russians, on the contrary, it's a state defense against them, and it's documented. There are some errors in the proposal, in order to correct them, and for the record, to inform our people: Seyit Reza and his friends' burial places are being said to be in two places; it is said that he may be at the railway station at the centre of Elazığ, in the village of Holfenk, in the centre of Elazığ. There's also a lawsuit against Seyit Rezas, which has been filed by your own people in 2006, and it's still been in the Court for seven years. The State Department of Defense and the Ministry of Interior were sued in 2006, with no information, no documents in the archives. He's waiting to be examined at the D.A.'s office right now. Why shouldn't historians have jobs, politicians have jobs? If parliament does not resolve this issue -- but I think it is inadequate, as is the Commission for Solutions and Class Commission -- and I don't think it's through artificial commissions to reduce the tension of society -- if politics won't intervene, how will the three judges in Ankara, the three judges in Elazig, the judges in the court, resolve this issue? The Ministry of National Defense does not send documents to the court, the Interior Ministry does not send documents to the court, MIT does not send documents to the court, the General Staff, I'm sure, does not send a single page about the archive he has to the Elazığ Administration Court. How are we going to move these institutions, if the TBM doesn't confiscate it? I think we should discuss that, too. The Syed Reza debate and the Sheikh Sait incident, again, I came with another document on the Saidi Nursi incident. Now, the approach to this date is really problematic, and everyone is defending their victim's rights, and it's a general tendency not to look at someone else's pain. I brought a receipt. In our history, there have been many receipts since the Ottomans. You know, during the Abdulhamit period, the Star Palace was a paper trail. This receipt was issued on March 23, 1955, regarding Saidi Nursi. The government that regulates it is the government of Adnan Menderes. Saidi Nursi has been branded and said to be a sneaky and cunning person, who is working secretly to establish a state of religion, to conduct Kurdish activities. If we don't look toward the suffering of Seyit Reza, we won't look toward the lost tomb of Saidi Nursi. If we side with Syed Reza, if we become polar, we will ignore the other sufferings, I think. In this regard, I support this right and legitimate motion that will be rejected by AKP votes in the upcoming vote. Regarding Seyit Reza, I demand that the suffering of those living in the area be heard. Her living grandchildren, the people from that family, scattered all over Turkey. If the Clave finds these graves, delivers the missing bodies to the families, I think it'll be respectable, but I think it'll be a matter of concealment, denial, disregard, and if it continues, only 550 more MPs will be injured. I salute you all. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0067par0641	Thank you, Mr. Aygun.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0642	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0067par0643	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0644	There's been some sort of taunting, so I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0067par0645	That your statement was wrong.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0646	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0067par0647	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0651	Mr. President, dear friends, there's nothing wrong with me here. I'm not telling you what I said about Sheikh Sait or Seyit Reza, nor what I saw from a document; I'm telling you what I personally saw from the Russian video camera, which was filmed by the Russians. Now, there are no medals for Seyit Reza, and Sheikh Sait, along with Seyit Reza, is being decorated in the Russian army. I saw the medal ceremony, that's what I'm saying. I'll bring it to you, and I'll show it to you, so it's not a secret. Because the Russians, in the Eastern Anatolian region, in many years since World War II...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0069par0653	They gave you a medal because you fought us well?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0654	Sir?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0069par0655	He got a medal for fighting us well?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0656	No, I don't think they'll give you a medal for that. You know, they usually get a medal for pride because they're on their side.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0070par0657	No Jewish bravery prizes!
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0068par0658	So there's no need to pull here or here now. I'm telling you something, I'm passing on something that's been filmed in person. You won't accept it, it's your business, but as a historian, I didn't say it by doing politics here; I said it so that one would enter into the transcripts. I repeat, in the film made by the Russians, the Russian army stands ready, both side by side. Then, they show up with a ceremony, and directly, sheik Sait is awarded a medal. I'm not saying that she hangs out with Reza. Look, I'm just saying next to her. That's the kind of thing that happens when we're together. Now, there's a methodology of history to evaluate certain events, and it's evaluated accordingly. The documents you have are usually from the biography of the Ottoman State, which was written recently about the entire state body. It's about everyone; it can't be called a dissipation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0071par0662	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0072par0663	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0071par0664	What did you want to say, Mr. Bostanci?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0072par0665	Now, sir, we have the wrong perception of the role of politics, against the fact that these things should be the work of politics...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0071par0666	So, why don't you explain yourself and we'll call it quits? Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0072par0669	Thank you. The Resolving Commission is doing a good job. Huseyin Bey also worked with him primarily as a terrorist subcommittee, and we had a very efficient collaboration, and I saw his human approach. In fact, with such approaches, we can solve these problems. I suppose Mr. Hussein didn't see a different attitude than I did when he was looking at these issues. The job of politics isn't to put social perception of past events ahead of this society; that's what I'm saying. If politics is going to do everything, then politics is a totalitarian task that we understand. Politics will be the future, it will be the history, it will smooth out the social environment, it will judge and consume all kinds of issues. There's no such thing. The job of politics is to create a social climate. Otherwise, people will say very different things about history. Look, even here, let's open it up a little bit more, what's to be said, what's to be said. There's already an answer, it's written down; is there any point in renegotiating it? Each generation tells its own history, says Michel Foucault. That's right. The historians say: Look at the conditions of the past, interpret it that way. It's not very possible to do that. We too have to establish a Turkey where future generations will be fair, merciful, honest while considering past history. That's the job of politics; otherwise, without such a Turkey being built, there's still talks with such defiant attitudes, not to correct history when such a Turkey is not built. History is the history of the victors, it's true, but the victims, the oppressed, the shadow of history, must be revealed. And that's what we, in fact, are all of us, and for that, we need to work together and cooperate. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0073par0675	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0074par0676	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0073par0677	Mr. Baluken, I didn't see any bullying about this, but what do you have to say?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0074par0678	No, no, it's not about that. About what Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu had just expressed, I would like to state a statement in order to get him on the record.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0073par0679	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0074par0682	Now, Mr. Halaçoglu, of course, with his scientific identity, with his identity as a historian, made a statement there, but he did not present any scientific data on the incident he had proposed there. We know that positive science is a field that feeds on knowledge, document, data, and it puts that responsibility on the scientist. It's just that I've seen such a vision. Above all, it doesn't fit the scientist's objective, objective interpretation. I want to express it.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0075par0683	I'll show you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0074par0684	Another issue is that there is a logic error: Sheikh Sait Efendi and Pir Seyit Reza are historical figures who have fought for freedom in different periods of time, but together, in different parts of the struggle, they do not have a position where they have a position where they've been in a different position with the law of camaraderie. There's a serious lack of historical information there. During the time of the battle of Sheikh Sait Efendi, Syed Reza fought at another centre, and the Russian army brought together the commander who carried out these two struggles, and his perception is already far from logical. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0076par0686	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0077par0687	Mr. President, can I fix this?
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0076par0688	We can't go into this history debate and into time.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0077par0689	Okay, just from my position, for the record... Now, I'll show him.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0076par0691	You present him.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0077par0692	I'll show him, he'll be embarrassed.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0076par0693	I don't know about that, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0078par0694	Show us, we're here, we're open. Bring it in, bring it in now.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0077par0695	Both together.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0078par0696	It doesn't happen once, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0077par0697	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0078par0698	Seyit Rezat and Sheikh Sait are in the same place! There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0079par0702	Against you, Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0080par0705	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the BDP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Yes, today, we have witnessed Naci Bostancı, our dear teacher, who is really exemplary and rereading, reading from the transcripts, and learning something that needs to be learned. Yes, a human process may be justified in a human process, but as of today, what we're doing, or nothing has ever been done, you have to show it. So 10 years, 11 years ago, you have to figure out where we're from in a state of emergency. Thus, we can do the desired result with different processes, which are required to be carried out by the motion to investigate. Our agenda is clear, and I'm happy to continue the negotiations on this agenda, and I'd like to welcome the General Assembly on this occasion. I'd like to point out once again that we're against the proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0081par0712	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. I'd like you to vote...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0082par0714	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit01spe0081par0715	I'll call the number of decisions I need, sir. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit02spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit03spe0081par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, the second vote of the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. And since the third vote didn't have enough votes...
tbmm-2013-11-20sit03spe0083par0005	We're here, there's a number.
tbmm-2013-11-20sit03spe0081par0006	...to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to meet with the laws and proposals of the law, on Thursday (November 21st, 2013), according to the decision taken, 14th. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
