tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the Third Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I wish you the best of luck as a Tripolian in the UEFA European League. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Siirt MP Osman Küren, who asked for word on behalf of World Teachers' Day. Congressmans, there's a hum in the General Assembly. We'd appreciate it if you'd be sensitive about this. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0002par0020	Mr. President, my esteemed congressman friends, before I begin my speech, I salute you with my deepest respect. As you know, I have made a promise on the occasion of World Teacher's Day, which will be celebrated on October 5th. As we celebrate the Teacher's Day of Teachers' Day on this occasion, in the early days of the new year of life, I wish our Parliament to do good deeds for our nation, for our country, and for all mankind, and to make good decisions in this way. My esteemed friends, a teacher is not just a person who has a profession of teaching knowledge, an art, a technique.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0003par0023	Mr. Orator, wait a minute... Friends, members of lawmakers, please, we beg of you, we cannot understand what the speaker is saying, so if we can stop humming, we can continue our work more efficiently. Here you go, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you. The teacher, on one hand, is a mother, a father, a counselor who can respond to the expectations of the students, a model person who can be modeled, and also a leader who can be imitated, most importantly. As a historian, I can clearly say that there have been leaders without leadership in history, but no leader has ever been without a teacher. The founder of Turkey's Republic of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Muallims), the republic wants your opinion to be free, conscience free, and knowledge free. The word points to the importance of teachers in society's life. However, despite the vital importance and position of teachers and the formation of our republic and the formation of our republic to this day, in the formation of society and in the development of the country, they have been expected to serve in all the sacrifices they are expected to make, the idea is free, the conscience is free, the ability to raise free, the wisdom is not provided, and even some constraints have been provided...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0005par0029	Mr. President, we can't hear, we can't hear.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0006par0030	Congressmans, this is the 3rd time I've said it. Please, let's stop humming, let's not have a standing congressman, the speaker continues.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0005par0032	Be respectful of our friend.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0006par0033	Your time will continue where it left off, Mr. Speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0007par0035	I'm not going to get into things so you don't take up too much of your time. As far as we're concerned today, we're still in the first place, despite all our efforts, according to OECD.'s 2013 reports. As the EC PARTY government, we took a very important step towards closing this gap in September with around 40,000 teachers. Hopefully, we'll try to cover the teacher's gap with the next teacher's purchases. The number of teachers in our country will be reasonable, as in the countries ahead. As it is known, the teachers were the only ones who lost their lives during the previous collective agreement. In this framework, we decided to pay $ 75+75 to compensate for the loss of our teachers. We've provided additional classes for administrators who work in double-educated schools for two hours a week. We've arranged for two hours of additional tuition to be paid to teachers of the other knitting and common educational institutions, who are assigned to teach at boarding and boarding schools. We've increased the teaching year's prep grant to $110. AS AK PARTY, when we came to power, there were villages without electricity and schools and teachers in those villages, and we took electricity, computers, and the Internet to the remotest villages so that teachers and students could benefit from the benefits of technology. We've done a lot of things that haven't been done. Is that enough? There's a fashion term for that: it's not enough, but yes. In the remotest mountain villages where even the state couldn't go, where no service could be taken, there's also service today, thank God, and teachers. However, our teachers still have many problems. The most important one is the housing problem. We need to figure this out. Teachers also need to train themselves, follow science and technology, and study. In order to do so, they need to be compensated financially. Without the extra payment, the teacher will want to work in a place with better conditions, counting the days like a soldier waiting for an advance. This is the main reason why the provinces in Southeast Anatolia and Eastern Anatolia, where I am a member of the parliament, are ranked at the latest in the list of cities that send students to the university. If we can pull this off, we'll be in the way of the abyss at the level of development between the regions. However, as our Prime Minister explained, such materials as the main language and the headscarf in the democratic opening package are the most important developments in this area to eliminate obstacles to education and education. As I end my words, I celebrate the October 5th Day of Teachers of the World of our teachers who made our future and our lives meaningful and shaped our lives.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit01spe0008par0043	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Congressmans, there's a problem with sound, so we'll take a ten-minute recess. Tech guys are gonna try to fix the sound problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0008par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's Third Union of the Grand National Assembly. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes (Ihsan Özkes), who asked for a speech on behalf of Mosques and Religious Officers Week. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ozkes is the first person to ask me to speak in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0009par0008	Mr. President, congratulations on your new assignment. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for the week of the mosques and the clergy. I salute you all. As the party that establishes the religion, we respect the religious institution and the clergy. We believe that dialogue can only maintain its dignity by being above politics. As a retired mufti, where mosque week is celebrated these days, I have proposed a law on legalisation of the mosques in order to prevent a major injustice and inequality. For the establishment of social peace, the cemevs need to gain legal status immediately. The religious budget, which they call "Haram," which includes the taxes of the Alekis, will be kept out of the legal status of the Cemebs. It's the one that gathers the mosque, the one that puts it together. The mosques are places that do not divide, and do not divide, and embrace God, and the prophet, and the book, and all men, and all men. None of God's servants can be cast out in what we call the houses of God, and no sense of hatred, of vengeance, or of hatred can grow here. The mosques should not cease to be the places where the will of God is sought and become the place to please the powerful, not become the propaganda centers of power. Polarizing the people through mosques is not in harmony with the meaning of the mosque. I am an officer of the religion, and I fear God, and I cannot lie. As if to send a priest into exile, fear not God, but power. How can it be explained by religion, diabetes, and conscience to drive a religious official 60km away with a kidney removed and another kidney not fully functioning and his wife suffering from leukemia? I've been asked by the ministry to ask the relevant ministry for the transfer of mufti to the mufti of Trabzon, which he claimed to be banished because of the segregation of a minister from the administration of the province. He said, "What have I done, have I taken bribes?" The head of Afyonkarahisar province announced that he had personally requested the transfer of his name, name and name to his provinces, and that he had recently met with the minister and that he had been waiting for this appointment, and four months later this mufti was assigned to Afyonkarahisar. The Lord God of the Book says, "Give your trusts to the people of the house." Our dishonest and hypocritical Muslims, their tenders, authorities and positions, have been banished to the near land and to the hypocrites' presence, despite their right to defend the truth, the Corrum Middleköy Muftü, his wife, and three other children who have studied in the district of Lacin and three other places. Religious officials must be appointed according to their rights and driver's licenses. Torpil, nepotism, and injustice are incompatible with an institution called the Diabetes. The injustices of Hajj and 'Umrah and their extracurricular duties must be removed. Politicians should keep their hands off the clergy. While government officials take two days a week off, religious officials who serve in mosques take a day off. I've offered the law on the fact that once a week, when the clergy work overtime, it reflects on the wages of a day. Again, il mufti assistants, borough muftüs and the district are not covered by social positions, with half the post-retired salaries of the district preachers falling from their post-retirment pensions.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0010par0021	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0009par0022	I'm also waiting for the opinion of the law proposals I've made on these and other issues. In the name of the Mosques and the Churchmen's Week, I pray to God the Most High for mercy to the clergy who are on their way to eternity. I wish all religious officials, who are born on all living things like the sun, who embrace everyone like the Lord, good health and good health. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0011par0026	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır (born October 3rd) on behalf of Turkish World Day. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0012par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I wish the year of the third legislature to bring peace to our country, to our nation, to our parliament, to our political party groups, and to you, my dear fellow lawmakers, and to give us the opportunity and opportunity to do what our nation expects of us to do. At this time, as lawmakers, I hope that we will do self-restraints in the responsibility of our oath to understand each other, to understand each other, to be open to dialogue, tolerant, compromiser, and to help resolve problems, but certainly to do so in front of the Turkish nation under Article 81. Dear MPs, today is October 3rd, the founding anniversary of the Council of State Presidents of the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries Co-operation. Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyztan, founding member of Turkey; Turkmenistan joined in observer status and was briefly referred to as the Turkish Council on 3 October 2009 by the Nahcivan Agreement, and each year they set 3 October as Turkish-speaking Country Business Association Day, short for World Turk Day and celebrate. I care deeply about the established Turkish Council, and I sincerely celebrate Earth's Turkish Day. Dear MPs, the third summit meeting of the Turkish Council was held on 15 August 16 August in the city of Gabele, Azerbaijan, and hosted by Mr. Azerbaijan President Aliyev. Turkey, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan heads of state and Turkmenistan Deputy Prime Minister attended the meeting. Mr. President Abdullah Gul said some very valuable and important things to me in his speech at the opening session of the meeting. The values that make us members of the same nation today are not just our common language, our common religion, our common history, our common culture, or our homeland, but our desire to build together a bright future. The Turkish world is the world's 13th largest global power, with a total of 4.8 million square kilometers of facial measurement, in the world's 7th-sized, 9th place with a population of 140 million people, and $1.5 trillion in revenues. I deeply care and celebrate the desire and zeal of the historic Silk Road to be revived. Dear MPs, the Turkish world is one nation, our reality and our greatness with the understanding of six states. Turkey is the gateway to the global world of this size, Ankara. That is our claim that the 21st century would be the Turkish century when the global economic center of gravity shifted from Atlantic to Asia Pacific. Mr. State Gardener's proposal to look at the world from the vision of the capital city of Ankara geopolitics is very important and very valuable in this sense. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish Council has been very accurate in this sense and I believe it will do a great deal of good. Dear lawmakers, Turkish, Turkish nation, Turkish world is a reality that the whole world accepts and values, although it is tried to be separated by ethnic and sectarian origins, even though it is accused of the fact that the truth of democratisation packages is being imposed on the basis of ethnic and sects. This reality is very clear in the President's speech. Dear MPs, this nation is our nation. It's a vast historical reality that we've created in thousands of years, which has flown from the imbibe of time to the present. If you remove the Turks from history, what remains? Therefore, Earth's Turkish Day is an important and valuable decision, and I'm celebrating it again. Dear lawmakers, I hope you will do well in this year of life, and I hope we will, and I wish you well again. Dear lawmakers, I have handed over to Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu as deputy chairman of the MHP group that I have been trying to do for nearly eight years. Thank you very much, Mr. President, who entrusted me with this honorable mission, to my fellow members of my group, who have supported me. I'm also asking for the blessing of the friends I've broken and the ones I've broken during this mission. First of all, I wish the President and Mr. President the best of luck with his new assignment, including the members of the group. Congratulations, Mr. President, I'd like to say that you look very good on this bench. I've watched him use his word as a sign of command yesterday, as a lady's courtesy, and I believe he'll make valuable contributions here. I salute you all, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0013par0044	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Also, I'm so glad you said the words for me, thank you very much. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In response to the invitation of the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China's State Commission, the decision taken at a meeting with the political party group MPs on September 6, 2013, at the head of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's official visit to the People's Republic of China, a delegation consisting of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Parliament for Foreign Affairs, is submitted to the information of the 11th Council of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, and on the basis of the International Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The decision of the delegation chaired by Mr. Volcano Bozır, head of the Turkish National Assembly's Foreign Affairs Commission, was issued on 4/8/2013 at the meeting held on 4/3/1990 in the Parliamentary Common Foreign and Security Policy (ODGP) and on their participation in the Joint Security and Defence Policy (OGSP) Conference. It's been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0014par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the Tripolispor-Lazio match, we wish you all the best as the Republican People's Party Group. I also think that Galatasaray's two-two-leading tie in the match with Juventus was a significant advantage for Galatasaray on the way to the Cup. And I wish Galatasaray well on his journey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0015par0071	Thank you. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For the following reasons, we would like to propose and investigate Parliamentary investigations of our Constitution, Articles 104th, 105th, under which Articles 104th and 105th of which we have adopted energy policies and issues in Turkey that need to be taken in order to investigate the measures that should be taken by investigating energy production, transmission, distribution and use. 4/4/2012 [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Yozgat]] [[Manisa]] 5) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] [[Elizipt]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] 13) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] As it is known, one of the priority conditions for being a country with a say in the world is, without a doubt, to have sufficient energy resources and to be able to use those resources correctly. The countries implementing energy policies correctly stand out in international competition, while energy-dependent countries have to be dependent on both economic and political policies. Turkey's ability to become a regional and global force also depends on its use of its energy resources in production, while its position and use of the opportunity to become an energy corridor in its region. This is closely related to energy policies implemented by governments at work. Unfortunately, in our country, due to false energy policies based on gas and oil imports imposed by AKP governments in recent years, energy dependence has grown increasingly, production's consumption rate has dropped, high fugitives and loss rates have never been drawn to acceptable limits. The construction of nuclear power plants has never been started, many of the top bureaucrats from the Ministry of Energy and Resources have been subjected to allegations of corruption or irregularity, some have been removed from their duties or forced to be tried. To ensure energy supply security in our country, energy production must be used to a maximum extent from new, renewable and domestic coal resources, such as wind, solar, geothermal, hydrogen, and biomass. In recent years, however, because of the increasing efficiency of oil and gas lobbyes in our country, domestic and renewable energy sources have not been evaluated enough, for which measures have not been taken to bring country resources into production, for which alternative energy sources and investments have not been encouraged, thermic-based power production plants have not been renewed, natural gas dependency has increased, and our water resources have not been used enough in hydroelectric production. In addition, energy efficiency in our country has not been increased to the expected extent. Electric energy distribution and use of waste and the prevention of fugitives, the development of the technology used and the energy savings of consumer consciousness has not been created. Following the privatisation of electricity distribution companies, illegal use of electricity in some distribution areas and cities has not been prevented, electricity prices have not been reduced, and the price of illegal electricity used in some cities has been imposed on all our citizens, and our honest citizens have been punished. Enhancing energy production and efficiency in our country, which will grow more energy needs in the future, providing energy supply security, and encouraging investments in renewable energy resources will inevitably be accelerated. On the other hand, our country, which signed the Kyoto Protocol and adopted these agreements, will have to be more careful to use its thermal energy sources in particular from 2012. In recent times, the high rates of gas and electricity prices have driven our fixed and narrow-income citizens as if they were infuriating. By acting with US officials in the past year, government officials have once again demonstrated their negative relations with other countries in our region, especially Syria, and have made it necessary to review policies that have been implemented. A parliamentary survey must be opened and evaluated with all the sizes of our country's energy policies, energy production, transmission, distribution and use in order for the measures to be taken on time. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to prevent division and division of agricultural land through the heritage, to determine solutions at the level of developed countries, to work on a new heritage system and to implement it, we propose the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and Institution. 03/04/2012 [[Paddles]] [[Adana]] 3) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Yozgat]] 6) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] 14) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Kütahya]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] The rapid population growth in our country and the developing conditions of the world have also increased the demand for food production. This has led to the need for the soil, which is the basis of food production, to be evaluated in accordance with the conditions of today's reform policies and the right reform policies. As a result, today, the disintegration of our land through heritage against growing demands and needs weakens its production power, the increasingly diminishing land is in danger of inefficiency, and our country is at a standstill both legally and agriculturally. The most important factor in the appearance of our agricultural fields in this way is the property situation due to inheritance law. As it is known, these negativeities that cause serious production and loss of income in agriculture are also bleeding as a social injury. For example, the most important result of this issue is the issue of migration from rural to urban. The uncontrollably continuing migration causes the urban population to increase and naturally the supply and demand balance does not dry. When the land is divided, it is not properly directed to produce property rights, when our farmer cannot provide for its livelihood, he has to migrate in spite of its resources. One of the most important suggestions in preventing division of agricultural land is that the person who is qualified to produce in the family and who is a farmer, by paying the heirs in accordance with the rights of the inheritance, take ownership over himself and compromise on this issue with mutual agreement. However, the implementation of this situation depends, of course, on the demands of our right-wing citizens who are involved in farming, and the process has shown that it is still not possible to prevent the division of the land. It should not be forgotten that migration, problems stemming from our country's growing food needs, and exports, which should be our main goal, will be to achieve the leadership of agricultural production in our region and in the world, are essentially possible with the risk of disintegration of these agricultural fields and employment in rural areas and other areas. The country's development process will increase inequality and production in the revenue distribution, so the overall development of the country will be provided with a suitable strategy. In this scope, we demand and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104, 105, of our Constitution 98th and Civil Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly By researching problems in grape farming and the farming industry In order to determine the measures that must be taken, we reduce the establishment of a research commission in accordance with Articles 104, 105, of our 98th and Interior Charter. [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 3) D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] 12) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Paddles]] [[Kayseri]] [[Slap]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] 21) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 22) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] Our country has great potential worldwide for its farmland. Little Asia, which includes its native state, is the region of the Caucasus. And given our country's agricultural potential, which is the world's top priority in the field of vineyard, it will be seen that it is not where it should be in this sector. Where it is used: grape is a good food ingredient. Grape sugars, organic acids, vitamin B and C, carry grain. In medicine, it's used as a urinary enhancer, digestive facilitator, laxative, and force-giving. It is called wine, which is obtained by the boredness of fresh grapes. It's power-giving and used as food. With the wine heated and darkened, the syrup is produced by condensation. It is also used in various foods from grape wine. Grapes are an important fruit for food and economic value. This importance and value must be provided with the necessary information to be known and understood, especially in the agricultural community. Today, producers who aim to grow products for exports are asked to produce a parallel production of the production standards, which are called the European Union market "EUREPGAP," and are intended to ensure a good production in agricultural production within the framework of good agricultural practices. There is no conscious production in our country, usually in the hands of small businesses and family businesses. The measures, incentives and measures needed to channel large and organised businesses into this sector are important. In this regard, it would be helpful for the producers to determine which species can be grown in our country's region and to be informed of the soil and climate demands of these species, and to be mapped by identifying these areas in our country, if necessary. Given the scientific possibilities of today, the producer needs to be aware of grapes and evaluations and marketing techniques. On these grounds, the benefit of our country and our local people in establishing a parliamentary research commission on what needs to be done will be undisputed, historical, and economic. It's been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Prime Minister's office has five papers, so I'll have them read them and present them to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The interest (c) from the Ministry of Justice has been issued in writing and its attachments to the request for the extradition of the document and the petition for a review of the investigation file sent to your President (b) in writing, which has been introduced about Siirt MP Gültan Kışanak. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Van MP Özdal Threeer has been issued a written and attached to the Ministry of Justice (c) of interest in the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your presidency (b) in writing and its attachments. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly An interest in Batman MP Bengi Yıldız has been issued in writing and its attachments to the Ministry of Justice (c) as to the request for the extradition of the document and the prosecution for review of the investigation file sent to your presidency (b) by writing on Batman MP Bengi Yıldız. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan has been referred to in writing and related to you from the Ministry of Justice (c) to ask for a review of the investigation file sent to you on the list of articles of interest (b). I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly You have been sent from the Ministry of Justice (c) of interest in the request of the document and the extradition of the petition to you for a review of the investigation file sent to you (b) written by Van MP Özdal Tiker and İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. I'll give you what you need. The main files, 3/137, 138, 187, 385 and 955 of the Constitution and Justice Commission, were returned to the government. There is another thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; I will have them read it and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegations headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, are presented to the draft of the General Assembly on official visits to countries mentioned in 28/3/1990 and in accordance with Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Montenegrin Parliament, Ranko Krivokapic and Belarus Republic Council President Anatoly Rubinov and Belarus House of Representatives President Vladimir Andreychenko. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister's office has a charter, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The conflict in Syria poses a growing threat to regional and international peace, security and stability. Our country feels this threat more and more closely every day. As a matter of fact, so far, the number of citizens who have died in Syrian attacks has reached 71. The size of the immigration pressure on our country is increasing. The number of Syrians we have already hosted in our country is more than 500,000 in accordance with the existing brotherhood and neighbourly law of the Syrian people. The number of displaced persons within Syria is estimated to be nearing 5 million. Under the regime's violence and persecution policies, it is likely to be faced with a larger mass migration movement, aimed at our borders at any moment and exerting pressure on our country. The Syrian mass migration movement also poses an indirect threat to our country as far as possible consequences. The regime also began using chemical weapons, in addition to heavy artillery and non-discriminate bombings, including ballistic missiles for the people, disregarding international law; lastly, more than 1,400 Syrian citizens lost their lives, including more than 1400 children, in an attack by chemical weapons in Damascus on 21 August 2013. This attack was a crime against humanity, which was confirmed by the United Nations on 16 September 2013 in "The Report Against Chemical Weapons Use in the Gota District of Damascus" published by the United Nations on August 21, 2013. The use of international law, including chemical weapons of the Syrian regime (the Prohibited Protocol on the Use of Drowning, Poisoning, and Similar Gasses and Bacteriological Tools in the War) has also raised a close and serious threat to Syria's neighbours, especially our country. The course of developments in Syria has brought measures aimed at preventing and deterring such weapons to a necessary level for our national security interests. Developments show that the Syrian regime has reached the point where it can use any method or weapon that goes against international norms. Turkey is the country most affected by any attack by the regime and the uncertainty and chaos in Syria. As a matter of fact, the United Nations Security Council's 2118 decision on 27 September 2013 confirmed that chemical weapons used in Syria pose a threat to international peace and security. All developments mentioned above require that measures be taken in accordance with our rights due to international law should be taken against any open and near threat to our national security from Syria. With these appeals, to ensure the safety of our country against possible dangers, to protect and protect Turkey's high interests effectively in the course of the crisis and then possible developments, according to the progress of events, to ensure that a swift and dynamic policy will be followed by a swift and dynamic policy that will be established in order to ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces will be sent to foreign countries and that the necessary arrangements that enable this will be established by the government in order to ensure that they will not be able to follow a difficult situation in the future. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the MPs quoted on Tezkere: Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğul Türkesh, Adana MP Faruk Logoglu on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, Bingl MP İdris Baluken on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Volcan Bozkır on behalf of the People's Party Group, MP Ismet Yilmaz on behalf of the government, İstanbul MP Osman Korturk on behalf of İstanbul MP Oktay Öçal on behalf of İztay. Now, to present your views on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I would like to call Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0016par0306	Mr. President, should the government be sitting here or not?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0017par0307	Mr. President, we miss the government, we're waiting.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0018par0308	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to explain the views of the National Movement Party for Turkey's Movement Party on October 4, 2012, regarding the extension of the permit period, which includes the transfer of Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries and the implementation of the necessary arrangements that enable it. As I begin my speech, I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, today is the anniversary of the bomb that was dropped on Akçakale. The anniversary of the incident in which five of our citizens received the mercy of Hakk. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy and his family's condolences to all our citizens who have received the mercy of Hakk. As it is known, our party has so far adopted an attitude in matters of foreign policy that predates our national interests in a very clear way, infertile, free from political accounts. We've been the target of both the power and the main opposition party under the roof of this parliament, because we've rejected the Ottomanist approaches that we think of the Turkish state and its people, but we've always done the right thing and said the right thing. And we're not gonna apologize to anyone for that. Thankfully, our conscience is clear, our forehead is clean. Foreign policy is a national political title with all its dimensions and branches, because it encompasses our collective property. Our party's commitment to state values and traditions in this particular area is undisputed, and if there are those who are willing to discuss it, they should know that they are overstepping their bounds. On the other hand, in order for one thing to be understood by all parties, our party is determined not to tolerate those who serve informal purposes under the guise of national politics until now, nor to show them after that. So why are we underlining this? Dear MPs, the state of the Republic of Turkey was built as a result of an epic but so painful struggle for independence. The Imperial War was given for the survival of a nation and the survival of its existence in the history scene. At first, the founders of our republic, the late Ataturk, have experienced the destruction of war, the violence, and the darkness. I'd like to ask you for a moment to visualize the photographs taken from that period, especially from those of you who stole battle tamts today. The children who stepped barefoot on the blood-watered soil, while the whole spiritual burden of the war was lifted up by women who were hunched on their backs, for the sake of the flag, for the sake of the nation, for the sake of the people, the young men who left their family behind, the old men... We, the esteemed lawmakers, are members of a nation that knows the misery of war, and for that reason, we are a nation that has understood the value of peace over the years. We, the Turkish nation, always prefer peace to war, unless someone comes to our country and attacks our people and tries to invade our borders. This is the epiphany of the late Ataturk. Although it is a clear fact that we are united by the nation, it is clear as day that the current power is not enough of its understanding of savings. From the very first day of the civil war in Syria, power, which was more than necessary, is the victim of its unbridled ideological ambition today. First of all, I have to say, there's a huge difference between today's thesis and October 4, 2012. Last year, our party supported a statement that was very useful because Syria was written after it crashed a plane, and today the conditions have changed. How? Let's face it, today's Syrian landscape is as follows: The United States and Russia agreed on minimum negotiations, with which a possible military intervention for Syria in the short and middle term has been eliminated, and the parties have begun preparations for the Second Geneva Conference. The AKP's ruling in the Middle East, which claims to be a quarterback, has been isolated on the international platform, as it was last detected at the G20 summit in Saint Petersburg. The second Geneva Conference, which will be held, may even be an exclusion of Turkey because of AKP's wrong policy. The AKP is getting more and more lonely because the only branch it's holding on to has been severed. Ihvan's momentum with the Arab Spring has been halted, and the structure has been defeated in Libya, Egypt, and finally has begun to be resolved in Tunisia. Ihvan has absorbed oppression and intimidation as a strategy wherever there is power. Exiles, bans, massacres, assassinations, terror and mass lynching, you name it. In such a sensitive geography, it would be naive to think that the West would remain silent. As a matter of fact, the West has been involved in events throughout the Arab Spring geography, and we all know the consequences. The next state was Syria. First, when it was discovered that Syria, which had been severely abused, was the pandora box of the region, the retreat was taken. One Ihvan power here would be too much. And then they looked, and Syria wasn't just Syria; it was Russia, China, Iran, Hezbollah; they didn't get enough; they looked at it, and it was Sunni-Sii conflict, and Al Qaeda came out, and Kurdish separatists were armed. What happened? He's retreated. As a result, Russia freed President Obama of the United States of America from great distress by offering to dispose of chemical weapons and achieved a serious diplomatic victory by preventing possible military intervention. Of course, where there is a victory, there is no doubt defeat, which has been given to AKP power, Gulf countries, and to Ihvan (Ihvan) in general. So, what does all this mean? That means we won't have to send troops to Syria under any international coalition umbrellas anytime soon. Besides, our armed forces' rules of engagement have been changed. In the event of a possible breach, the necessary response is already in effect, and it will be in the future. It means that AKP's view of foreign policy has lost its legitimacy and is cracking from every limb. The AKP has fallen from clouds of dreams to the hard ground of reality, with its wings burned as it wants to fly high. It means that we've reached the end of AKP's lie about success in foreign policy, which so far has made up for its failures in domestic policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, to be honest, you can't stop thinking about it. Mr. Davutoglu was a genius for diplomacy, which, in the end, is now shared by the two major terrorist groups of the Syrian border of the Republic of Turkey. The first is Al Qaeda, and the second is PKK. The AKP ignored and despised the leader of the PYD in Ankara with red carpets. Clearly, the AKP is responsible for this disgrace in the first degree, but the essence of the matter is not here. One of the reasons the government has brought to our attention is because of Syrian-based attacks. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you: is there a single pro-Assad structure on the Turkish-Syrian border? Part of the other side of our border has not been humanized, but these terrorist groups, supported by NGOs close to power, are in the hands of the baby killers you're negotiating with. What Syrian attacks are you talking about, for God's sake? The bloodiest attack in our Republic's history was carried out in Reyhan. Al Qaeda is the leading actor in this brutal act. Yes, it is the Al Qaeda terrorist organization, which some of the NGOs that AKP uses as tongs have publicly provided money, logistics and employees. We haven't forgotten, nor have we forgotten, that the Prime Minister used his ugly words to separate the tears from the Reyhan and those who lost their lives from their sects. Bullets that fell to Ceylanınar, Akchakale, and blind bullets that hit our citizens at regular intervals in that area are often caused by the Al Qaeda-PKK conflict. You think we don't know about this? I continue: There is a report that confirms that the United Nations used chemical weapons in Syria, but who used it is still unknown. What if it's your allies who are using it, then what are you going to do, maintain the same attitude? It is the duty of Turkey to maintain Syrian territorial integrity. No separatist or sectarian ambitions should be allowed in the north of the country. Again, helping the government to follow a fast and dynamic policy is a very vague expression. This passage is a sign of the impregnation of power, which claims to have been in the mastery phase. The word "dynamical" in this chapter corresponds to the rash that we are now accustomed to, and the word "dynamic" corresponds to the aggressive nature that exists in the AKP's yeast. In other words, the reasons are clear signs of AKP's desire to be impulsive and aggressive about Syria in the coming period. It's amazing how a power never learns from what's going on! AKP's brotherly love and ideological ambitions in this context bring the end step by step. The Prime Minister says there is no active opposition in this country. He says, but as long as it persists, he will be his own greatest enemy. We appreciate your will to consume yourself and enjoy watching. However, when it comes to consuming Turkey, there you see the huge body of the National Movement Party. As a matter of fact, this council bench is a great opportunity for you to listen to our warnings, not to us. You know, you might not know the warnings we've been sending to you because the press you've blocked has passed our statements through the censorship filter. Dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my speech, I referred to our party's national political vision and stated that our main goal in foreign policy was to protect the interests of state and nation. At this point, I'd like to address the financial burden that the Syrian stubbornness of power has made the citizens of the street feel. So far, the amount paid to Syrian asylum seekers by the AFAD is $2 billion. Kızılay spends $9,600,000 each month on 120,000 Syrian asylum seekers. I'm not even adding the trade deficit to this painting, caused by the losses and various causes of our companies doing business with the region. 40,000 truck drivers are out of work due to the Syrian crisis, easy to say, 40,000. This is directly affecting 120,000 people, given the household population. Do you know what this is, valued lawmakers? It's the obvious result of human labor. These expenditures return to our people through additional taxes, and by means of what they call the ridicule of power, i.e. raises. The tax-paying power is melting with additional taxes and raises that are unfairly imposed on the tax-paying citizen. The legal money earned by the sweat of our citizen is forced out of his pocket and is mobilised to sustain the ideological foreign policy of power. It's called extortion, theft of labor, and it's embarrassing. Yes, dear lawmakers, it is clear to you that the image I describe to you is an unofficial quality and that our state contradicts the interests of our people. People don't want war, people don't want war, people don't want us to have any trouble, so-called dynamic policies. The Prime Minister, who has not been able to get his eye on public research and polls, still has no idea that the winds of national will are blowing against him in Syria. Don't let the mothers cry! You're going to put the defenses of the country on the shelf, but you're going to make mothers cry to intervene in another country? Let me speak in the manner of the late Erbakan, that you may understand: Get out of here! I also address our anti-war friends within the AKP: Be humble, our nation cannot be used for any dirty war because of an ideological whim, and we will not allow it. The National Movement Party is the sole guarantee and representative of the national reflex. Unless our country faces a direct threat of attack, our attitude is clear and peaceful. If the AKP wants to take an initiative beyond that, it will have decided its own fate and will walk alone. In this regard, the National Movement Party supports the thesis in the name of activating our national defence mechanisms and the government's failure to cross that goal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0019par0329	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Faruk Logoglu. Here you go, Logoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0020par0333	Mr. President, I congratulate you on your new assignment and wish you all the best. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Syrian thesis the government has brought to parliament for the 2nd time. I hereby salute you all, and hope that the new era of legislation will witness positive decisions in terms of true democracy and full freedom for our people and for our country. Dear lawmakers, while diplomatic efforts on international platforms have been accelerated to end the civil war that began in April 2011 in Syria, the government is opening the new legislature with a declaration of war. It's disrespect for our people who oppose war and the sad weight of AKP power's exemplary lack of hearing. (HIP) I would like to point out immediately that the Republican People's Party will always oppose the removal of Turkey from its position for peace and stability and turn it into a warmongering country. The number of people who died in the Syrian conflict exceeded 115 thousand. In addition to hundreds of thousands of wounded, the latest report of the United Nations International Independent Syrian Research Commission says 6 million Syrians have been replaced. In Syria, every balance sheet of war reveals the existence of a fire that must be extinguished immediately in our neighbor. The greatest task in putting out this fire is undoubtedly to the countries most affected by the conflict, the neighbours of Syria. However, given the Syrian policy the AKP government has been following for two and a half years, we can't find any trace of the responsibility and consciousness required by this mission. The Justice and Development Party follows an adventurous and irresponsible Syrian policy, which lacks the axis of religion, freedom and prediction, which is shaped by invalid assumptions and expectations. Despite the warnings and the loneliness that they now accept, this policy is being stubbornly carried out. The AKP has brought our country to the brink of a war disaster, as it continues to cause great damage to the safety of our people's lives and goods. Dear lawmakers, the AKP government's policy consists of a bossy style that feeds on insults to the Syrian regime, a biased stance that supports armed radical elements in the country's conflicts, and an exclusive approach to diplomatic efforts. Since the beginning of the problem, the Republican People's Party has offered concrete and constructive proposals to give up this uniquely bigotry policy. Let an international conference be held with the participation of the conflicting parties and related countries, led by Turkey a year and a half ago to stop the blood flowing in our neighbour. The government has pushed our proposal away. Turkey today, this government has made it a second-rate actor who has only been silenced by the international community. Our call for the Supreme Assembly to take a peaceful stance on Syria is again rejected by the Justice and Development Party. Recently, the government has not respected the idea of Turkey making an attempt to call for a ceasefire by the United Nations Security Council. Again, the government did not approve of our proposal to destroy chemical weapons in Syria, but Russia did. After all, the Republican People's Party has always said "peace," "diplomasi," "political," and the Justice and Development Party has always said "warrior" and "more guns," "not less military intervention," and that's the difference between us. The next Syrian thesis also shows that the AKP government does not care about the growing cost of the war in Syria, the possibility that our country's security will be compromised by isolation and that our region will become a wider conflict zone. The government's sterile approach, which is all, is to go away. It is understood that support for radical elements, especially al-Qaeda, will not be cut off. It is clear that the future of hundreds of thousands of refugees and our people is being sacrificed for the ideological ambitions of the AKP government. Dear lawmakers, where has the crippled Syrian policy brought our country to? The Turkish-Syrian border has become a transit point for terrorist organizations, our border has been vaporized, and the most dangerous terrorist organizations in the world, including Al Qaeda, have become our country's new neighbours and guests. There are serious allegations that El Nusra and the same line of organisations provide materials used to make chemical weapons from our country. The weapons and chemical weapons sent by the third countries are not cut off from the reports that the opposition forces have been delivered through Turkey. It has also appeared in the press that terrorist organisations threatened Turkey not to close the border crossings. In the events caused by the Syrian crisis, dozens of our citizens died in Reyhanlı, Ceylanpınar and Akchakale. It is said that Al-Qaeda took over the Reyhanlı case. The statement made by the Ministry of Interior is not credible in this context. On the other hand, the economies of our border regions have collapsed, and our citizens have no peace and safety. AKP's Syrian politics also led to a surge in Turkey's Middle Eastern policy. Turkey has become a country that favours armed elements and favours civil war in the neighbouring country. The Syrian policy is set to allow Turkey to be isolated in Turkey's region. Friends of Turkey are now organisations on the Hamas and Muslim Brothers line. It is shameful and shameful that the AKP government is trying to sell this disaster to our people in meaningless ways, such as the precious loneliness. Syria's policy, which bears the mark of religious saiks and spreading aims towards the region, has exhausted zero. Turkey is a country that imports terrorism today thanks to the AKP (AKP) and is involved in domestic relations with terrorist organisations. Even though we've asked several times, why does the AKP government still refuse to accept that the Nusra front is a terrorist organization? Months ago, how can an ambassador who claims that al-Qaeda was not a terrorist organization remain in office despite our repeated warnings and questions? Since the ambassador has not been denied and has not been dismissed, is Foreign Minister Davutoglu agreeing with the ambassador's opinion? I ask you again: Are the organizations Iraq and Syria Islamic State terrorist organizations, or are they AKP's allies and friends in Syria because they are against the Syrian regime, according to the AKP government? Warmongering also has international costs for Turkey. The Syrian policy, created by delusions such as regional leadership and quarterbacking, also undermines Turkey's relations with all regional countries, especially Russia, the United States and Iran. Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Davutoglu's efforts to raise the world for a military intervention in Syria have failed, and the AKP has lost a heavy reputation. Mr. President, could you please warn the friends?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0021par0345	Congressmans, would you please stop humming in the living room. It's so loud, he can't concentrate on his speech, please... Here you go, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0020par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. Even the final decision adopted by the United Nations Security Council in a unanimous agreement on Syria has caused dissatisfaction in the AKP government. So much so that a government official's words about the delivery of chemical weapons have sadly eliminated the opportunity to intervene in Syria. He has gone so far as to say. The AKP is uncomfortable with every step towards peace. What kind of hatred is this friend and brother against the people of Syria, and what mentality is that? The point of the Syrian crisis is that on one hand, the international community is trying to find a diplomatic solution to the situation in Syria, making decisions, gathering conferences, on the other, dissolving diplomatic efforts, taking sides, making warmongers. CHP did not have a policy to support one of the conflicting parties in Syria, but it met with all parties in an effort to stop the bloodshed and end the conflicts. The Republican People's Party represents peace in the world, not war politics in the region. Dear MPs, the biggest problem of the civil war in Syria on a regional scale is the Syrian asylum seekers. The number of Syrian asylum seekers, including Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, has been distributed to almost all countries in the region. The international community has not been able to provide sufficient financial support for the countries where asylum seekers are found. This increases the burden on the countries that accept asylum seekers. Turkey, which spends $4 billion on Syrian asylum seekers, is overwhelmed by the financial burden of uncontrollable refugee policy. Today, the number of Syrian asylum seekers registered in our country is more than 500,000, and the number of non-registers is estimated to be this high. Based on the assumption that Assad would be overturned in two or three weeks, Syrian policy has left our country with a terrible human drama and security problem. The refugees today are not only in camps, but all over Turkey. Some of them are good, but most of them are trying to survive under conditions that don't suit humanity. Do Syrian asylum seekers, who the AKP government boasts of hosting, have human conditions? Does the government have any plans or predictions as to when these people will return to their country? With what resources and how will Turkey face this growing burden? Do the reports of Syrian women being sold, children being driven into Syrian battlefields, and many being exploited as cheap labor forces leave no mark on our consciences? Or do you see these inhumane practices as the nature of the work? If the motion to investigate human rights violations of Syrian asylum seekers is taken into consideration, we will discuss the rationality of AKP's humanity in more detail here. Dear lawmakers point to the danger of a mass migration movement. I would like to remind those who wrote this text in February 2012 by Foreign Minister Davutoglu. The gates of Turkey are open to all Syrian people who escape the pressures in Syria, and we will welcome them to our home if necessary, says Mr. Davutoglu. Now, what happened in the last year and a half to justify a possible migration wave to our country? I thought you were ready to accept all the Syrians. So foreign policy wasn't made from the top curtain, unreal, in the beginning with words that sound good. Everyone, especially the Secretary of State, has to control their language. The tensions between the good lawmakers, Syrian refugees and our citizens have also begun to grow. AKP's adventurous Syrian policy provokes two people against each other, who have no reason to be enemies. (HPP clapping in rows) It is also understood from the text "Tezkere" that the AKP is cornered and desperate for Syrian asylum seekers. The problem he created is that the AKP has captured its government. (HPP) The AKP is victimizing both the Syrians and our own citizens who have taken refuge in our country. I'd like to share with you another word from the Secretary of State. Mr. Davutoglu never called for war last month. He used his statement. I take the Minister's word for it as an insult to our people's intelligence and the power to remember, and I refuse. Isn't it Mr. Davutoglu who has been trying to convince the international community of a military action against Syria since the beginning of the conflict in Syria, and today plays the lonely ones in the corner he's been pushed into? Isn't he the one who led the groups against the Syrian regime to organize in Turkey? Didn't the Free Syrian Army make Hatay their headquarters for months? The Minister either doesn't remember what he said before or doesn't even care what he says. Both cases are a grave painting for a foreign minister. Russia's President Putin (Russian President) is insulting to the AKP's foreign policy to address this contradiction in a sarcastic way. Dear friends, the AKP wants to make you pay the bill for its wrong, biased and aggressive Syrian policy, which it follows with this thesis on the Supreme Assembly. The AKP government, which has been left alone in the world and its region, has begun to be excluded from all diplomatic processes, has suffered the response of the international community and the great states, wants to be a hero to our people. The Justice and Development Party is responsible for the loss of the lives of 71 of our citizens and for the mass migration that awaits our country. The government, which we expect to change Syria's policy, is able to show us the rashness of dating with a declaration of war. (CHP clapping in rows) As if that wasn't enough, this war thesis is adorned with false statements and distortions. The text contains specific statements that the Syrian regime uses chemical weapons. Yes, chemical weapons were used in Syria, which is documented. We curse whoever used it, but there's no conclusive evidence of who used it, there's mutual accusations. Based on what evidence can the AKP government point to one of the parties conflicting over the use of chemical weapons? Is the AKP government's intelligence source the Anadolu Agency? Even the United Nations Security Council used the chemical weapon. How can the AKP government include this charge when it does not say so? (HIP) How is it that the government of Reyhan, Cilve-eyes, and who has yet to shed light on the events of Uludere and Afyon, can quickly come to such a firm conclusion on this complex matter? Syria's agreement supported by the Security Council of the United States and Russia for the liquidation of chemical weapons is under way today. The AKP government should put aside the war mentality and help implement this agreement. In Syria it opens a window of opportunity to end violence and to make peace, the agreement on chemicals. Therefore, Turkey must make a sincere effort for the success of the Syrian Conference, which is expected to gather in Geneva. Another remarkable statement in the thesis text is the sending of Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries. What is the intention of the AKP government? With this thesis, the AKP can send troops all over the world as a principle. What is the meaning of a second expression, again, in the thesis text, during and after the crisis? Is he planning on attacking any country you want and staying there? Our advice is, "Get a hold of yourselves, and do not exceed the measure." You may feel strong and untouchable in power today, but remember, the people are stronger than you. You may forget, but history never forgets or forgives. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Our people don't want war. The Republican People's Party is on the side of our people who want peace. He is determined to continue to carry their demands of peace, security and stability to the House. Our future generations will remember today's Syrian policy with great shame, and the Middle East people with great resentment and anger. Our party will continue to work to open ways of peace and dialogue, to oppose developments and attempts that could lead to armed conflict with neighbouring Syria at the request of our people. Our region needs peace and reconciliation, not new wars. The solution and need for Syria is not a declaration of war, but the AKP government to change Syrian policy from top to bottom. For the reasons that I explained in my speech, we will vote negatively as the Republican People's Party for the thesis, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0022par0363	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0023par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the subject of the debate. I salute your committee. First of all, I'd like to say that we have met with great concern the misfortune of reopening a new year of legislation with a review of war, and that the opening of the House with this declaration of war against the peace, democracy and freedom of our peoples. I'd like to point out that with such an important issue being discussed, we find the ranks of the Parliament and the ranks of the government so empty in no way acceptable. Before I speak again, I would like to point out that we have been very concerned about the development of the funeral that had been held hostage in Gülsuyu for three days and was not allowed to be buried. I'd like to stress that recently, especially through funerals, through graveyards, the practice of our families, our people, is in no way acceptable to the government in any way, with a mind that is, in a manner of speaking, trying to punish them. Dear President, dear MPs, of course, I would like to first express a few issues from the Middle East window to express our views on Syria. In the Middle East, as we know, for many years, authoritarian governments, dictatorial regimes, and single-man governments have imposed all kinds of oppression and persecution on the Middle Eastern people. Even the most fundamental rights and freedoms were banned by these cruel dictatorial governments in Middle Eastern geography. This ongoing policy of persecution and oppression fed the interests of regional and global hegemonic forces, while, in other words, a huge response to the public's view also brought a great amount of anger. This gathering of anger brought to the attention of the Middle Eastern peoples a huge social boom and a new transformation process that began when a traveling salesman in Tunisia set his own body on fire. In favor of the will of the peoples of this great process of change and transformation, there has been a great social expectation for those who have fought for humanity all over the world, not only in the Middle East, but in the Middle East. The last example of this great wave of rebellion continued from Tunisia to Egypt showed itself in Syria. In particular, with regional and global developments, AKP ruling changed the position of soft power, along with this emerging process of change and transformation, bringing a number of policies ahead of the war to the center of their central policy. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, have called from this platform or from all platforms where we communicate our views. This transformation and transformation process is not conjunctural, but strategic for the people. Thus, we have stated countless times that the policies that the government should decide should be determined, not in a conjunctural way, but strategically, that the peoples should be determined to be equal to the demands of peace, democracy and freedom. Dear lawmakers, both global imperialist hegemonic forces and all the dictatorships in Turkey and the Middle East have been caught in a terrible state of impromptuness, as described as the Arab Spring. In particular, Western forces have tried to balance their impregnable capture with war policies and attacks, making efforts to maintain their hegemonic interests in the Middle East. In particular, in Turkey and in AKP, we would like to stress that this process was shaped by a Syrian policy that soon reads from the throne of Gaddafi (Mubarak) or from the seat of Mubarak (Mubarak) and therefore brought our people to the brink of war, along with great mistakes. As a whole Middle East policy, the whole Syrian policy, the wrong analysis, the policy that was created conjuncturally, is on the verge of bankruptcy today and is on the verge of collapse as of today. When the first public uprisings began in Syria, the date was March 15, 2011. Young people who wanted change and change in Syria at the time wanted the public regime to fall on the streets of Damascus in Syria. When they wrote, the AKP government was busy signing a contract to fight the Assad regime on April 6th, and to sign a naval co-operation agreement with terrorist organisations. During the process, El Nusra and the Islamic State of Iraq-Sham, who were on the international terrorist organisation's lists, demonstrated how insincere he was even in line with the commitments given by the AKP government. We know that this declaration of war, which has been discussed today, is the approval of a procedure that must be carried out here to obtain Parliament's approval, because the AKP has already been an active component of the war process, which has been going on in Syria for a long time, with its policies. An understanding associated with Al Qaeda in Syrian conflicts, supporting the El Nusra-related gangs, has unfortunately made our country a part of the civil conflict and war in Syria. Let alone this internal conflict or this intervention, especially the artillery that fell to Akchakale, the mortars that fell to Hatay, the Turkish fighter plane that was shot down by Syria, the Syrian helicopter that had been shot down by Turkish fighter planes, has already made it clear that Turkey is largely part of this war. So what's done today is an effort, an effort, an effort to formalise a process of war, which has been unofficially initiated, a process of war that has been initiated. Dear lawmakers, we have said countless times from here that we have expressed that two hegemonic blocs have formed globally while reshaping in the Middle East. America, Europe, Gulf countries, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, a block led by Sunni -- an axed, sectal axis -- and across this bloc was a Shii bloc supported by Russia, China, Iran, Lebanon, Iraq, Shia -- and we said that the conflict of hegemonic power between these two blocks would not bring any benefit to the people except blood, tears, and war. We said that what Turkey, the AKP government should do should not be a party between these two hegemonic blocs, but as a third way, it should be a policy based on the freedom of the peoples of Syria, the peoples of the Middle East, the future of freedom in peace. Unfortunately, from the beginning, the AKP has taken its place in a hegemonical bloc with the U.S. government, along with hegemonic European countries, along with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, to match its own regional mission, and from that day, Turkey's entire Syrian policy, based on the will of the peoples, has failed to expand freedom, democracy, freedom, brotherhood. We had said that these false policies would not yield any results and would bring to the region an increasing risk of a sect and a regional war of ethnic origin. Unfortunately, the process justified all of our statements, and today we are about to hear the footsteps of a major ethnic and religious, regional war right next to us. Dear lawmakers, this foreign policy adventure, which the AKP government has begun with the policy of zero problems, has resulted in the fact that no country remains without problems today, the process of recycling in the Middle East, balancing transformation. We see here a political bankruptcy with Iraq, Iran, Iran, Syria, which has reached the end of all diplomatic, bureaucratic relations, particularly four-piece Kurds living in Kurdistan. Especially with the wrong policies in Syrian policy, the position of two countries from the brother Assad period, from joint Council of Ministers meetings to the enemy Esed period, and ready to fight as one. Fortunately, the last diplomatic attack of America, Russia, and the United Nations, which prioritized a democratic, political solution through the stalemate in Syria, brought at least the process of putting a major regional war on the shelf right now, to be postponed. Dear MPs, we would like to reiterate from here that historically anti-Kurdish anti-Kurdish, anti-Kurdish policies were shaped by the AKP government at the centre of the foreign policy on Syria. In this process, all policies aimed at surrendering the Kurdish people's freedom will have been activated by the AKP government, which has no basis, al-Qaeda gangs and Al-Qaeda gangs, which have no legitimacy in the Syrian population, and Al-Nusra gangs against the Kurdish people. Ceylanpınar, Kızıltepe, Viranşehir, Nusaybin and Akchakale border corridors against Kurds have been opened to these El Nusra and Al Qaeda gangs and a position of war headquarters which co-ordinated the internal conflict in Syria. I'd like to give a concrete example of the TIGEM land in Ceylanınar, where all the people of Ceylanınar are now well-informed. TIGEM land, which has been being used as a state breeding farm since 1950, has been a region where from the beginning of this process, Al Qaeda and Al Nusra gangs have been able to easily use all their logistical support to get through the two doors where the war against the Kurds is the busiest of Til Xelefs, where they've come to heal their wounds again. A week ago, I was at Ceylanpınar, and the TIGEM facility I mentioned is now closed to civilian entrances, and hundreds of cameras protect the surrounding area of these TIGAM fields in the form of a large security corridor. In Reyhanlı, those Al-Qaeda and El-Nusra gangs, who cannot protect their own citizens from the bombs, who cannot protect their own citizens from the bombs, continue to protect them successfully until now. Again, all the wounded from this region, all the wounded of these El Nusra gangs, are being treated in the hospitals in Urbania, in Ceylannar, in Viranşehir, and in the days when there were many wounded, there were great concentrations of hospitals to be closed to civilian patients. We believe that this situation should be read historically as a continuation of an understanding that puts anti-Kurdish policies at its center. We've expressed it many times from here. During the conflict of these two hegemonic blocs, the Kurds of Rojava had made an effort to expose their own self-government, along with their own self-will, without being included in any bloc, without any global power. As Mr. Salih Müslim said, the Kurds were trying to correct a wrongly written history. At this level, I would like to emphasize again that the policies that feed on such enemy law against the Rojava Kurds, which show not only the Kurds in the Middle East, but all the peoples in the Middle East, that a third way is possible, that they are not accepted by us in any way. Dear lawmakers, over 500,000 Syrian refugees are now within Turkey's borders. The official figures are 500, but the real numbers are way beyond that. You all know the problems these refugees are going through. We're dealing with refugees who have suffered a victimic situation in major cities, metropoliss, border cities, where they can't even find a place to sleep. In Syria, the reflection of ethnic and religious policies is reflected in the drama that these refugees have experienced. The fact that refugees from Syria are Alevi or Kurds is a result of a cataclysmic increase in victims. Alevi refugees who came to Istanbul have faced difficulties that could not find a floor to sleep on in a park. Kurdish refugees arriving in border areas have been forced to stay in camps where Al Nusra members are organized. Thus, the policies imposed by discrimination, sectarian and ethnicity were unfortunately implemented by the AKP's government in approaches to refugees as well. The economic embargo for Rojava, especially for Western Kurdistan, has brought great dramas to date as a page of shame. Until just a month ago, the AKP government had not allowed the most humanitarian aid materials, baby food, diapers, medicines, vaccines to pass, but had followed a policy that would discipline the Kurds of Rojava with hunger, disease, death. In spite of the misdeeds committed during this process, the arrival of the PYD co-chair to Turkey and the reaction of Kurds living in Turkey allowed the transition of these humanitarian supplies to the gate of Şenyurt in Kıztepe, Suruç. But every time we pass humanitarian aid, we face a very strong resistance in the local area, which can perform phone diplomacy for days. Again, the drama about Afrin (Afrin) who is suffering a great loss reflects a tragic situation. From the beginning of the war in Afrin, we know that to this day, you had dozens of children who died of drug problems, vaccine shortages, hunger. Despite months of talks, we face a government practice that does not open a corridor of humanitarian aid to Afrin, which does not open a door to those who need help in Afrin. This mistake must be abandoned at once. Afrin must open the corridor of humanitarian aid and border crossing at once. The joy imposed by local, military, property, executive executives must be eliminated immediately, especially at the border crossings of Müshidpınar and Şenyurt. So that the governor of Urbana continues to block all these efforts in a special and original effort to convey humanitarian aid to those who have become part of the war in Rojava. Our request is that the public councils in Rojava are not just Kurds, but Arabs, Nusairi, Armenians, non-Muslims, Turkmen in the region. Humanitarian aid to Rojava must be delivered to the people of Rojava with the help of public councils and human rights institutions. We're dealing with a government practice that hasn't delivered two ambulances and two mills to Rojava for five months. If this is not the law of hostility, then the minister must come here and explain why these two ambulances and two mills haven't been delivered to Rojava for five months. The arrival of those ambulances and those mills could have revealed significant consequences that could have saved the lives of dozens of children. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do we have an extension, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0024par0390	No, I don't. I didn't give it to the other speakers, so please follow the same rule.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0023par0391	Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out again that Turkey and the government of the AKP have implemented a policy of Rojava and Syria that will do no good to the people; that peace, freedom, democracy, brotherhood; that what will be given to the Syrian peoples, Kurds, and the peoples of Turkey is peace policies, but not to the people of Turkey, we will use this disseminate vote.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0024par0393	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır. Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0025par0396	Mr. President, first of all, I congratulate you on your new assignment and wish you a continued success. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge by our Grand Assembly to explain the views of the EC PARTY Group regarding the October 4, 2012 resolution and the release of Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries and the extension of the government's permission to extend the necessary arrangements for this matter for a year. The developments in Syria, our neighbor for nearly three years have been on the agenda of our country, as has been on a global scale. In Syria, the protection of national security and interests remains the basis of our national policy, under the risks and threats posed by a large environment of human and socioeconomic destruction. In this framework, it is seen as necessary by our government to extend the thesis dated October 4, 2012, to effectively protect and protect Turkey's high interests, to help follow a fast and dynamic policy in the face of possible developments. Despite all the goodwill of the international community, especially in our country, and in the interest of conscientious individuals, the deepening of the conflict and chaos in Syria has not been prevented in the course of time. Last year, it was brought to the attention of five of our citizens in Akçakale district, following a brutal attack by Syrian forces in the Syrian regime, which our great Parliament approved last year, following the deaths of five of our citizens. At the coming stage, risks and threats from Syria, both for regional security and stability, have increased and gained new dimensions. The policies followed by the regime in Syria pose a clear threat to international peace and security. Thus, the threat perception that we have expressed during the October 4, 2012 talks continues to grow today. The political threat of the Syrian regime has reached its destination in the last half century, unprecedented. The Bezar Assad regime has been registered as the sole responsibility for crimes committed against humanity in Syria, both in the statements and decisions of many international organisations, both in the United Nations documents, and in the meetings held by friends of the Syrian people. On 21 August, the use of chemical weapons, mostly women and children in Damascus targeting civilians, was the latest and most cruel example of the regime's raging and mass destruction policies. This inhuman attack has been described as an open threat to international peace and security and has been confirmed as an open crime in 2118, which the United Nations Security Council adopted for the first time in two and a half years on Syria. The Syrian regime massacred about 1,400 innocent civilians, including 400 children, during the last chemical weapons attack.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0026par0401	Well, 100,000 people died before that.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0025par0402	After a two-and-a-half-year period of the United Nations Security Council, we welcome diplomatically the decision on Syria for the first time. But I also find it useful to remind you that the evidence that the Syrian regime was using chemical weapons was submitted to the American authorities during our Prime Minister's official visit to the United States in May. In an official statement issued on June 13th, United States Deputy White House National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes announced that the Syrian regime used chemical weapons as a result of their investigation, which he also developed as sarin gas. I still recommend that the speakers before me read this very clear statement, which states that there is still no telling who used the chemical weapon. Although the use of chemical weapons was clear in June, the international community remained silent and indifferent to this, as Saddam Hussein killed many innocent people using chemical weapons in Aleppoce in 1988. Political mechanisms, in a sense, felt the obligation to act on August's chemical weapons mass murder and the fact that the children who were killed raise the photos in public around the world. Such concepts as intervention in Syria, punishment for using chemical weapons are on the agenda in those days. However, as soon as the world began to be forgotten, the international community, which was reluctant to intervene in Syria and punish Syria, chose to seek refuge in the back of a brilliant diplomatic move by Russia, allowing the UN Council's decision to emerge as it is ahead today. This decision, built only on preventing chemical weapons use in Syria, is justified by a massacre outside of chemical weapons. We are concerned that it will lead to false violence. We also wish that the United Nations decision would not allow Bezar Assad to ensure his dictatorship and buy time in that direction. On this occasion, the United Nations system, designed according to the painting after the Second Gulf War, has become clear that it is now losing its function and needs to be changed. It is necessary to change the United Nations structure in a way that lacks success and is unable to make decisions in the face of world problems, even in the light of today's reality. In this framework, on the basis of the General Assembly of the United Nations, I would like to underline the proposal made here by our President in New York. Mr. President, I remind you once again that the number of Syrians killed by the Syrian regime with air raids and other weapons, including ballistic missiles, is nearing 150,000, and that should be kept in constant remembrance. We need to do this again on the agenda of all international platforms, especially the United Nations, to ensure that the world is not forgotten in public. It is one of the main tasks of the international community that the regime does not go unpunished for crimes against humanity. We also welcome our government's active efforts in this direction. We believe that the account for this crime of humanity in Syria will eventually be questioned. The conflict in Syria is becoming increasingly military and the spiral of violence is expanding. One of the main reasons for this is that the Syrian regime can sustain its stay by providing it with external logistics, finances, diplomatic and military support. In this way, the risk of stabilisation of the eastern Mediterranean basin has increased, leading to the regionalisation of the conflict outside Syria. In the current situation, the Syrian regime's plan is clear. The Syrian regime intends to neutralize the Syrian people's struggle for freedom and democracy by creating geopolitical accounts, regional power equations and sect-based conflicts. So Bezar Assad, in a sense, wants to rebuild his future on the blood of the Syrian people. The aggressive stance of the Syrian regime as a result of this treacherous plan also presents an extremely dangerous trend for regional peace and security. Every unrequited massacre in the international plan, every use of ballistic missiles and chemical weapons, every aggressive action aimed at the neighbours, serves no purpose but to encourage the regime to increase its violence. Compared to data from last year's phase, the number of dead in Syria increased by 5 times to 150,000; the cost of human destruction in Syria was 100 billion; the number of Syrian refugees needing help increased by 7 million; the number of Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries increased by 7 times to 2.1 million, and the number of people displaced within Syria increased by at least 2.5 million. The fact that Lebanon and Jordan have been exposed to about a quarter of the population of refugees reveals the extent of the human disaster in our region. These figures alone demonstrate the risks of security with economic and social burdens facing neighbouring countries, especially Turkey. Turkey is already doing its humanitarian duty to more than 200,000 Syrian brothers at 20 shelters. Turkey, along with its relatives, hosts 600,000 Syrian brothers. The burden of this on the economy of Turkey is indicative of its explanation. Turkey, as it has done throughout history, has not closed its doors to those who seek refuge in it, and will no longer close its doors. However, we expect that in the coming period, Turkey's humanitarian attitude, which welcomes our brothers and sisters who have been forced to flee Syria, and the world's countries, who praise the resources it provides for them, will now demonstrate not only their rhetoric but also their contribution to sharing the burden. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the security risks our country has been exposed to due to Syrian-based developments have not been limited to intense and mass migration-related problems. Before the suffering of the people we lost in Akchakale was over, there were incidents at the gates of Akchakale and Cilveg. In Reyhanlı, the Syrian regime has been linked to the intelligence organization in which the Republic has committed the most bloody terrorist attack in our history. There have also been numerous fatalities due to bullets from conflict on the other side of the border and recent increased smuggling attempts. These losses have made us deeply sad and sad. Once again, I wish God's mercy to our dead citizens, and my condolences to the rest of them. The developments in Syria, our neighbor, whose 9-1-1 mile-long common border has reached a level that cannot be assessed by the reflection of the conflict in just one country, within the current conditions. As a result of the chaos created by the regime in Syria, a vacuum of authority and power has appeared near our border. The radical and terrorist elements taking advantage of this situation have speeded up their efforts to fill the void of authority and power. These groups, which have nothing to do with the democratic demands and expectations of the Syrian people, are able to follow their unique and radical agendas by taking advantage of this chaos on the other side of our border. It is not possible to accept and explain the accusations expressed by our opposition parties from time to time that our country tolerates the existence and activities of these groups. With a second Afghanistan in our region born, there is no doubt that our country will be affected most by the negatives that the cult-based conflict and violent environment will expose in terms of regional stability. Yet it is certain that bringing up such unjust and false accusations does not serve our country's interests. Naturally, our most important priority in this process is to preserve the safety of our citizens and our lands. It would be unthinkable for us to tolerate even a citizen to lose his life or to be injured and to be subjected to any violation of our sovereignty. In the context of military strategy, it is important to provide effective deterrentism and to demonstrate determination in the situations in which it is necessary. In this framework, however, we also feel that major tasks have been dropped on our political parties under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Because national security is a matter that is directly linked to the state and the nation's stay, and therefore has to be above parties. When it comes to the well-being of our citizens and our territorial integrity, we need to put aside political and ideological differences and even prejudices and be united as representatives of the nation as always. Since its establishment, the EC PARTI has believed that a foreign policy, which cares about keeping our national interests at the highest level, who serves to heal the wounds of humanity, who can look not in one direction, but in the other, make friends who don't make enemies, that absorb universal values, will create added value for our nation, our region and our world, will serve the search for regional peace and stability to be dominated at all times. However, Turkey's friendly hand cannot be deserved by communities, governments and leaders whose hands are stained with the blood of hundreds of thousands. We cannot cooperate with those who condemn their country to destruction in order to protect their power. We can't just stand by and watch those who persecute their people. Because all the tyrants in the history of the world have targeted their own people and then their surroundings. Those who remain silent today will have no right to complain when they are exposed to the aggression of these regimes and supporters. The problem in Syria has features that could have far more serious developments. Therefore, it is imperative that the international community and Turkey's domestic politics strive to resolve this problem quickly, not to seek their own interests from the continuation of the problem at this stage. I couldn't really describe this thesis as a war thesis to a colleague of mine who spent years in foreign policy and should know exactly what was what. This is not a dissertation of war, I can make it clear from here. It is only one more year that the authority of our great House has been extended because of the conditions that made it necessary to be granted that authority. The Supreme Assembly has approved statements from the Prime Minister on many issues, authorising the government. After no notice, Turkey did not enter a war. While such a situation exists, I do not find it right to describe this thesis as the first war thesis at the opening of the Assembly, and I consider it a statement that could lead to a false opinion in the Turkish public. Our priorities in Syria are the restoration of peace and stability, the rapid launch of a political transition to the establishment of democracy in accordance with the legitimate demands of the people, and the protection of Syrian sovereignty, territorial integrity and national unity. Turkey plays an active and leading role in international efforts to find a political and peaceful solution to the conflict on the basis of these priorities. However, we have all seen closely that the Syrian regime does not understand the language of peace, that it tries to exploit all good efforts and initiatives so far. Thus, Turkey demonstrates its contribution to the political solution, regardless of its facts and the possibility of danger, and without fail, while on the other hand, it is important that it prepares itself for all scenarios against national security and threats to protect our country's basic rights and interests, and takes steps ahead of time and in the proper measure. Turkey today is ready and capable of handling any negative scenario that may arise in terms of its experience and driver's license, moral responsibility and military, economic and physical possibilities. Mr. President, with these debates, to ensure our country's safety against possible dangers, to ensure effective protection and protection of Turkey's high interests in the course of the crisis and then possible developments, according to the course of events, to prevent a difficult situation, the swift and dynamic policy of Turkey's Parliament, which has been issued on October 4th, 2013, is to grant our approval as the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, which has been issued in order to ensure that Turkish Armed Forces should be sent to foreign countries in a manner of recognition and deployment.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0027par0423	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. On behalf of the government, National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0427	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to explain the reason for the statement given by the Turkish Parliament on October 4th, 2012, for the move of the Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries and for the extension of the warrants given to our government over a year. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on 4 October 2012, our perceived threat to the protection of our citizens and border security in the face of Syrian threats and attacks has also increased today. None of the conditions present in the environment where the thesis was taken have improved, on the contrary, increased risks and threats. The number of people who died during the past period as a result of the violence and destruction policy of the Esed regime in Syria has drawn closer to 150,000 people, 2.1 million from Syria to other countries, and 5 million displaced. Human drama affects not only Syria, but also the security and stability of the region. The environment of the regime's aggressive policies has become a serious national security issue for Turkey. The military attacks of the Esed regime against their own people have led to mass migrations to our country and other neighbouring countries and a human drama. Since 2011, 14 tents have been established, including four of them in Hatay, two in Şanlıurfa, three in Gaziantep, and one in Kahraman, Adıyaman, Osmaniye, Adana and Mardin; and two in Milis and one in Şanlıurfa, Malatya, Hatay and Gaziantep. The number of refugees in our country's camps and container cities has already exceeded 200,000. Mr. President, upon the turning of conflict and conflict into a civil war in Syria, the actions of the Esed regime in front of the international community have gained a property that violates international law and undermines human dignity and conscience. The latest example of these attacks is the chemical weapon attack that targeted civilians in the suburbs of Damascus on August 21st. The chemical weapons attack, which resulted in the deaths of about 1,400 innocent people, was reviewed by the UN delegation, and the review board's report dated 13 September 2013 confirmed once again that chemical weapons were used in Syria and international law had been violated.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0029par0431	We don't know who did it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0030par0432	Mr. Secretary, who used it?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0433	On 14 September 2003, Russia and the United States agreed that the chemical weapons and chemical weapons used in the production of chemical weapons would be destroyed in the shortest time and in the most rapid way in the first half of 2014 under international supervision. This agreement is important for Syria's next chemical weapons attack and preventing chemical weapons from falling into terrorist groups. This agreement was issued by the United Nations Security Council on September 27, 2013, and was issued a decree of 2118 in order to ensure life within the framework of international law. This decision clearly states that the use of chemical weapons in Syria is a threat to international peace and security and a clear violation of international law. The United Nations Security Council has made a decision demanding that Syria comply with all decisions made by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, prohibiting the use of chemical weapons, development, development, production, stockpiling, directly or indirectly transfering to other states or non-governmental actors, groups. We support, of course, the destruction of these weapons as soon as possible, in a precise and verifiable way. But it must not be forgotten that the atrocities in Syria did not begin with the use of chemical weapons, but would not end with the destruction of these weapons. As stated in the UN Security Council's decision, we will continue to support any efforts to stop the human tragedy in Syria, which will ensure that those responsible for the chemical weapons attack will be accounted for. Mr. President, our policy against Syria is based on the protection of Syria's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and the legal rights of the Syrian people. In this way, the suffering of the Syrian people will cease and the region will be stable again. A Syria that is at peace with its own people and its neighbours and its integrity and sovereignty is important to us as well as to the region. We will continue to end the events in Syria as soon as possible, to restore peace and stability, to begin the political process that meets the legitimate demands of the people, and to contribute to efforts to preserve Syria's sovereignty, territorial integrity and national unity. During no time, Turkey is at the centre of international meetings on Syria, not outside the process, but directly in the process itself. The international community has failed to show its sensitivity to the destruction of chemical weapons in Syria until now to violence against innocent people who continue in Syria, to take measures that would deter the ruling of Esed, who were indifferent, disregarding rights, law, and universal values from resorting to violence. Mr. President, the security risks our country faces in the face of Syrian-based developments are unfortunately not limited to people who are based on our borders, but to a level that threatens the safety of our citizens living in the border area. As it is known, the hostile position from Syria reached the highest level when an unarmed aircraft carrying out a test and training mission from our country on 22 June 2012 was shot down in an international airspace 13 miles outside of the Syrian city of Lazkiye, Syria without warning, and two pilots were killed as a result of the attack. On September 20, 2012, the Akçakkale district of Şanlıurfa, has been targeted by Syria for several times, and five of our citizens, women and children, have died as a result of the fall of artillery shootings on 3 October 2012. On 11 February 2013, 13 of our citizens were killed as a result of the explosion of a bomb-loaded vehicle by Syria trying to enter our country from our Cilve-Eye Border Gate. On May 2, 2013, 12 of our citizens were injured, including a police officer who was killed by a long-barreled rifle fired by Syria. On 11 May 2013, in Reyhanlı district of Hatay district of Hatay, 52 of our citizens lost their lives and more than 100 others were injured in a terrorist attack linked to intelligence units of the Syrian regime. Since 20 September 2012, the number of artillery, mortars, rockets, and ammunitions that have been shot across the border by Syria has reached 69. In addition, trafficking in Syria, which faces the economic crisis due to civil war, has become a serious means of income. There has been frequent armed conflict between members of the Turkish Armed Forces and Syrian smugglers, which poses additional risks in border security as well as in the country's economy. Mr. President, the Esed regime in Syria, which ignores universal values and is not afraid to use any methods or weapons that are contrary to international norms, has made the relatively stable environment more fragile based on sensitive balances in the Middle East. Those who are not Syrian, who are near the regime or who are fighting against the regime are taking the conflict environment in Syria to the extent of a sectal war. This is not only damaging the struggle for freedom and democracy of the Syrian people, but an extremely dangerous development for regional peace and security. The civil war feeds radicalism and extremism within the country, leading the people to radical camps. Civil wars threaten not only the country of civil war, but regional and global stability as well. We have seen these examples in Afghanistan, Somalia, and Iraq, and we continue to see them. Sadly, developments in the neighbouring country of Syria, where we have a 911km-long border, provide shelter for terrorist organisations and illegal structures. In light of the covert agendas of these terrorist organisations, which have no interest in the democratic demands and expectations of the Syrian people, his actions against civilian elements also undermine the legitimate rights and search of opposition groups fighting against the regime. Mr. President, good lawmakers, our top priority as a government is the safety of our citizens and our country. It is not natural to accept the loss or injury of even a citizen. With the authority vested in our government last year and the rules of engagement changing in the context of security risks from Syria, any measures necessary for the safety of our country and our people are being taken, there is no need to test our country's determination in this matter. We also demonstrated our determination on 16 September, when the Syrian regime helicopter, which violated our airspace and continued this violation despite our warnings, was neutralized by the elements of the air force. In the event of a similar situation, I would like it to be known that we will not hesitate to exercise our rights due to international law against any open and near threat from Syria. We've taken the necessary measures to protect our country's basic rights and interests, and we'll continue to take them from now on. Mr. President, members of parliament, the speakers on this bench have made different comments about the Reyhan attack. The attack in Reyhanlı has been determined that the perpetrators provided logistical and financial support for the people who carried out the explosion, brought the explosives from Syria, changed the equipment from the vehicles, detonated vehicles at the scene of the explosion, and aided and abetted these individuals, as well as officers in the current Syrian regime's intelligence service, and again linked to the terrorist organization. Our nation also knows who was guided by those involved. 20 of the people involved in this case have been arrested and eight others are wanted. In his statement to the prosecution, one of these defendants showed that even today, he had lost both his sight and lack of human values, enough to say that he would not hesitate to do the same. Mr. President, good lawmakers, we don't look at the identity of anyone we've helped, we don't ask for the identity of the victim. We don't want war, we want to stop the present war. I'd like to read a speech made by a representative of a group in parliament at a meeting on the deployment of Patriot missiles in Turkey last year, to show how wrong it is in front of history, how time has justified us: if this is the military motive given by the Minister for the establishment of the weapons systems in Turkey: Ballistic missile skills and chemical weapons stock. Now, as for these chemical weapons stocks, I really think it's a fairy tale, because when it comes to Gulf Wars 1st and 2nd, the entire Western press, especially the Pentagon, has systematically spoken of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The war's over, Iraq's ruined, but one weapons of mass destruction haven't been found. Have they not asked the man who said this? Have you not seen Aleppo? Have you not seen that 5,000 innocent people were killed with chemical weapons? But political blindness has not seen this massacre in Aleppo, nor has it seen the massacre in Damascus today, nor has it seen the massacre in Aleppo. I'm continuing his speech, and so is the chemical weapons warehouses in Syria's hands. Now, time has shown that Syria has delivered its list of chemical weapons to the United Nations, and everyone has seen that Syria is one of the most chemical weapons stockpile in the world. History has proved us right. After a certain time has passed before those who call it a rumor, who have not seen Aleppo, who have not seen the Aleppo, who have not seen the Aleppocee, who have not seen Damascus, there is no doubt today that history will prove us right again. Another friend of ours said that Turkey's policy was excluded, that Turkey was incompatible with the world. Turkey, on the other hand, is at the center of all political processes related to Syria. Look, on February 16, 2012, the United Nations General Assembly ruled that 137 countries that we had led and joined have condemned the Syrian government and found the Syrian government responsible for the decision on Syria. 137 people on one side, 12 rejections on the other. Now, there are 12 rejects here, and then there are 137, and we're saying that 5 is bigger than the world, so there's no doubt that 137 is greater than 12. To those who continue to be with the 12 dignitaries, our nation will show the support or support needed when it comes to it. Again on 3 August 2012, the United Nations General Assembly issued a decision concerning Syria, which included us in 133 acceptances, 12 rejections; 12 in the previous one. Now I ask you, is it the world that says "12 rejections" or the world that stands alone in Syrian policy, with 137 or 133 countries? We're on the side of 133 countries. Again at the United Nations General Assembly of May 15, 2013, the decision regarding Syria was 107 acceptances, 12 rejections; again the rejections remain unchanged.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0031par0454	You're the only ones who want to fight. You want to fight.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0455	We're on the side of 107 countries.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0032par0456	No one wants a war but you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0457	As the world is greater than the five, it is greater than 107, 133, and 137 than the twelve. So, what's the problem? In the United Nations, Russia, or China, which supports Syria, has the right to veto the United Nations, paralyzing, inoperating the United Nations, causing violence to continue in Syria, and in many other parts of the world. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, whether it's Al Qaeda, Al-Qaeda, or El Nusra, or PKK, are all terrorist organizations, no matter what their name is. Do not kill any innocent, we do not distinguish one from the other.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0033par0459	Then why do you support it? They're taking all the support out of you. Of course, don't give the General Assembly the wrong information.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0460	We were not with Bezar Esed, nor did we guide those who went to Bezar Esed. If you stand next to Bashir Esed, you will not see who is using chemical weapons.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0033par0462	Go and speak to the people at Ceylanpınar, in Redtepe.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0463	Mr. President, good lawmakers, today's conditions for the adoption of last year's motions have become more dramatic in terms of whether the number of asylum seekers will increase in terms of life loss or in terms of the increase in trafficking, as well as in the extent of the chemical weapons threat to open and near threat. We feel that a statement to the Parliament should be accepted in the environment where threats and risks are increasing for our country. The need for the requirement of the thesis has not been reduced since October 4, 2012, but on the contrary, it has increased. For this reason, supporting our thesis on the approval of the High Assembly will contribute to the protection of the interests of the country.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0034par0464	What interests?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0028par0465	We, as we said before, do not want war, we want the war to be stopped. Therefore, the ongoing conflict in Syria, present-to-be-compensating situation in the future, keeping our country prepared for possible risks and threats, ensuring that the country's security be maintained during the crisis and then possible developments will protect the interests of Turkey and in the course of an effective policy followed by a swift and effective policy, and I ask that the Constitution of Turkey's Parliament, as of October 4th, 2012, be granted further support of Article 1025 of the Constitution, by the country, by the law, by the amount, by the amount, by the amount, by the government, and by the record, by which the Turkish Armed Forces are sent to foreign countries and by the necessary arrangements to be established, by the government, and by the government, by the time.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0035par0467	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0036par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0035par0469	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0036par0470	Mr. Secretary gave me some information that misled the General Assembly during his speech regarding government policies. There's a corrective explanation for...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0035par0471	Do you want to make a statement or do you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0036par0472	No, he gave the General Assembly false information. He also said that the information we told him wasn't true.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0035par0473	Okay, here you go. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0036par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. Really, it's amazing when you listen to the Minister. Now, his entire conversation is full of contradictions. It says terrorist groups, terrorist organizations have closed a border 910km. But when you look at their relationship with the AKP government, there's already a self-degradating conversation going up there. Now, there's no one who doesn't know that the AKP government for Al Nusra and Al Qaeda groups, most of the border, has publicly supported. It doesn't matter if you reject it here or distort the truth. All Middle Eastern countries, all countries of the world know of your relationship with Al-Qaeda (Al-Qaeda). Go to Ceylanpınar, go to Viranşehir, go to Kızıltepe. We asked about TIGEM land there, tell us who used those TIGEM properties. Ask the people of Ceylanpınar what comes to mind when the power goes out. Look at who's getting logistical support, going across the street, fighting, coming back again. Look at your deputies, your ministers, who they're taking pictures with. You can't just come in here and say Al-Qaeda is a terrorist, like none of us have any brains. You can't just say, "Al-Qaeda is a terrorist." In this regard, you must immediately cut the support you have given these gangs, take new measures regarding border security, those barriers that have been completely removed. You also refer to the Kurds as using these terrorist organizations. The High Kurdish Council is now at the border with the will of the People's Parliaments, Serekaniya, Kobani and Afrin. The High Kurdish Council is the will of the Kurdish people there. You and your government have already established that the will is not a terrorist by accepting Mr. Salih Müslim. So there's either an anomaly in your foreign policy or there's an anomaly in what you're saying.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0037par0482	Thank you. Mr. Vural, you asked for your word.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0038par0484	I just want to say something here, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0037par0485	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0038par0488	The government held very important talks on Syria. They said they gave information on the use of chemical weapons, went to Paris, but the Turkish Parliament MPs were not informed of these developments. I mean, I really want to share that the government hasn't given the Grand National Assembly of Turkey any healthy information about all these developments.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0039par0489	The ministers don't know either.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0038par0490	So with this information, the government wants to use cross-border operations, the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, but really evidence of the use of chemical weapons at the meeting in Paris today... if you want a closed session, let's do a closed session, but the size of the chemical threat comes from whom, El Nusra in Syria, Al Qaeda in Syria, please inform the MPs on how the threats of al-Qaeda are directed to Turkey, so that they can act on their conscience. But these... you haven't really given me the right reasons.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0040par0491	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Now we've come to speak for ourselves. First speaker on behalf of the person, İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk. Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0041par0499	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made it very clear that our views on the government's decision to send the armed forces to Syria, the Republican People's Party's views, on behalf of our party's group, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Logoglu has made it clear, and I will not go into detail. There are a few points I'd like to point out, and I'd like to bring them to your attention. First of all, the timing of this thesis is not a good time, it's not a matter of urgency. Look, you see, the world has come up with a different way of dealing with this, and the international community has come up with a different way of dealing with it. The first attempt to purge Syria from chemical weapons is to resolve this. When we say Syria, like the Syrian regime, other groups in Syria, many of whom are terrorists, also have chemical weapons, and will be tried to remove them. In the meantime, 2nd place in Geneva. The Geneva Conference will be held and a peaceful solution to the problem will be sought through negotiation, a military intervention is now pushed back from today to tomorrow. Oh, if something happens from today to tomorrow and we need to act quickly, the 92nd article of our Constitution allows it, Mr. President is in charge. There is one other thing: we, our friends, our spokesman, say there is no warrior approach. But sending soldiers shows a warrior approach, it is not right to take a warrior approach. See, the triggering of fault lines in Syria, Turkey and the region is against Turkey's national interests. The gap between Turkey's capacity and the dreamy foreign policy of the AKP government is deep. If there is an attack by Syria, Turkey has the right to defend itself not only under Article 92 of our Constitution, but also under Article 51 of the United Nations Mother Convention. Well, then you wait, and if there's a rush, there might be a sending of troops, and if that happens, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will meet in an hour, and we'll make that decision. Why are we making this decision today? Now, I said I wanted to point out some of the issues, and one of them said in his speech, and one of them said in his speech, Mr. Secretary, who spoke on behalf of the AKP Group, and he said in his speech: "There is a statement on the counter, and I read this statement to you, and he says...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0042par0504	Mr. Orator, wait a minute... Congressmans, if you'll please speak outside in the lobby, we'd like to hear from the minister. Thank you. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0043par0508	Mr. President, we'd appreciate it if you'd give the same warning to the Council of Ministers, because the ministers are not listening. There's talk of war, ministers lobbying there.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0042par0509	We'll give you the time, sir, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0044par0510	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Over the course of the crisis, I read again:...in the course of the crisis and in the direction of what may be a new development, to effectively protect and protect Turkey's high interests, and to help follow a fast and dynamic policy to avoid a difficult situation in the future, according to the course of events. What does that mean, guys? Look, what did last year's paper say you wanted extended? It says: "This is what it says in advance. It has reached a stage that poses serious threats and risks to our national security. With that respect, the need to act quickly and quickly and take the necessary measures against additional risks and threats that may lead to our country has been necessary. In this frame, the border, the sun, and the time... are going to go. Now, instead of taking rapid measures against threats that could lead to our country, we're thinking of helping Turkey to maintain, protect, protect its high interests in the direction of possible developments, help to follow a fast and dynamic policy that, in the future, cannot be compensated for, we're thinking of making a preemptive attack? Is that what this means? We, not too long before the Parliament took a vacation, will remember that we changed the 2nd amendment of the Turkish Armed Forces Civil Service Law concerning the military. There I was again, this time, in a speech on behalf of the group, critical of the release of the declaration for the national defense. He says: "Soldiership is a duty to teach and do the art of war for Turkish youth." For what is it necessary to teach and do it? It's for Homeland Defense. There's a home defense here, that's an important detail. Why did this happen? You have to be very careful with that. When we look at another point, we see a statement in the presentation of this thesis, saying that Turkey is the country most affected by any attack by the regime and the uncertainty and chaos in Syria. This is a serious discovery and this is a confession. Dear friends, look, Turkey has brought the government's wrong policies in Syria to this position. If the government had acted with the international community from the beginning in Syria, perhaps less than 130,000 people would have died in Syria today. What Turkey has done is to organize the opposition, then train it, then arm it, then coordinate it, and then fail. The Turkish border has piled up a lot of terrorist organizations, irregular organizations. From Al Qaeda to Al Nusra, Iraq has been recruiting from Turkey many organizations that have never had any relations with Turkey, taking them to war, fighting there, threatening Turkey, taking responsibility for the attack on Reyhanlı. After that, we're going to take off. We're going to confess in our own text. We're going to agree. Now, there's something I want from you guys, all of you, and especially from the Justice and Development Party Group. Now, this Syria thing is a very serious issue, but it's not just the Syrian issue, it's our foreign policy at a very critical point, it's never been like this. We've worked in foreign policy for nearly 40 years; we've never seen this situation. Now, should we talk about Turkish foreign policy, Syria, once a year, once a year, friends? We need to open a general discussion for this, and when we open a general discussion, you reject it immediately, and that's what's being said about whether or not the general meeting will be held. You ask for general discussion, we sit down, we talk, we put Turkish foreign policy on the table. Look, Mr. Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister says that the People's Party of the Republic complains about us when they leave the country. No, we don't complain about it, but we deal with it, we stop it, we stop it, don't tell you, you can't tell the Prime Minister of Turkey that way. It's not a complaint, but if you want us to follow your policy, agree with it, support it, we need to make a contribution to it, we need to understand where we're going, at least where we're going, what are we doing? We don't know any of this, Mr. Secretary of State has written a book in his own way, he's following the book, at the end of that book, the El Nusra, whatever it is, it's all coming down on us. So, what we want from you is for me to at least -- you guys take the lead, open up a general discussion. The general meeting doesn't necessarily mean anything against your own government, let him tell us here, let's discuss it. I'm a member of the Foreign Commission, we're going to have a meeting later, we're going to elect a Mr. President, we're probably going to elect the same Mr. President, but we've asked Mr. President several times, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs to come and tell this Foreign Affairs Commission. What kind of foreign policy is that, guys? When there's a foreign policy like this, we're going to run into each other with meaningless conversations, meaningless problems, and we're going to start a new legislature, and we're going to have three elections in this new era of life, and in the meantime, we're going to have to be able to work together and work together. To do that, you have to understand these policies yourself, learn them yourself, and then we all have to discuss them together. I don't think it's fair to say that there's a foreign policy that three people, five people, have done. And I don't see this thesis as admissible in any way in this Parliament. He comes to this thesis all the time, and if necessary, he's passed away. Mr. AKP spokesman says that the Americans said it was used by the regime. Yes, that's what the Americans say, and the Russians say something else. The Russians also came through Turkey. He says, "I hope it's not true." We're not looking at the American, we're not looking at the Russian, we're looking at our reference, we're looking at the United Nations. The U.N. spokesman say that chemical weapons were used there, but they don't say who used them. So, chemical weapons were used from both sides. We're supposed to be friendly to both sides, but we have to defend a peaceful solution in the direction of the international community while we're being aggressive. The peaceful solution isn't about being alone, numbers, numbers, Mr. Secretary, it's about wanting. France wanted war, it didn't; we wanted war, it didn't. So, now, let's try to keep this peace. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0045par0523	Thank you, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0046par0524	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0045par0525	Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0046par0526	Mr. President, Mr. Ranger has made some statements regarding our Secretary of State. I want to correct that information.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0047par0527	Have the Secretary of State come in and explain himself.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0045par0528	Here, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0048par0529	Mr. President, power of attorney doesn't apply here. The Minister is there.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0049par0532	I'd like to brief the lawmakers on something. Mr. Foreign Minister knew that the thesis would be discussed today, but unfortunately, in the Balkans, he had to attend a meeting within the framework of Southeast Europe, and he wished that I convey to you this message, and our Foreign Minister expressed that he was ready to come and inform the General Assembly at the level that Mr. Korutk was talking about. They will also come to the first Foreign Commission meeting after the festival, and we will discuss these issues with the Foreign Commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0050par0536	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0051par0537	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0050par0540	Mr. President, Mr. Volcano, I don't understand what Article of the Civil Code you've promised to the country. There's been an assessment of Mr. Secretary of State. He wanted to make a speech on behalf of the Secretary of State, and you saw fit to do so. The Civil Code won't allow it. If the government is here to pick on the government, Mr. Secretary of State can answer that. I understand you want to perform a more democratic government here. You need to make promises to anyone who demands promises, and you want to make them happen.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0051par0542	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0050par0543	I'm putting that on the record, Mr. President. In today or in future sessions, our group will ask you to do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0051par0545	Thank you. I'm just trying to apply the Civil Code. The second speaker is Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0052par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable lawmakers are actually the result of an AKP foreign policy that is bankrupted in this thesis. In fact, the national mind reveals that we have entered the strategic swamp with a completely passive perspective, far from the benefits and axis. Without a doubt, if there have been risks and threats in our close geography towards Turkey as a result of AKP's policies, we, as the National Movement Party, want the government, again, to use the opportunities that Turkey needs to use in this regard, taking its unity and integrity first. It's Turkey that matters, it's the safety of our nation. If we put the error of AKP policies at a separate point, and he says he wants to use this opportunity to ensure that Turkey does no more harm, then let's look at it as the National Movement Party, and use this opportunity to eliminate risks and threats against Turkey. It's not possible for us to take the events of this geography that we've developed on the Syrian axis alone. In this regard, we need to evaluate it in historical perspective and realize that the target is going into a structure that is Turkey. Those who started the break-up of the Ottoman Empire under the name of the song still want to carry out their plans, projects under different names today. Theological, economic, political reasons may lie beneath this, but we need to look at this point that we've come to today in history and interpret it accordingly and figure out how to achieve Turkey's interests. Of course, at the point where we are here today, in 1916, when we consider the agreement of Britain and France to share the Ottoman territories with the secret agreement and to shape the Middle East, where Syria is today, and their attempts to build the great Armenia and Kurdistan in this geography, in 1918, Wilson's principles are again the main goal of creating new autonomys in our geography today, as well as of Turkey, which we have taken into consideration in the 1920s of the Sevr Peace Agreement Against Armenians and Kurdistan in our geography. This project is called the Great Middle East Project. The Great Middle East Project is a project to change the political geography of 22 Islamic countries, where the Prime Minister is Co-Chair. The goal and goal of this project, which will change political geography, are two main reasons: the security of energy and the security of Israel. In order to create a political environment to ensure Israel's security and energy security, the nations in this geography are sought to adopt a cold war strategy based on ethnic identity and sects. Therefore, we must carefully assess that events in Syria can ultimately lead to us in a perspective that includes Turkey. We've broken this game with the National Liberation War, and we've put these plans on the shelf, but today, again, it's clear and clear that we're dealing with a mindset that wants to transform the republic and the nation that we built in this geography again within the framework of projects a hundred years ago. Now, in the bipolar world order, those who want to move away from the balance of power and create power over the balance of countries are scratching ethnic identities and sects. What happened in Iraq and what happened in Syria is actually the policy of this Great Middle East Project. In 1996, the strategic policy called "A Clean Break" (A Clean Break), designed to ensure Israel's safety, is deepened with AKP policies today as well. Look, on that day, in the politics of those dates, he says the following: peace for peace. If you want peace, I'm making attempts to restore peace for you too. So, that means that Israel wants to bring inner peace into the inner balance within the countries close to it, into a new balance, according to ethnic and sects, and that's the only way I can assess the security of Israel. At this point that we are here today, Israel must ensure that Turkey, along with Turkey, weakens Syria, brakes and takes it back. On the one hand, Turkey says that the siege of Syria on the Israeli axis is very important for Israel's security, as well as for the use of ethnic and sects for the Syrian regime, to move more freely across the border and weaken Syrian rule. At this point that we're here today, this policy that Turkey has actually implemented is a direct step in the new perspective for the strategic purposes of Israel in 1996, so let's not fool anyone. Regarding these issues today, it is also expected to be done in 1996 if Turkey's borders have become a land of people who have acted against Syria, if they are supported strategically, militaryly and operationally by Turkey. So today's policy is to ensure the safety of Israel. As a matter of fact, at a meeting held by Shimon Peres and Hillary Clinton at Preston University, Syria's division into a federative structure in the form of Shia, Kurd and Sunni could be a solution. It is clear and clear that they are of great importance to the safety of Israel. Now, at this point, where we are today, we are waiting to see what policy Turkey is following in the face of a policy that will ensure the safety of Israel. Where is Turkey's interest? What kind of structure is Turkey after? What are Turkey's basic features? In Iraq, during the intervention of Iraq, our red lines were unfortunately destroyed today. Iraq's energy sources belonged to the Iraqis, so we eliminated it. We ignored the Turkmen. Iraq's political union, unfortunately, has become unrecognizable to the government today. This is where we come in today, unfortunately, against the risks and threats of Syria, Turkey admits that it cannot use its soft strength and initiative. In this regard, Turkey should be following policies that will actually use its soft power in this geography to ensure its transformation from within, but unfortunately, it has come to this day with policies that will rationalise outside interference. Of course, at this point where we have arrived, the government has legitimised the PKK and PYD formation in Syria within a year, seeing PKK and PYD formation as a risk to the north of Syria. Yes, the formations in Syria raise risks and threats to Turkey, the use of chemical weapons is a threat. As the National Movement Party, we believe that Turkey faces significant risks and threats with these wrong policies imposed by the AKP, but how should it protect Turkey in such an environment? To protect this, the AKP says I want to use the deterrent of Turkish Armed Forces for Turkey. In this case, we can't find it right that Turkey's hands are tied. If there is a deterrent of the threat of chemical weapons, if we're going to save our people from death, if Turkey is not going to become a part of the civil war in Syria, if we're going to prevent this internal conflict that will become a entity, if we have to stop it from happening to Turkey, then you know that the foreign policy that AKP has implemented, the AKP government has failed, it's over, it's over, it's reset. Now, -- Turkey is coming to the Grand National Assembly, it says -- I couldn't use the soft force with policies. Please, give me the deterrent of the Turkish Armed Forces, who have come before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to support me. In such a policy as the National Movement Party, Mr. Turkesh expressed limited authority for the use of Turkish Armed Forces elements to reduce risks towards Turkey, to deter it. The National Movement Party says Turkey first, we look at it as Turkey first, but with such foreign policy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you can't protect Turkey, you can't protect Turkey's unity.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0563	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0052par0564	It's clear and clear that you need to change this foreign policy.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0565	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0052par0566	My respects to all of you. God be with you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0568	Thank you. Congressmans, talks have been completed on the Prime Minister's thesis.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0054par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0571	Now, I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0054par0572	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0055par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0574	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0055par0575	I demand a brief speech from my position as independent proxy for the importance of the matter.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0576	Ladies and gentlemen, before we discuss the Prime Minister's thesis, I've made a statement about the procedure. The Prime Minister's statement was discussed according to the 72nd Article of the Charter, and the agreements were determined according to the first joke of 60. Therefore, I am unable to make promises to my fellow lawmakers who are seeking a word.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0056par0577	Mr. President, I'd like a word about the procedure.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0578	Now I'm going to have the thesis read and vote for you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0056par0579	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the procedure. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0053par0580	Here you go: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The conflict in Syria is regional and international...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0057par0583	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0058par0584	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0057par0585	Mr. President, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0586	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0057par0587	Sir, I have a supply. Now, Mr. Mahmut Tanal wants to speak to you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0589	Yeah, so I made my statement, said I couldn't promise... Please...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0057par0591	One second, sir, one second. Mr. President, you have just promised Mr. Volcano Bozır, even though he has no place in the Civil Code. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Volcano, that means you're promising Bozır to be part of the ruling party's group, even though it has no place in the Civil Code. If Mr. Mahmoud Tanal...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0593	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, if you read the 61st article of the Civil Code, you'll see why I promised Mr. President of Foreign Affairs Volcano Bozkir. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0057par0595	Mr. President, if you continue, I'm going to open a legal debate. Mr. President, you have to promise Mr. Mahmut Tanal.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0596	Here you go. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The conflict in Syria poses a growing threat to regional and international peace, security and stability. Our country feels this threat more and more closely every day.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0060par0599	I'm starting a formal debate. Mr. President, I reject your attitude. You have no right, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0600	Mr. Hamzacebi, I gave you my reason for not making any promises.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0060par0601	I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0602	I have explained the order of the taking of the word according to Article 61, and according to Article 69, all of it.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0061par0603	The 61st article doesn't say that.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0060par0604	There is no such thing in Article 61.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0605	I'm using my discretion, I'm not making any promises. Please take your seat, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0060par0608	Mr. President, there is no such thing in Article 61.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0610	Go ahead. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a matter of fact, so far, the number of citizens who have died in Syrian attacks has reached 71. The size of the immigration pressure on our country is increasing. The number of Syrians we have already hosted in our country is more than 500,000 in accordance with the existing brotherhood and neighbourly law of the Syrian people.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0060par0613	Bravo, congratulations, congratulations, bravo! I congratulate you for clapping for this democratic spirit! I condemn you, Mr. Gardendoor, and condemn your partisan approach! You don't look good, you don't look good on that bench.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0062par0614	The President of the Foreign Commission's post is now terminated, and the oldest member is also part of our party. I mean, that's not true either, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0059par0615	Go ahead. The number of displaced persons in Syria is estimated to be nearing 5 million. Under the regime's violence and persecution policies, it is likely to be faced with a larger mass migration movement, aimed at our borders at any moment and exerting pressure on our country. The Syrian mass migration movement also poses an indirect threat to our country as far as possible consequences. The regime also began using chemical weapons, in addition to heavy artillery and non-discriminate bombings, including ballistic missiles for the people, disregarding international law; lastly, more than 1,400 Syrian citizens lost their lives, including more than 1400 children, in an attack by chemical weapons in Damascus on 21 August 2013. This attack was a crime against humanity, which was confirmed on 16 September 2013 by the United Nations on August 21, 2013 in the Report of Chemical Weapons Use in the Gota District of Damascus.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0063par0618	Mr. President, look, according to Article 63, I'd like to open a discussion of procedure due to your attitude. Your attitude is against the 63rd Amendment. I'm asking you, so you're disrupting the regular Parliament work, reading Article 63.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0064par0619	Not like this, not like a national team, you can't clap for that!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0063par0620	I mean, you guys are making the coven nervous, come on!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0065par0621	Here you go. The international law, including chemical weapons, of the Syrian regime, has also raised a high level of imminent and serious threat to Syria's neighbours, especially our country, as well as to its use of weapons banned by the Anti-Cuffing, Poisoning and Similar Gasses and Bacterial Tools in the War. The course of developments in Syria has brought measures aimed at preventing and deterring such weapons to a necessary level for our national security interests. Developments show that the Syrian regime has reached the point where it can use any method or weapon that goes against international norms. Turkey is the country most affected by any attack by the regime and the uncertainty and chaos in Syria.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0066par0624	Mr. President, Article 63 is an authoritarian decree. You're gonna have to give it to me after you want it to be formal, so right now, no one understands what your friend is reading.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0065par0625	Here you go. On September 27, 2013, the United Nations Security Council's 2118 decision confirmed that chemical weapons used in Syria pose a threat to international peace and security. All developments mentioned above require that measures be taken in accordance with our rights due to international law should be taken against any open and near threat to our national security from Syria. With these appeals, to ensure the safety of our country against possible dangers, to protect and protect Turkey's high interests effectively in the course of the crisis and then possible developments, to ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces will be sent to foreign countries in order to ensure that they will not be able to face a difficult situation in the future, according to the progress of events, to ensure that a swift and dynamic policy is followed by a swift and dynamic policy, and I shall extend the Constitution by a period of 4/10/10/10th and a period of age, to be recognised and appointed by the Turkish Armed Forces on the basis of foreign countries. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0067par0632	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0065par0633	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Hamzacebi, please, I'm here to see Tanal.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0067par0634	Look, just a second, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0065par0635	Mr. Tanal, did you want a word on the procedure?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0068par0636	This is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0065par0637	Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0069par0638	Mr. President, Article 63 of the Civil Code is very clear. I've just invited you to comply with the rules of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and if you don't accept this invitation, you'll have to accept my request to open a formal debate based on the second joke of the same clause, you don't have the right to appreciate it. I'm filing a formal debate on your attitude, I demand it.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0070par0639	Against...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0071par0640	I want word against word.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0072par0641	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0073par0642	What attitude, I'm sorry, what attitude?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0074par0643	Mr. Volcano, you promised Bozır to go against the Civil Code, but then you did not respond well to Mr. Mahmut Tanal.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0073par0644	I understand, thank you. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0075par0646	Mr. President, I want your word in your favor. Apparently, you're going to open up a legal debate, and I'd like to take your word for it, but right now you can't open up a legal debate based on Article 63. Because the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is continuing its work. Only someone would want to argue about inviting you on the agenda. If inviting you to the agenda of the first joke is to discuss the issues on the agenda, you can say yes to the opening of a formal discussion based on the second joke. You're talking about the thesis, it's almost over, you're re-reading the thesis, and we've gone to a vote.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0076par0647	We didn't.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0077par0648	We didn't.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0078par0649	We didn't.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0079par0650	As for Mr. Volcano Bozır, in his speech to the Republican People's Party representative, the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission has repeatedly called for a meeting of the Foreign Minister, but he has made a statement to the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which is what you have promised. In that sense, the 63rd article does not allow you to open a legal debate.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0080par0651	And do you know why you promised better than Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0081par0652	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0079par0653	We've taken a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0080par0654	Mr. President, it's not right for you to be pressured by the majority's will.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0082par0655	I want a word against you, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0083par0656	Dear Elitaş, my dear friends, I've explained my position, you're demanding a formal debate, I'm opening a discussion of the procedure.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0080par0657	Mr. President has decided.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0083par0658	Against Baluken, Tanal; in favor of Elitaş, Recep Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0084par0660	Did you give it to me, sir?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0083par0661	First, in favor of my attitude, please. Mr. Baluken, did you want it against him or against him?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0085par0663	Against you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0083par0664	In favor of you, I take it?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0086par0665	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0083par0666	Here you are, Mr. Recep Special. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0087par0670	Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, if I take into consideration your position as a result of some talks in the debate we're discussing -- there has been a procedure debate. [[Noises from CHP rows]] It's the executive order of the Civil Charter, where the thesis will be discussed. Our Parliamentary Parliament is implementing the executive order of the Civil Code. Other than that, here, the new regulations, the violation of regulations, the application, putting a new set of provisions here will not add anything to the Parliament's work. Our Speaker's application is appropriate, it's true. Therefore, I declare to you all that we do not accept what is done and against what is done, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0083par0674	Akif Hamzacebi, come in against you. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0088par0677	Honorable MPs, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, who resides in the presidential office, have taken the partisan position he maintained there when he was Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group. (CHP clapping in rows) It's a shame to have this stand, it doesn't fit.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0089par0679	That doesn't sound like you!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0088par0680	I give thanks and respect to Mr. Mehmet Sütük. I mean, we miss his democratic attitude here.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0090par0681	A good stand up, a good talk show!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0088par0682	Mr. Osman Kuruturk has made an assessment of Mr. Foreign Minister. Mr. Volcano Bozır, I understand that he has a desire to become Minister of Foreign Affairs, but unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister has not been able to put him in that chair. He went straight to his place, and the Minister went to defend him.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0091par0684	He's brought us his greetings, his salutations!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0088par0685	The government is sitting here, and if there's an outrage against the government, Mr. Secretary of State will take your word for it. Mr. Bozır, it's none of your business, I wonder why you're so interested in taking this stand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I understand this request from Mr. Bozır, and my understanding is that the Speakership of Parliament, the Court, will make a promise to those who demand a word, as freely as possible. In fact, when Mr. Bozkır had promised Mr. President, I went out, put it on the record, and I said, "This is not true, but I understand that you are going to have a more democratic government." The late Ali Dinçer would have done it, God would have promised anyone who wanted it, he had a sense of government. I'm happy about that, too, so he'll promise every demand. E, regarding Mr. Mahmut Tanal's thesis on the Civil Charter, is this a declaration of war or a declaration of sending troops to foreign countries, according to what Article of the Civil Code we are discussing this? The office did not accept a request for a statement to which it would refer. Now, when the AKP Group demands a statement, you will accept it, and when the Republican People's Party Group demands a statement, you will not accept it, I condemn it, I condemn this antidemocratic attitude.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0092par0690	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0088par0691	I also consider it unfortunate on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that the Deputy President has made a start with such an antidemocratic attitude. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0092par0694	Now, in favor of Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0697	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're having a formal discussion, we need to act in accordance with procedure when we're having a discussion. According to Article 63 of the Civil Code, Mr. Hamzacebi, you have to promise me because this is the order of Article 63. So, Mr. Hamzacebi says: Mr. President, Mr. Bahçakılı, act according to this procedure while running the Grand National Assembly of Turkey there. As I see it, Mr. Gardenkapılı has experienced here for many years while acting as the group's vice president and has shown for the past two days as acting Speaker of Parliament, according to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. (EC PARTY) I congratulate him, and it suits him well, and I wish his success to continue. Mr. Hamzacebi, where is the right to condemn the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, when you should be acting in accordance with the regulations and regulations of the Civil Code? If you read the Civil Code well, Article 161 will clearly tell you what to do. If you have done so with the intention of insulting it by saying that it does not suit you or that it does not suit you there, I suggest you read the 161th Amendment of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0094par0700	He told me to punish him.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0701	Did you mean it as an insult? Did you say that to humiliate me? (CHP rows) Where do you get the blame?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0095par0702	Punish him!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0703	Only the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can make the indictment.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0096par0704	He's offering punishment.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0705	Look, to insult the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Vice President who has served as president...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0097par0706	Punish him, punish him!
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0707	Turkey bans members of the Grand National Assembly on this issue, and the group that it should most respect is its deputy presidents.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0098par0709	He said it as a matter of fact.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0710	Mr. Hamzacebi, if you're going to have a procedure discussion here, we need to follow the rules of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before we discuss the procedure. I asked Mr. Bozır....what purpose did you want to speak? On behalf of the Republican People's Party, the MP said in a speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party that the President of the Foreign Commission did not hold this meeting, even though he insisted on it. Mr. Bozır, from there, in order to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, perhaps he could have expressed it in his place, he could have made a statement.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0099par0712	Is there such a thing in the Civil Code? Is there such a thing in the Civil Code?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0713	The Deputy Speaker of Parliament has been kind, he has done this, but in what part of the Civil Code is there to state that this is being discussed according to the procedure as it continues? As the clerk began to read, you could at least be polite as a clerk and continue to study and allow the president to carry out a mission that he's in charge of. I think the president's attitude is appropriate. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0100par0717	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0101par0718	Mr. President, Mr. Elistash asked me something: did you mean it with the intention of insulting me?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0093par0719	If you say no, it'll be in the report.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0101par0720	Something I hadn't thought of, Mr. Elitaş said. I certainly can't think of an insulting intention, but I've just been critical of your attitude, and I certainly can't do that; I offer it to your knowledge.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0102par0721	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you for your kindness.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0103par0722	Mr. Elitaş knows it, but he's saying it because it's polemic, or he knows we're not saying it out of insult.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0102par0723	Against you, Idris Baluken, you have handed it over to Mr. Tüzzel. Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0104par0726	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I regret to see that your administration has not been fair since the House opened, that there has been no neutral presidency here. As long as such antidemocratic practices continue, the sovereignty of the nation will not prevail here. Dear MPs, we've been talking about Syria for two years. One hundred thousand dead, 500,000 refugees, experts on the consequences of all this heavy destruction, point to the government's responsibility. In the eyes of outsiders, the AKP has turned into a radical Islamic actor, not a moderate one. Wrongs are making AKP difficult everywhere. Yesterday, in Tunisia, Egypt, Sudan, the people are rioting and overthrowing governments. Such is the support of Al Qaeda, who orchestrated the Reyhan massacre.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0105par0728	Mr. President, we're talking about the procedure. They're talking about the procedure, Mr. President, you have to ask them to do it.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0104par0729	Look, valuable lawmakers, there are allegations that young people from Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's vocational and rehabilitation courses are being sent abroad to jihad. In the death of the son of the Syrian mufti, the death order was issued from Turkey. Intervention of Syria, intervention in Rojava, will also dynamite the peace of our country. Do you know what the spirit of time says? He says no to the AKP, and to the Syrian thesis that comes before us today, enough is enough. I call upon the esteemed MPs to listen to the voice of the people of Turkey, who say, "Peace, friendship, brotherhood and freedom" and vote "No" to this statement. Long live the brotherhood of the people.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0106par0732	Thank you. I'd like to point out that there's been no change in my attitude after the formal debate.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0107par0734	Mr. President, won't you promise me? The condemned Tanal (Tanal) has entered into the reports.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0106par0735	Let me hear your position, please. I want to know why you're taking promises.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0107par0736	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0106par0738	Guys, I don't hear it.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0107par0739	Mr. President, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0106par0740	Mr. Tanal, may I know what you're talking about?
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0107par0741	Dear President, the 129th article of our Civil Code is organizing the state of war. The 130th article of our Civil Charter is related to the sudden events of sending troops abroad. You'll appreciate that, with this review, from 1964 to 2012, there have been 57 copies. In these 57 documents, it is clearly written, according to what clause of the Civil Code. That's not in the paper that comes our way. You're going to say: "What are the legal consequences of this?" The legal consequences of this, Dear President, is that our Constitution... if this is the state of war...
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0106par0743	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanal, thank you. Your purpose is understood, it's on the record.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0107par0744	Look, first of all, I want you to explain to me what Article of the Civil Code this came in accordance with.
tbmm-2013-10-03sit02spe0106par0748	Congressmans, I'm going to vote on the Prime Minister's thesis I just read. Now, I submit the thesis to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted to the counter. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, there would be elections for commission membership on the agenda, but we will not be able to vote for commission membership on the agreement of political party groups, as a political party group has yet to report its member candidates to the presidency. Now, we're going to move on to "The Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with its 1st ranked First Amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture Forest and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports, where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is in line. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which ranked in the 4th place, in accordance with the Approvement of the Convention on Crimes in the Virtual Environment. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 8th 2013) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of legislation and proposals, according to the decision made by verbal question motions. I'm closing the merger to see you at 00.
