tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Adana MP Ali Halaman, who wants to talk about the problems of Adana and its districts. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the problems of Adana and its districts. Thank the President for giving me the opportunity to speak. I salute your high council with my best feelings. The reason I'm taking a stand is because of the long-standing political gap in our constituency of Adana, political actors being dismissed for political reasons, non-political, non-democratic political structures, I did it, I did it. Adana, who remains at the initiative of arrogant, untidy, self-interesting political groups, political clusters, is lost socially, economically and culturally. Therefore, unemployment is 25 to 30 percent. Turkey's fourth-largest city, and the 18th, under the occupation of political institutions, its gear, its tornado, its smoking chimney, its factory. Adana has returned to agriculture. Adana, under the shadow of imported agricultural products in agriculture, is having difficulty selling and marketing its products. Therefore, the farmer, the artist, the tradesman, the mover, says, "Doesn't anyone help us?" Congressmans, again, I've seen that when we meet one of the 15 districts of Adana, one of 21,000 people, 29 villages, 11 neighborhoods, 11 boroughs, the readers are very concerned about social, political, economic issues -- our recent situation, public investment, the situation of the tradesman, the condition of the farmer, every 3 people -- we've seen what's going to be called what's going to happen? When we meet with each three friends, what will Turkey be like? Will Turkey be divided? Will it be profitable for the people who killed 30 or 40,000 people? Why did the government get votes from us? Why didn't they ask us -- martyrs, veterans, homelands, flags, occupational march? They said, "What about injustice, lack of trust, corruption, corruption in the streets?" They said the farmer hasn't planted his field recently, that the tradesman has closed shop, that the student has grown confused, and that the Hurlbeyli was not especially planted, although its nojudu, lentils, beans were famous, its reasons are because of input prices and import products. Most of all, in Mersin, the trade market, at the point of the chickpeas and beans, the products of Hurlbeyli had been processed, but today they don't. Again, beets were so planted, the quotas were always asked to rise, but today you don't seem to have any beets. The farmer sows the beets, produces them, removes them, takes them to the buyer. They say, "We'll give them a bag of sugar in exchange." They say, "The money will be paid in four or five months." Does he plant beets under these conditions? There's no wheat, barley, oatmeal, they've given up, they've closed the offices. We couldn't deal with them because of mazot, fertilizer, medicine, so they don't plant them, even though tomatoes, potatoes, are essential products of the Floodbrain. For the past two years, the thermal power plant has been built -- the construction-enforcement model -- they've closed down four or five villages' properties cheaply, so the Hurlbey is unhappy. They say politicians are busy with the elite and are busy with their private affairs and that the government is not serving, that the package, coal, and beans are not enough, according to the vote, made by the trustees and municipalities alone. Therefore, it is said that indirect taxes are increasing and that removing the writing below the Ataturk busts... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...are we voting for the AKP to forgive the PKK? Appreciation for the great Turkish nation. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Burdur MP Bajram Özçelik, who wants to talk about the animal industry and the activities of the Alo Union in Burdur. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, the precious lawmakers, the land of lakes, roses and hearts of Burdur, the first of our Burdur, and the first of its brands, have been pre-eminent in marble in recent years, and Burdur beige has been opened to the world. There are now 400 million dollars in exports in marble, and the entire New York Airport is decorated with Burdur beige. Another brand is education city. In SBS, YGS and LYS, Turkey remains the top. We strongly recommend that those who want to give their children a good education and education bring their children to schools in our Burdur. Another brand is Burdur's animalism. In Burdur, all of it is recorded, and we produce about a thousand tons of milk and 363,000 tonnes of milk per year from 100 percent of the culture race of our animals. In recent years, we've been the first to pass the cold chain in milk, and in the most suitable parts of our villages, we've been building high prices and quality milk, and we've been raising the public health centers of our villagers at every opportunity to take a thousand pains from our aunts and sisters. As a result of studies, projects and training, we are under EU criteria for bacteria and somatic cells. In our province, milk is about six tons in a lactation. That's in European standards. The Burdur breeders are about 6,000 members of our Union and Turkey's breeding center, and the number of animals per business is 6 above the Turkish average. Our province is the strong side of animalism, where our country is favoured with the sales of 10,000 annual studs and the supply of breeding animals. Burdur animal manufacturers quickly got rid of romantic animalism. The restaurant type has become the engine industry of our county economy with $1.5 billion in non-profits in 2012, which is why it can't profit from restaurant-type livestock. Our greatest regret for Burdur County is 150 tonnes of milk per day in our province. So about 85 percent of the milk we produce is run in factories in our other provinces. Now, to get past that -- we're in the third district in the incentive -- we're waiting for the big companies to buy land in our new OSB. We've kept our parcels large, so we're waiting for Burdur 2nd OSB for the founding of the dairy industry. Also, from May 16th to May 19th, Burdur had 2nd place in Burdur. We're going to do the National Animal and Milk Industry Fair. As per demand, we know that this year's fair participation is high. Members of parliament, there are beauty contests in Burdur every year, but every year. Referee from Holland and Italy are competing studs. If you want to see the thrills of our growing sisters, our daughters, our children in these award-winning contests, we'll be expecting you to come to this studdling beauty contest. We've developed the "Hello Union" and "Hello Village" project, which has emerged in line with all of our Burdur's potential and vision. Project shareholders: Burdur Governorate, Foods, Agriculture Province Directorate, Association of Horse Beef Growers, Turkish TELEKOM, Mehmet Akif Ersoy University. For the opening of the project, the introductions of Burdur were of particular importance to our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehdi Eker. Our manufacturers and peasants deserve to take full advantage of the services produced using technology. With this project, our manufacturer will improve the quality of service. So, what's alo aliþi, alo villageman? A line was created at 444 2696. Earring studies are now being carried out through this line. Later, we'll do artificial seedling through this line. We're going to do support and incentives through this line. We'll report the monthly milk reports to the studry cattle growers' union through this line. Those who want to buy cow or heifers for sale will buy from this line. We'll have the slaughterhouses and the combinations, the decoys, the information systems and the reports filed on this line. I'd like you to advise all of you to enter the Alo Union system by warning the breeding union and county managers of your own province.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0006par0044	Bayram, the farmers say we don't have two bellies so we can tear one up!
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0005par0045	The third non-responsibility statement belongs to Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka (the Ankara MP) who wants to talk about Ankara's unemployment issue. Here you go, Mr. Nazliaka.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the impact of the unemployment issue on Ankara, one of Turkey's most important problems. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, look, the unemployment problem emerged after the industrial revolution, and it was thought to have stemming from the lack of performance by employees in the years that emerged. However, it has been noted, in the process that unemployment is not related to the performance of employees, especially from the beginning of the 20th century, that it is a social problem, and then the governments responsible for solving this social problem have been defined. Right now, the authority for solving this problem in Turkey is undoubtedly AKP power. However, we see together how the AKP, who came to power saying that we would deal with three NGOs, failed to cope with unemployment. Now, I'm going to give you the impressions of them over Ankara. Dear lawmakers, I asked the minister some questions regarding the unemployment in Ankara, and the answers I received from him are truly surprising. Do you know what percentage of unemployment has increased in Ankara since 2007? 237 percent. For those of you who haven't heard, unemployment in Ankara has increased by 237 per cent. Gene, in Ankara, we see that young unemployment attracts a lot of attention, and we see that we are facing the reality that one of each of our three young people is unemployed. Another problem in Ankara is unemployment and lack of education. When we look at job seekers, 74 percent of those registered to İSKUR are first and secondary school graduates. And when we look at the workplaces in Ankara, we're increasingly observing that various institutions in Ankara are moving to Istanbul, that the Central Bank is now in place, that Ankara is trying to stop being the capital and turn it into an empty city. [[Applause from CHP rows]] At this point, we see that no measures have been taken for the Ankarans who are dying for agriculture and livestock. As the speaker mentioned earlier, beauty contests in agriculture and livestock are unfortunately not held in Ankara. Gene, when we look at organised industrial areas with the heart of industry in Ankara, we observe that there are 10 organised industrial areas, but only 5 of them are active, and that there is a very low level of efficiency in industrial areas except Ostim and Ivedik. Look, unemployment is a different problem than other economic problems. Yes, the unemployment problem means that if you look at the economic scale, you can't produce unemployment means you can't consume unemployment, you can't create unemployment, but unemployment is also a problem with social dimensions. Unemployment means that if there's an unhappy individual in a family, that family is unhappy. Unhappy families, a country of unhappy societies and unhappy communities, are an unhappy future, a future that has to deal with poverty and deprivation, valued lawmakers. That's why I'd like to show you once again how failed AKP power in the fight against unemployment. Oh, let's just say that you somehow solved the economic scale of this unemployment problem with family assistance or unemployment insurance. How will you resolve the psychological impact of this problem on individuals? How are you going to solve that fear of the individual, the insecurity, that depressing structure? That's what you have to think about. Look, precious MPs, the capital of a country is the mirror of that country. The capital of a country is the pride of that country. The capital of a country is the brand of that country, its reputation, but during our time, in April of last year, a family was completely destroyed by coal poisoning. Gene, the eight-month-old baby of a family that used a catalytic stove recently because they couldn't get natural gas, the baby Melissa was burned to death. This is the situation in Turkey during our time. This is the case of Melih Gökçek. This is the situation in Ankara, which is not satisfied with the reward. I'd like to offer you one more time, my respects. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to our lawmakers that they've entered the system. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. In Balıkesir, in Gören, in Bandirma, in Manyas, in Susurluk, our farmers are sending us their demands, in great anguish, that their rights have been denied. At the time of the declaration, it was announced that the crop will be paid 400 kilograms in wheat, and the tripod will pay up to 750 kilograms in support, but now we're learning that the satellite has no production due to the drought photos, and that our farmers' bonuses over 200 kilograms and 500 kilograms in support of the government and agricultural district managers have been disbursed. From here, it is important to say that in difficult circumstances, our farmers are trying to produce, survive, using the world's most expensive diesel, fertilizer, and medicine. We're calling the Department of Agriculture authorities here: Don't take our farmers' production bonuses for reasons such as droughts and so on. Look, our head of the Chamber of Agriculture from Balıkesir, from Gören, from Bandirma, from Manyas, from Susurlik, our heads of the agricultural chamber fax us, and our support bonuses are being issued.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0010par0075	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0011par0078	Mr. President, in the beginning of last October, as part of the urban transformation project, it was destroyed by a ceremony in Turkey, where the Prime Minister turned into a show in Turkey, where two blocks from the Seahouses Site of Lake Cavak, which had been severely damaged and decided to destroy the 1999 Lakecuk earthquake. The Seahouses Site, located between 3,751 buildings, which will be destroyed as part of the urban transformation, is abandoned to its destiny today. After six months, 13 years have passed since the earthquake, yet still waiting for destruction. It is your knowledge of where and how the urban transformation was made.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0010par0079	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0012par0082	Mr. President, 49 people are on trial for the March 18, 1915 of Çanakkale for the march of civil, democratic mass organizations to No War. Is it a crime to say the proverb of Ataturk, peace in the land, peace in the world? I want to ask you how right it is to arrest these criminals. Again, there are reports in our press that our Foreign Minister Davutoglu went to Israel secretly three months ago. I wonder if that's true. If that's true, why was this visit secretly made? Shouldn't they apologize today and explain to the press and to the public what the Republic of Turkey has promised here because of this apology?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0010par0084	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. The last week of March, the Library Week, which we celebrated, is of great importance to the emphasis of reading. According to a study conducted by UNESCO, Turkey lacks the habit of reading. The book reading rate is around 21 per cent in the European Union, while Turkey is only 1 per 10,000 per cent in the country. Turkey is ranked number 86 of the countries of the world by reading books. Again, according to the study, Turkish people who watch TV on average for six hours a day can unfortunately only spend six hours a year reading a book. Let's read, encourage reading. I'm celebrating Library Week, hoping to create a generation of readers, researchers, interrogators.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0014par0090	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0015par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Justice Sadullah Ergin, Mehmetchik killer, criminal gang of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) say it is natural to walk outside the country's borders with their weapons waving their hands, while the Minister of Justice himself makes speeches that have ignored the laws, the rule of law and the Constitution. The minister says, "If this is a crime, I commit it." No one, for whatever purpose, has the right to ignore the laws, the Constitution. In fact, the Minister of Justice says: "I am the head of the HSYK, let's see which prosecutor will take action against me." And so he challenges prosecutors. The Minister of Justice has no freedom to commit crimes, his confessions are reports. Prosecutors should show the Minister that they are prosecutors of the Republic, not the Minister. Someone should remind the Minister there are prosecutors in Ankara. I'm inviting prosecutors to do their due diligence on the Minister of Justice, who has publicly confessed to the crime.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0014par0095	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0016par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The seasonal workers who heard that there would be hiring in 2007 by the Tea Business Directorate began as tea experts at the seasonal status status to achieve the career they were aiming for in accordance with academic trends. The seasonal workers, who began in the same status before 2007, then began with this hope, in the hope that there would be a new status change in the same direction in order for them to take positions under their training. However, the emergence of Law 5620 after the deployment has ended the dreams of many employees who have begun this mission, and it has been necessary for the graduates of the university of applied sciences and tea experts to come to the staff they deserve in accordance with their training. The treatment of personnel for various reasons can be considered according to the current legislation and according to the new regulations, to complete the staff needs of the treatment project with tea experts from the university. There is an expectation that tea experts will be improved in their rights and financial rights. I expect the government to be sensitive about this, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. The elementary school in our village of Taşburun, centrally located in the district of Kahramanmarash Elbistan, unfortunately burned down a few days ago. I wish our 150 students, our parents, and our teachers, who have studied at our school, well, well, I wish them well. At the same time, I'm calling on the Ministry of National Education at the point where a new one will be made instead of the repairs of our very historic school. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0020par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. At approximately 9:15 p.m. on 5 September 2012, 25 military personnel including Tripolian Onur Fikret Dülger have been martyred and 4 military personnel have been slightly injured as a result of the explosion during the work at the Armourment Storage Command in the Army Logistics Command in Afyonkarahisar. After seven months, however, the government is asked to explain how and if the responsible ones are not determined, at what stage of the investigation, when the investigation will be concluded, as well as our fallen parents, as well as our citizens, as well as our dead parents. I wish to show proper sensitivity, and thank you, everyone.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0021par0114	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0022par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Farmers call from Artova district of Tokat Province, where they say they can't pay their debts, their agricultural debt, their private sector's seed, diesel, pharmaceutical fertilizer, and they're also told that they can't pay their debts. In particular, it is said that many of the mails that have been delivered to the chiefs recently have been sent from the executive offices. The government is expected to immediately take measures regarding the situation of farmers, remove interest, and work at the point where various loans will be opened again. As a result, the executive offices take the villagers' homes, take their fields, and they fall into the hands of banks. When most banks are foreign banks, foreign banks own fields, have homes, have different stores. Therefore, the government must do something urgent to the situation of farmers and peasants. That's what I tried to tell you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0023par0122	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0024par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. In Antalya, I gave a non-responsive speech about pressure and exiles to doctors who studied private hospital bills, and I made motions, but no response was given to the question proposals or to our conversation. At no time in history has the right of control of the House been violated so severely. I ask you again, who is the minister who called the director of the National Intelligence Agency in Antalya for special hospital bills? By what authority was this call made? In an environment where only 5 per cent of the bills are controlled, doctors are exiled, court decisions are not implemented; this is unacceptable. How much does it cost to pay private hospitals in exchange for bills in a year? How much do hospitals get paid? Since when is it a crime to answer for government resources? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0025par0129	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0026par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on February 25th, a new hospital opened, a modern hospital opened, so we thank you. However, there is a serious problem with this hospital's choice of location because there is a railway crossing ahead and a closed gate, so there are serious problems. Also, since the unleaded glass was forgotten where the X-ray devices were found, everyone who went in there was exposed to radiation, and that was undetected for a month. Also, the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency didn't come there to measure. Hospital employees are seriously suffering from this. The government needs to find a solution immediately, and they need to be compensated for their losses if they're being measured there and if they're being damaged. In this way, those who cause injury by wrongdoing and negligence must also be punished. I wanted to draw attention to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0027par0136	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0028par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Our new Minister of Health, in particular, stated that he would bring an arrangement regarding the full-time law, but the professors at the universities in particular say that they are violently disturbed because there is a new arrangement to search yesterday. Therefore, I believe that in order for our fellow physicians in parliament to complete their education in terms of the future of Turkish medicine, enough physicians to grow up, the habit must be given up, so that the professors' comfortable working environments should be established for them in a manner worthy of human honor, and I wish the Assembly to show sensitivity. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0029par0142	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Nazlıaka...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0030par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, unfortunately, three more of our women died of violence, and only 12 hours before their divorce, one of them was killed by her husband. According to studies, we face the reality that women see the most intense violence in July, because of a process in which our women wait until they get a report card, and then when they get the kids to ask for divorce, they see the most intense violence from their wives, and eventually they follow a process that leads to death. I would like to bring the House's attention back to this, and I would like to invite the AKP's power to stop these problems, physically and physically, not so-called. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0031par0150	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. Mr. Havut, I promised you before, but...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0032par0152	There was a sentence missing just a moment ago...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0031par0153	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0032par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. I said, I've just been interrupted. Now, our head of the Green Agriculture Room says: "When has the property records of the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate been updated across the country been updated?" Is this data healthy? It says about what needs to be done: it's not healthy to change efficiency when the district changes, while there is no geographical discrimination in the same area. For example, the village of Gören Bajramic, the village of Manyas Akçaova, although the village of Bajramic is based on one another, wheat is supported by over 230 kilograms, 300 kilograms in its border village of Akçaova. Again, the tripod is paid at 950 kilograms in the Manyas region, and in the next district of Gönen, 770 kilograms in the area, Edirne Keşan (a.............) they are being paid by the Ministry of Agriculture officials by showing data from........ to correct these data errors and immediately seek a solution to address Balıkesir's victimship in the Marmara region.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0031par0157	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0033par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's a little positive that citizens get better quality services, that they get uninterrupted service, that investments that were not made by the state during the AKP administration should be made by the private sector, and that's not the case -- 21 electrical distribution companies have been privatized. One of them is SEDASH, which includes my knowledge of Ezekiel, where we continue to bring up the negatives that we bring up over and over again. His final act has paid off his debt to SEDASH, and even though the bill has been billed, he has put the citizens' lives at ease. It's not only that, but it's like an advance loan, a down payment for electricity that he doesn't use, that he's going for a down payment. The lack of supervision and abandonment of these distribution companies has made the citizen very frustrated. Your information is available.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0034par0163	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0035par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. This year, the presidents of the Çanakkale Agriculture Room, Gallibolu and Çanakkale, other district agricultural rooms, have had huge complaints. They also complained that this year's anniversaries -- from last year's and previous years -- have been detected by aerial photos, and support per kilogram has been detected in half. This means that despite the fact that the farmer is already in a difficult position, the inputs are too high and the lack of money, this year the AKP government -- knowingly -- is there no money, is it for him to make these full cabinets look particularly low, even though they are particularly high? They're trying to give support by putting about 250 kilograms in the place where there's 600 per cycle, 320, 500. Will this error be corrected, or will the farmer be sentenced to death again? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0036par0169	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Low wages, work unsecured, unemployment, job accidents, occupational illness, inhuman working conditions and so on are the common problems of all workers. In addition to these common problems, of course, each branch has its own unique, work-based problems. In Turkey today, skin workers who try to survive in leather businesses have problems that have become gangrene. While the birthplace of skin production and workmanship and its initial development is Europe, this sector has gradually shifted to Asia and Latin America and has been particularly focused on areas where animalism has flourished. Turkey is ranked second in Europe after Italy and fourth in the world after Italy, China and India. Although the industry began using new technologies in machines to increase production and compete with other manufacturers in the sector, it seemed to have been relatively easy to do so from the past, it did not change the working and living conditions of the workers in a positive way. In less time, skin workers who continue to produce less and more are struggling with health problems, as well as with poor working conditions, uninsured work, subcontracting, low wages, mandatory overtime. Moreover, hundreds of skin workers have no knowledge of occupational illness or health problems that could be caught at any time. Almost all workers who work with large and heavy skins are particularly complaining of back and back pain. In particular, business accidents in the form of finger and arm lacerations during the shaving and cavaleta process pose a serious danger in these factories. Their environment causes workers to develop lung disease, such as KOAH, asthma, at a very early age. The risk of cancer is serious because of chemicals such as asthma, ammonia, and chromium. In this industry, full of workers who have lost their lives or their health due to all of this, in exchange for blood and life, the pouch of their skin bosses is constantly plus-valued every day. In leather factories, fractures caused by fallings caused by wet and oily floors include dislocations, sprains, sprains, electric impacts while working on wet floors again. The sharp knives used to scrape skins, the machines used to process skins, cause cuts, compressions, and disconnects. In the dishing business, there is a constant possibility of infection when removing the epidermis of animal skins because there are many microorganisms in animal skins. Such diseases as tetanus, anthrax, and brusella are the most important diseases that can be removed from the skin during platening. The chemicals used to prevent them from forming are also a great danger to the health of workers. Temporal labor, one of the most important problems of leather workers, has been widespread. In fact, applications, such as an indefinite employment contract, a fixed-term contract, partial labour, compensation work, subcontractor work, and call-order execution, have been generalized with the law in part. One of the areas where the dermatology sector is common is the Gerede district of Bolu. There are 120 businesses operating in the dermatology sector in this district, and some 2,500 workers are working in the workplace. Not even the rights provided by the Employment Law are known to them, as a very important part of the workers are not recorded. In the past week, skin workers in our town of Gerede have rebelled in order to complete their legal rights and improve the working conditions. They have been subjected to severe and excessive interference by security forces, and many workers have been taken into custody. These workers, along with their families, represent a group of about 10,000 people, expect the proper attention from the authorities. With respect to the opening of Parliamental investigations under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th of the Constitution, on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to establish the problems of the deregulation industry that operate in our country in general and in particular, can be taken in order to put an end to the problems of our workers. [[Bolu]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 25) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tens of thousands of employees working in different areas in hospitals within the Ministry of Health are known to be employed by subcontractors. The job of running a subcontractor was initially a matter of just cleaning jobs for hospitals and other health care companies, while numbers and problems became a social problem, becoming more and more common. The number of subcontractors employed in health care today has reached incredible sizes. In 2011, the Minister of Health himself stated that the number was 118 thousand. Many units, including security, cleaning and recording, even jobs in technical and medical areas are run by subcontractors. The number of subcontractors growing like avalanches is also growing in the problems of their employees. People who work as subcontractors are left at the mercy of firms as a result of the lack of sufficient consideration and no permanent solutions to their problems. The future of subcontractors whose social rights and guarantees are not enough is between the lips of the firm's official. These workers, slaved and underpaid, are paid much less than their peers, even though they do much less than their own. It's like a dream to have subcontractors who don't have union rights, who don't have a clock. This is not in line with the principle of the social state. Companies in and out of subcontractors often deprive their employees of many rights. Hospital administrations also provide employees in areas that are needed through subcontractors. This leads to the exploitation of labor, the humiliation of human dignity, in order to make things cheap. The fact that there is no solution yet indicates that executives, particularly the Ministry, have also tolerated the situation. The subcontractors, who have no choice, who are concerned about not finding a job, who are concerned about housing, who are concerned about bringing bread to their children every night, agree to be slaves to this outdated mentality. At the coming point, subcontractors are satisfied with the fact that the workers have turned the corner and the hospital administrations have done the same work for cheap without taking too much risk. These people, who can't take advantage of any of the improvements that hospitals give to other personnel, who have no time to work, who don't have permission, who have to do whatever work they're given, who can be fired for weather reasons, who have been exploited and who have done really important work, should be given human conditions and job security as soon as possible. This inappropriate system, which is imposed on people as subcontractors, is the greatest disrespect to the personality, honor, and effort of our human beings, for which they can profit from people's backs to corporate bosses without work. The state is obliged not to discriminate among its employees, but to take care of the people it employs, to find a solution to this systemic disorder, and to ensure the working peace. In view of the issues mentioned above, we respectfully submit to the opening of the Constitutional Charter of the 98 Τth and Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Interior Charter under Articles 104, 105, to prevent economic injustice, to ensure that workers of subcontracted firms can benefit from all social rights, and to find permanent solutions to their problems. [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 25) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 26) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, climate changes, erosion, desertification, drought and environmental sensitivity have been unplanned and distorted by industrialization, and the forests, vegetation, air, water, our land is under serious threat. The earth, an essential part of life and nature, is rapidly polluted and rapidly destroyed. In order to investigate and determine the reasons for the loss of land and pollution in our country, we propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. 1) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] 9) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 25) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 26) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] Most of its living species have vital properties for the environment, for the environment, and for the human population. The soil itself is a natural resource that forms the food source of living things; in other words, it is a non-existent natural resource with air and water to sustain living natural resources. The soil is a fundamental environmental element from the angles of maintaining the potential of water resources, maintaining the flora and fauna, providing environmental-science. The soil contains natural environmental values as well as artificial environments, human civilizations. Man has dealt with the earth since his creation. Some of the land's problems stem from natural events or the structure of the soil, while many of them are from human intervention. The total area of our country is 98.3% land, 1.3% water surface. It is possible that attempts to preserve, balance and develop our largest natural asset, our land, the values of the land, the resources of the developing science and technology, are detailed, that its properties are very well defined, mapped, and made up a database of plans based on that. It would take centuries to form a layer of earth at the depth of a finger. Negative conditions can destroy this layer in a season or two and move it to the oceans. The earth's earth's crust is rapidly losing the layer that forms it. The land that is carried with streams in our country is seven times more than the United States, 17 times Europe, and 22 times more than Africa. The River Firat carries 108 million tons of land a year, and the Green Mill carries 55 million tons of land. Each year, there are 32 million tonnes of land in Keban Dam, 31 million tons in Karakaya Dam. Erosion causes 90 million tons of plant food to be lost together a year. Each year, 500 million tonnes of agricultural land are lost from the surface of the entire country by erosion of 1.4 billion tons of fertile high ground. The lost land is equivalent to an area 25 centimetres thick, about 400,000 hectares wide. The process of misposition of aimless land use, faulty agricultural techniques, city, industry, transport and so on has increased the rate of erosion. As if disaster-quality erosion wasn't enough, agricultural land, especially fertile farmland, has faced open attack and plunder with non-foreign use. In this direction, the earth, an essential part of life and nature, is rapidly polluted and rapidly destroyed. In order to investigate and determine the reasons for the loss of land and pollution in our country, a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution is needed in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 28/03/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. It has been suggested that a parliamentary inquiry of the Turkish Parliament's agenda should be met together in the General Assembly's 28/03/2013 Thursday session to determine the measures which should be taken by investigating the injustice of the Asgarial fee (10/224) during the 120th period (10/224). In favor of the proposal, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0037par0389	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion to investigate as the Peace and Democracy Party Group. I salute the General Assembly. The hopes that citizens leading Turkey's most important problems will respond to labour supplies and live a life worthy of human dignity in return for their efforts are diminishing day after day because of the government's economic policies. Government policies, which govern Turkey's economic policy, are moving at a point based solely on the interests of capital. The society is becoming poorer under neoliberal policy practices, while the workers' earned rights throughout history are being stripped one by one, wanting to be deprived of rights and law. We are dealing with an AKP government that sees labour as a cost factor of capital in all areas, reduces investment criteria to cheap labour, and internalizes the neoliberal world view of labour as just a meta. At the point where we are today, power has transformed Turkey into a work exploiting centre. In this context, he is consciously following a destructive policy at the overall level of wages due to the excess of labour supply. Precious lawmakers are described as minimum wage in the section of the minimum wage of the minimum wage of the Price of Prices of Prices of the Day, which is paid as a normal working day for workers, and is required to meet the employee's mandatory needs, such as food, housing, clothing, health, transport and culture. The minimum wage, which is net $773 in our country where the hunger limit reaches 1,100 euros, is far from being able to afford the most basic food expenses, let alone cultural spending. If the economy is growing, I don't understand why workers and workers can't get a cut without growing up. Inflation is two digits, and pay raises are three percent, and it's hard to understand what that's like. Is it fair to increase the minimum wage of electricity, natural gas, fuel, while the laborer's labor is shrinking to one degree, while the price of bread is falling behind the increases? How do minimum wage workers with their families live on $773 over 20 million? If anyone knows about this, please come out here and tell us and convince us. Dear MPs, unfortunately when it comes to work and labor, there is much to discuss, much to discuss in Turkey. One of them, of course, is the issue of occupational health and safety. In particular, it is also known that many workers have been victims of job killings in recent years due to the lack of sufficient share in business control. Although legal regulations for labour health and occupational safety are being made, new work killings are inevitable in the coming period due to the lack of health inspections in this area. There are killings of workers in factories, workshops, construction, mines, fields, basically everywhere. In Turkey, where about 12,000 workers have died in the last decade, average 1,081 workers lose their lives every year. The capital and the government ignore the healthy and safe working conditions of workers. The government talks about the great success of economic development and growth, but all data shows that the economy is rising from unsecured conditions, low wages, no unions, no insurance. The nakedest image of insecurity is that workers' deaths continue to increase every year. At least 878 workers died in 2012, according to reports of the Istanbul Labor Health and Occupational Safety Assembly. Thus, since many of the uninsured business accidents have not been reported, these figures can be expressed even higher. A study of occupational illness does not exist. The Social Security Agency also explains that around 400-500 workers suffer from occupational illness each year, while in some years there is no death due to occupational illness, however it may be. Three occupational hospitals -- this number -- in Turkey, where there are 1,820,000 workplaces and nearly 30 million workers -- show that the government has no intention of protecting the worker against occupational illness and business accidents. Precious lawmakers, the Kurdish problem and the unemployment problem we face as Turkey's most important problem after democratisation are increasingly painful. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security data, Turkey has 1,500,000 private businesses and around 320,000 public businesses. According to official data, there are 25.5 million jobs in Turkey, but only 18.5 million of them are insured and registered; 6.7 million people work in household cleaning, sick, elderly care services, agriculture, construction and so on. Public subcontractorship and atypical employment forms, considered a fortress of both private sectors and legal work during the AKP administration, are rapidly spreading. One of these atypical types of jobs is temporary, so they're seasonal workers. For example, 4,700 people are currently employed in Turkish Sugar Factorys, which is temporary, in seasonal labor status. 283 people work temporarily at the Pain Sugar Factory, which is my constituency. These workers only work a hundred and twenty days a year for four months. These hundred and twenty days take place in parts, in different months. There are workers who are the youngest 40 years old and have worked for 30 years, but the number of insurance days is still around 2,000 to 3,000 days. So in order for them to retire, they have to work for more than 50 years. I'm afraid these workers don't have a chance to do anything else. The workers and their families have suffered great losses as well. The problems of these workers need to be solved in an absolute sense. These should be staffed as soon as possible. On the highways, the number is around 10,000. Honourable lawmakers have been implementing policies for ten years with various regulations to reduce real wages and social security of workers in order to ensure that the capital class gains more in terms of AKP's neoliberal economic understanding. The status of a state official restored by the AKP (AKP) is found in four ways in social life. Public employees working within subcontractors in 4/A, 4/B, 4/C and state institutions face the deepening of their problems day after day with status differences. Let's take it from the privatisation process of the AKP (AKP), which is a policy that is a broad range of public employees' real wages and social rights to the employer. It extends to the economic challenges of both the victims of privatisation and the laws imposed on the entire working force. They face serious problems from public workers of 4/C, who have reached 50,000, to 4/C, who are especially subject to the privatisation process. Ezcesi does not end in counting the problems of workers who work in Turkey, especially workers who work for minimum wage and workers who do not work. I salute you all with a wish for Turkey, where all problems have been solved, a life worthy of people's honor.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0038par0400	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Against you, Şanlıurfa MP Abdulka Emin Önaln. Here you go, Mr. Forward.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0039par0404	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As far as geography and values are concerned, Turkey has cradled humanity and has hosted countless civilizations. Many civilizations have embroidered their art, culture, life and understanding into this ancient land where they live. All formations and structures that we can count on the principles of human beings and civilizations are formed in this land. As everyone knows, the minimum wage in Turkey is also determined by a new understanding and organisation during the period of the EC PARTY administrations. When we came to power in 2002, you can see a positive difference between minimum wage and minimum wage set in 2013, and the difference is that the AK PARTI awareness is behind it. Look, I'd like to present a brief summary of what we've done here in 11 years, including minimum wage from this bench. In December 2002, the net minimum wage was $184, while in the first six months of 2013, the net amount increased to $774, so the increase was 320.6 per cent. The lowest salary of civil servants, including family allowance, was $392 in December 2002, while the increase to $1,818 in 2013 was 363.7 per cent. The lowest pensioner's pension increased to $377 in December 2002 to $1,118 in 2013, so the increase was 196.5 per cent. The lowest SEC pension was 257 in December 2002, with $923 in 2013, and the increase was 259. Again, the lowest BUG-KUR tradesman's pension was 149 liras in December 2002, while in 2013 it increased to 748 liras and increased to 400.2%. The lowest BUG-KUR farmer's pension was $66 in December 2002, while in 2013 it was $558, so the increase was 745 per cent. There have been increased rates of over 350 per cent in 65-year-old months and major monthlys. Given the fact that inflation has increased by 135.9% during this period, it turns out that we're doing a lot more than inflation to our employees and pensioners. In addition, we gave our officers a raise by making up the difference if our salary increases during the year were to be under the same period of inflation. Also, as an AK PARTY, we've ended public pay imbalance. In addition to general regulations in some public administrations, additional payments, additional compensation, return capital contribution, incentive bonuses, and bonuses were being paid in different names and sums. Therefore, under the principle of the government's primary goals, we have issued the Court of Justice 666 under the principle of equal pay for the work. With this decree, we have eliminated the wage imbalance caused by additional payments between staff members in the same service class, the same or similar staff. ONE of the important reforms that we carried out during our EC PARTY governments is the reform of equal wages for equal work. Since 2002, we haven't had our public officials, pensioners and citizens working at minimum wage crushed by inflation, and then we won't. Mr. President, the value of lawmakers considers the social and economic status of the country in the setting of the fee, the living indexes of the salaries, the overall situation and conditions of the actual salary. In addition, the commission can co-operate with all public institutions and universities involved in determining the fees, take advice and advice from employees and employers and apply for the information of experts when necessary. In this scope, the commission considers the demands of employees and employer representatives from the Ministry of Development, Turkey's Statistical Agency and Treasury Undersecretary, who are commissioners of the minimum wage assessment. The minimum wage is concerned with public order, and it is not possible for workers to be paid under the amount specified by the minimum wage Tespit Commission. When we assess the minimum salary in Turkey in 2013 among countries in Europe, the European Commission's official statistical agency, EUROSTAT, according to data in June 2012, the minimum wage level in our country is higher -- countries such as 10 countries that belong to the European Union, Bulgaria, Romania, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland. This shows that the minimum wage in Turkey is still at a better point than many European countries. At the end of my words, I salute you all, against the Parliament's inquiry motion, which the Peace and Democracy Party has asked that the Constitution be opened by Articles 92 and the Civil Code 104 and 105.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0040par0413	Thank you, Mr. Fronten. In favour of the proposal, Ankara MP Izzet Cetin. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0041par0417	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have received a pledge from the Peace and Democracy Party in favor of the group proposal. I salute you all. Dear friends, since a long time, there may not have been such a motion to investigate the problems of the workers in the House. Today, BDP has proposed, and I thank you, but these, unfortunately, have no say in the matter. No one in the government, or even two members of the ruling party, is able to track as many lawmakers as the fingers of two hands, particularly the AKP's view of working life and work. Dear friends, this is a matter of minimum wage. Just now, while listening to my friend, the AK PARTI spokesman, I was amazed once again, as an ex-unionist and as a parliamentary speaker, to see how much things can be distorted. Dear friends, we must, of course, believe that as opposition party MPs -- we have official documents from our ministries. When it comes to minimum wage, I, the Ministry of Development, the Finance Ministry, TÜİK and Turkey's Central Bank data, had them removed and delivered half an hour ago, but I had trouble understanding the numbers my AKP spokesman friend gave me, where, who, who, gave it to me. Now, I don't want to get into your comparisons. Of course, the first thing that needs to be specified is that we have defined the minimum wage, as in its definition, in a manner worthy of the human dignity of a worker, as well as with his family, as a fee to meet the basic needs of a worker through current prices. The minimum wage, of course, should be considered as a human living wage, is better than many European countries, compared with countries in Europe. The use of the words of my AKP MP friend is truly sad. Now, dear friends, of course, I don't blame my congressman friend. Just a few days before that, Mr. Secretary of State, our Minister of Labour and Social Security, brought up this statement in a television program with Balçek Elter. He said, just like that, Mr. Steel, Minister: there's no such thing as not being able to live on the regular wage, you live on it. If you're stuck with him, it's a lot of money. As a result, the price of the cheese's weight is set, the price of the bread is fixed, you can live on a living. Of course, not to be too unfair to the Minister. While the prime minister is calling investors to Turkey at the head of the promotion agency, Turkey is the longest working period -- 52.9 hours in terms of working time -- and it is the country where workers, employees, use minimum sick days a year, workers get at least four days a year; their work period is long, the permits are short, the fees are printed; after saying, "Come." After saying, neither should I be able to comment on a statement like this nor my congressman friend's speech just a moment ago. Dear friends, again, my congressman friend just said: "We've improved the status of officers since we came to power, we've made a lot of adjustments to inflation, and we've made a lot of adjustments to working life. " Right, you've sentenced employees, especially workers to minimum wage, so there's no doubt -- in the statements made by the Minister of Labor and the Minister of Finance -- there's no doubt -- 48 percent or 47 percent of the employees, if they've been sentenced to minimum wage, or if they've been sentenced to 774 lira. Again, if 40 percent of the economy is unregistered, of course the off-the-book area is illegal, so there's no insurance, there's no union, there's no minimum wage. If 40 per cent of the economy is unregistered, there is also a huge number of works that yearn for $774. I'm not exaggerating, dear friends, but this morning, a lady from Thrace called on her way here to the Clave. Although the salary at his workplace was at a minimum wage level, he asked if he had no insurance for years, what he should do, how he should behave. The only thing I could tell him was that you should apply for a job at the IL SGO Directorate, but you should be willing to be fired. When you lost your job, you got me fired. You shouldn't say that. I mean, if the Minister of Labor in this country doesn't come to listen to such an important issue, and there's so much open illegal work in the provinces that inspectors aren't assigned, then, yes, this area is a loose area, workers are unsecured, union-free, uninsured. Therefore, it is no wonder that 48 per cent of the workers are sentenced to minimum wage. Dear friends, today's truly working life has turned into chaos; unions have been silenced, suppressed, workers suppressed. That nightmare that collapsed on the entire society, the empire of horror, unfortunately, has made the working life miserable. While unions were still seen as illegal organisations and anarchists or terrorist organisations in Turkey, it became the AKP classics to ignore practices in other ways as thousands of policemen were being turned over by helicopters to the top of LlMAN-İSK, while other forms of practice were being ignored. Terror has been left aside by those who destroy the country's resources or by smuggling, and those who feed on it, and now trade unions are being retold to society like terrorist organizations, and unions are trying to be neutralized. On the other hand, subcontractors corrode the Minister's door almost every day in the House, the elderly wear out the Minister's door, as well as contractors. The Minister says we're preparing to avoid them, we'll bring them soon. You're the one who created the problem. The subcontractor work is your work. The 4/C people said, the 4/B/B/B people, the owner of the motion, I've already told you from this platform how many times, when you came to power, there were only 164 employees in November 2003, and even under the roof of this Grand National Assembly today, there are over 2,000 contract workers waiting today. Of course, Minister, we're preparing to get rid of the incoming delegations as soon as possible. He's trying to save the day. The point of real subcontractor work is very grave. Look, PTT employees walked yesterday. You're going to bring in PTT Ash law soon, and it's clear to everyone how illegal the way they work there, especially the cargo workers, are being fired because they're looking for the rights of 200-250 workers. Again, another bleeding wound in our country today was a regional minimum wage. The current Minister of Economy, Mr. Calashan, brought up the regional minimum wage when he was President of the ASO, entered into your programme, became the subject of your national employment strategy document, but you started that problem in the east, different wages, different wages in the west, this division, and the country's drift towards a dark spot, it's abused, although it's true, and you followed it and encouraged it to solve the investor in the east, in terms of incentive, in terms of regional minimum wage in Eastern Anatolia and Southeast Anatolia province. This seems like the right practice, but I'd like to say once again that this means putting dynamite at the bottom of the unitary state structure in the country. Dear friends, of course, it's in the press again today, and you've read in many places, in the arrangement for labour health and in the new Unions Act, to employers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President. ... You had to bring in an employee representative. That employee agent's real owner is the unions. You're afraid of the union rep, so you've also given away your employee representative to work life. Congratulations! I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0042par0438	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Against you, Aydın MP Ali Longırmak.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0043par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favour of the proposal for research on the problems of minimum wage. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, minimum wage is not just a problem for workers, it's not a problem for employees. It is also an important problem for the employer. So it's not enough for the government or us to look out one window and see it as just a problem with workers and just say them. His employer is also suffering from his competitive obligations. So, in accordance with this proposal, we say that it is wise for the Parliament to establish a proper policy in order to ensure the balance between both working and working and social layers in the country, by establishing a commission in this direction, in all directions, in terms of economic, social, cultural, psychological, efficiency, and in all aspects of the study. Dear lawmakers, there are some very important things I would like to share with you on this occasion, especially on the basis of the last days. It may not be so right to be busy with future accounts in a land where there is no future. I feel that we need to look at the history of what has been developing in the last few days, the state and the nation, about our lives very closely, and I believe that history is a laboratory. Of course, it's for those who want to see and those who want to learn. There are issues on the agenda, such as peace, solutions, weapons drop, terrorists being sent out of bounds. Here, of course, there's a lot of confusion in the concept. No one knows what anyone says, who's purpose is, and how well-intentioned this purpose can be, including those who have good intentions. Dear lawmakers, from history, from the last days of the Ottomans, there are issues that we need to consider today, such as these goodwill talks, these commissions of wise men, and some of them, where the Prime Minister will gather the MPs and use them as ambassadors to convince them to go to their districts. What's the date that looks like this? When Turkey, which resembles these, is occupied in history, there are people who are involved in various tasks of the sultanate, and they have actions that they want to do, actions that they want to do, and there is an end to them. Look, I'll tell you a few of these: We have Sheikhulism Mustafa Sabri Efendi, President of the Kurdish Teali Society Seyit Abdulkadir, spy of the British League of Molla, Miralay Sadik on the British payroll, Ali Kemal on the British payroll, Riza Tevfik on the Confederate Xenelabidin. Do you know where they meet, and what they do, where they meet as a result of their actions, dear friends? These were found on the British ship on 13 November 1922, to leave Istanbul, to seek refuge with the British. So, what kind of procedures did they do, what kind of procedures did they lead to? Look, Mustafa Sabri, who was troubled by Kuvaimilliya, served in the Sheikhulism office and in the government of the Son-in-law Ferit, and thanked British Army Ancessary Deeds for his intervention to remove Mustafa Kemal. Mustafa Sabri, the man who called on Kuvaimlim to slay the leaders of the Teali-i Islam Society. So, according to Mustafa Sabri (Muslim), Kuvayimilli is a test by a sergist in a drunken state, and this statement was sent to the Turkish people from Greek planes by Mustafa Sabri (Sabri). So, Mustafa Sabri wrote this statement, and who is Lord Abdullah of the Burrizade who met on that British ship? Abdallah is the sheikh of the day, and the sheikh of the kingdom of Farid is the sheikh of the son-in-law, which publisheth this declaration against Kuvaimilli. So what? He took refuge on the British ship. The third person I want to give an example to is Cemal Bey, who has done some of the duties of the First Son-in-law Ferit, Duhilijah, 4th son-in-law Ferit, Sadaret Undersecretary, 5th Government. Because of what he did, Asia Minor named him Artin Cemal. He has prevented the delegates from joining the Sivas Congress of Kuvayimilli, removed them from prison and armed the bandits, sent them to the nationalists. Note that Mustafa Kemal Pasha sent Refet Bele to arrest him. He has taken refuge in the government of Ferit. I'm coming to the most important one. Hafiz Mahmoud is the head of the Adana Branch of the Freedom and Opposition Party. Ferda magazine apparently was a French collaborator who wanted to give French servants a religious purpose by publishing the sermon that this ignorant man preached at the Memis Pasha Mosque on April 16, 1920. Hafiz Mahmoud wanted to give French butler a religious purpose. In Hafiz's sermon, he says: "It is a lie to Kuvaimilli, it is a mask. Don't ever believe that. It's crazy to believe these guys. They're all looters. Mustafa Kemal is a man whom the king has charged and sentenced to death. These are the British ships. Dear MPs, today I wonder how much Mr. Prime Minister believes in words such as the magic words, the release of weapons, the release of weapons. There's talk of peace on the one hand, Mr. Prime Minister, about drinking hemlock poison. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, that's a hell of a contradiction! If there's peace and solution, why are you talking about hemlock poison? Here, all of this must be evaluated correctly. There's a war that's been going on for centuries against the good nation, the Turkish nation and its state; I use it knowingly, there's a power of attorney. The PKK has waged a war on behalf of its fathers in Turkey, and its original perpetrators, feral perpetrators, today. The government's primary duty is to ensure the safety of its citizen's property and life. They're the people or civilians of the Groom Ferit government, who would do anything to make a citizen's life, his property, his property, his rapes, his crimes, and bring them to justice, to be taken out of bounds in safety, by ignoring, or by ignoring, or by law, or by authorising them. There is no difference between them, and they will be judged in tomorrows, regardless of the evidence, the evidence, the evidence. No one can give or enforce illegal instructions, no matter what duty or authority they are in. So I'm warning public officials, civil citizens, everyone from here. Dear MPs, of course mothers don't cry, don't shed tears, let there be blood, but the PKK doesn't leave weapons and surrender to justice, it goes abroad and breathes. Thus, no government can make such persecution a means to itself, but something has come to light here: the government has become a co-conspirator of terrorists, the PKK, and the owners of PKK. Today's actions mean that the government's talks, talks, and the press have lost the legitimacy of the government. Today's government is a government that has lost its legitimacy, and these practices have lost the legitimacy of the government. I repeat with these thoughts that the motion is the right one, with my deepest regards to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0044par0458	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0045par0459	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit01spe0044par0460	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. And now the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I'm going to read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Thursday 28/03/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. The meeting of the Grand National Assembly's 10/66 main parliamentary inquiry motion for the Council of Turkey's 28/03/2013 Thursday (Today) merger of the General Assembly, which is part of the section of the National Assembly's Committee for General Discussion and Assembly Research (to determine the potential of water resources and to determine the measures needed to be taken for conscious use) has been proposed. On the other hand, Mr. Ali Sarıbaş of Çanakkale. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0046par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise on my research motion. I hereby salute your high council with the deepest of love and respect. Our world is 510 million square kilometers, 29 percent land and 71 percent water. Three percent of our world is water, but only 3 percent is drinkable water. 69% of drinkable water is found in glaciers, 30 per cent underground, and 1 per cent in swamps, rivers and lakes. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the most basic needs of living beings. With differences, the average annual rainfall of 168 billion cubic metres falls in our country. In the past century, the world's population has increased by three times, while water consumption has increased by six times in the same period. The average amount of water per person per year is 7,600 cubic metres [7,600 cubic m] in the world, while the average amount of water per person is 1,600 cubic metres [600 cubic m] in our country. A billion, 400 million people in the world can't find drinking water, while 2 billion, 600 million people have to use dirty water. Each year, more than 250 million people are infected with contaminated water and 3 million of them die. More than 3 billion people from 2025 are expected to suffer water shortages, while in 2050, water shortages are expected to reach 9.4 billion. Dear lawmakers, our country's current water potential is an average of 112 billion cubic metres per year. Our annual consumption of water is 44 billion cubic metres. Our Firat-Dicle basin is the largest water basin in our country, with 53 billion cubic metres of rain falling yearly. This is 18 percent of the total water potential of our country. Our lowest-raining basin is the Lake Burdur basin, with an average of 500 million cubic metres of rain per year. That's five percent of our water potential. It is estimated that our population will exceed 100 million in 2030 and drop 1,110 cubic metres per person per year. This painting shows that our country is poor of water. With the annual amount of water per person, in the coming years, it will be replaced by water shortages. In spite of this bitter painting, we are opening our basins, which provide drinking water, while unconsciously polluting and polluting our water supply. In industrial and residential areas, there are not enough wastewater infrastructures. Home and industrial waste water directly polluting our rivers, our underground waters and lakes. The most obvious example is the Ergene River. The Ergene River feeds the region where more than 300,000 fields of agriculture are watered by more than 1 million citizens living in the provinces of 40lari, Tekirdağ and Edirne. In the region, industrial waste and household waste are released to Ergene. The river, in its form, is a waste-water collection channel. This is a threat to human health in the region, and it has a negative effect on product efficiency and quality. Dear lawmakers, we also face floods of water each year, along with the rains. Over the past 18 years, there have been over 500 ▪ floods in our country, and in these floods, more than 500 have lost their lives and more than 500,000 hectares of agriculture have been flooded. This has caused more than $2.5 billion in damage to our country's economy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, under the name of privatisation, our waters are being pursued by foreigners. The water supply of the Kazdağs and nearly 1.5 million citizens living around it is under the threat and siege of multinational gold companies and their subcontractors. Bayramic Muratlar, Antlı, Olivey, Kuşçayır, Çanakkale Kirazlı and Ayvacık Bahdere and Lapseki Şahinli villages have also failed to drink and use water due to mining drilling in many settlements. The areas where mining and operating licenses are provided are directly above the water basin of the Kazdağs. However, the sixths continue to receive business licenses. As a result, our people in the region will be thirsty for drinking and using... our agricultural fields and factories in a very recent period of time. Water is one of the most important elements in our lives. In addition to its vital importance, it is the most important entry in agriculture and energy production. Therefore, because it is an international force, it will influence political and economic relations between countries as a growing resource, causing disagreements from time to time. Dear lawmakers, although we are a water-poor country, with global warming, environmental pollution and the destruction of nature, it is clear that we will soon face water shortages and water wars, as data have shown, as we unconsciously use our existing water resources. According to our neighbors, although we seem to be fortunate for the time being, it appears to be threatening our independence very seriously at a very recent time. Arguing about the Tigris and Rebel rivers has become even more evident along with our country's GAP project. Like all over the world, it is a complex problem, especially associated with different political tensions, with the declining water supply and increasing consumption in the Middle East. The unstable distribution of our water supply has also increased the importance of water in some parts of the world. Congressmans, considering the population growth in our country and our relations with our neighbors almost at the brink of war, we are obliged to protect and maintain our already scarce water supply. In particular, I would like to point out the importance of taking steps to protect the water supply of our people in the historical region, such as the third Bosphorus bridge and Istanbul, and the water area, which is also the source of Istanbul's resources. And let us not forget that the water in the basins of the region may also have been destroyed, as the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality irrigated it with water transports in the region and carried the water in its territory in a completely current sense. And once again, the laws that we've passed together, and the powers that we've given our Ministry of Urbanism, and also the powers that we've given to our ministry of Urbanism, and at the same time, the signs that the AKP government has really given water resources, and that we're going to be dehydrated in the future in our country, especially when we look at the water districts and water basins that have been taking place in recent days. That is why it is imperative to establish a research commission to determine our current water potential, to protect against the threats and dangers we face in the coming period, to use it consciously, to make the needed investments against the water shortage, and to determine the measures needed to be taken to be passed on to future generations. To this end, I offer the acceptance of my motion to the General Assembly's discretion, my deepest love and respect.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0047par0034	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. İstanbul MP Erol Kaya against you. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0048par0038	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP proposal, which, by identifying the capacities of our water resources, the struggle against droughts, global warming, scarce water resources, careful use of the environment, not to use them together consciously, that water shortages and water wars may arise in our recent history, and that our independence may be threatened. Dear friends, from the beginning of history, the rise and fall of civilizations has been determined by the use of water. In Egypt, the Nile was the cradle of great civilizations in India, Ganges in India, Fırat and Dicle, born in our country. The home of water, civilization and prosperity, and the loss of water is the beginning of collapse. In all ancient civilizations, respect for man, respect for nature, and the armor of sanctity are attributed to nature. In our civilization, waste is forbidden, so plant trees, even if the sky breaks. Do not waste your water, even if you take a bath from the river. We are a nation of the Messengers who admonish us. Dear friends, our Republican People's Party friends have suggested that we can face water shortages and water wars as a result of global warming -- where temperatures are rising, water resources are low, the environment is polluted, nature is destroyed -- and that our independence will be severely threatened, and that's why they want the Parliament's research commission to be established. So far, when we look at what the EC PARTY governments have done, it is possible to say that some of the data on our water potential has just been expressed in Turkey, and I want to repeat it. As of 2012, water potential for use is 112 billion cubic metres, and 9 billion cubic metres of potential can be provided from domestic rivers, 3 billion cubic metres of water from abroad, and 14 billion cubic metres from underground waters. And again, as of today, our water consumption has reached 44 billion cubic meters. Taking into account these assessments and the strategic importance of water, it is possible to say: The European Union's environmental chapter has been opened and significant steps have been taken to protect water resources. In this scope, 58 billion euros of environmental investment has been envisioned by 2023, and 33 billion euros have been divided into the waste-water sector, which is crucial to protecting water resources. As we look at the regulations for water protection and development, the Turkish Water Institute was established, the Prime Ministerial Water Management Co-ordination Board was formed, and water law work is under way. Another important thing is to increase the green. Again, when we look at data on the improvement and enhancement of our forest areas, we see that our country's forest area, which is 21 million hectares, has been increased to 21.6 million hectares. Regarding the preservation, rehabilitation and development of the Akarsu basins, it appears that the plan for protecting 25 river basins has been drawn up, the plan for 11 basins has been completed, the action plan for 5 basins has been updated, and the action plan for 9 basins remains. Again, I find it helpful to underline that actions such as Ergene, Kocay, have been implemented. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the major investment areas of the EC PARTY governments is the development of water resources. This study has ceased to be the success of our country, and has also become a solution to the water problem of many countries in our nearby geography, and most importantly, the motherland, which has a historical mission, has been brought water to our northern Cypriot state. In nine years, the DSI has launched 1,128 facilities, including 206 dams, 24 ponds, 179 irrigation facilities, 49 drinking water supply facilities, 643 floods' protection facilities, including China's highest dam, Adnan Menderes Dam and, again, the world's highest 6th highest dam, Artvin Deeper Dam. Dear friends, one of the important topics of water management is savings. In this direction, the rate of pipe irrigation was intended to reach 71 percent in 2003, while in 2014 it was intended to increase to 88 per cent. As we look at the watering areas, 11 million acres have been watered and 34 million citizens have been provided with additional drinking water. Long-term plans ensured the need for water from 81 counties to 2040-2050 and even 2060. The Melen Project and Istanbul will soon be satisfied with the need for water until 2071. Dear friends, giant projects have been implemented in Turkey not only to heal water, to protect it, to improve it, but also to deliver water to water in water-hydrated basins. The Blue Tunnel Project was transferred from the Skysu basin to the Conium basin, from Seyhan basin to the Develi basin, and the sultan's reed was recycled. Dear friends, I'd like to thank our friends with the motion to discuss some of our activities. AK PARTY power means service, non-discrimination. From yesterday's thirsty Istanbul to today's 2071, the water problem is to come to a city that has been solved. I have a debt to thank all the employees of our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, especially our Prime Minister, who carried out this success epic. To leave our country without water and to dream of fighting its neighbours is the last charge to be attributed to our government, our government and our nation. For all these reasons, the Republican People's Party MP feels that our friends' motions are not in order, and I would like to express the need to make a statement on one matter. Dear friends, the Ergene Basin, here, is a subject that comes up all the time. The Ergene River is a 283km stream, with 53 municipalities, including Edirne, Cırklareli and Tekirdağ, and 1,570,000 inhabitants. The responsibility for resolving this basin belongs to our municipalities in the first degree, according to the 14th and 15th Articles of City Law 5393, and Article 11th Article of the Environmental Law. Due to the failure of our municipalities to solve this problem, the government has earmarked a budget of $3 billion 104m for the Ergene Basin Protection Action Plan, and the deadline given to our municipalities on 13 May 2010, for municipalities below 100,000 under the law, for municipalities between 50,000 and 10,000 in May 13, 2012, and for municipalities under 10,000. Today, our municipalities have not taken the necessary steps regarding the Ergene basin, and the government has made a lot of arrangements for the rehabilitation of organised industrial areas, the dissolution of wastewater treatment facilities and the disposal of solid waste facilities. My concern, especially to share with my Republican People's Party friends, is one concern: the process for the rehabilitation of central administration's rivers and the completion of wastewater treatment facilities will be completed, but if the networks are not completed, if our municipalities do not, we face serious problems with the operation of these facilities. And to share that with our mayors, I think it's a very important thing in this sense, and I'm going to make a point. For all these reasons, I feel that the motion is not in place, and I declare that we will vote against it, and I salute you all again, and thank you to the House.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0049par0057	Thank you, Mr. Rock. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Celal Adan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0050par0061	Mr. President, the matter of water that our Republican People's Party brings up today is about our geography and is as important as the oil that super countries are most interested in in in the world. It is considered appropriate by the National Movement Party to support it. I'd like to share some matters with you, if I may, regarding the process we're in. Dear MPs, the Turkish state, the Turkish nation have never been more vulnerable to threats and dangers in history. Everyone who lives freely in this land must feel great pain that today, the Turkish nation's own name, which God has ordained, is to be divided in secret by its own history, by the blood of martyrs, by a disgusting bargain of its right to sovereignty over the world. As much value as there is to our national dignity and national honor has been placed on the table by this government. Not only did Mr. President Bahçeli speak to Mr. President, but the anger of the Turkish nation spoke, the souls of the injured martyrs spoke, and the nationalist movement spoke in Bursa. Those who are obsessed with this country, who do not realize that the road they go through is a bad road, even those who are betrayed, should pay attention to the voice that rises from the Lord's rally, the spirit that speaks there, and understand what is said there. Those who take the nationalist movement lightly will be shown the weight of the nationalist, international movement. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's really embarrassing. This nation is known for the integrity of its veins, but some of the media in this country, some of the intellectuals in this country, reveal that there is no more sense of art or life. These circles have been applauding that shame painting, which has been on display in Diyarbakir Square for days. Again, these circles almost gave divine meaning to the PKK's terrorist group leader's letters and messages. On March 21st, after reading that certain, busy text, they made that terrorist a regular messiah. It's a shame, it's a shame, even for the scoundrels. The Turkish state's ability to become a state has been left to a terrorist's will, his initiative. The Prime Minister has been busy providing security guarantees to PKK traitors for days. Mr. Prime Minister and his colleagues praised the declarations of the bandit who dragged the state's will to the ground, expressing their admiration. Dear MPs, the bandit is under arrest. It's clear why the bandit was arrested, why he was punished, but when his messages were being read through an MP in the Diyarbakır square, he said: "He won your fight for thirty years, and you got the best result of your struggle in 30 years. Now, a new era begins. It describes the heroics of a time in 30 years when 30,000 of our people were martyred, our security guards were martyred, the orphans, the poor, the poor, billions of dollars of poor money were spent on terror. If there's no crime here, if there's no crime in these statements, what crime is there in the world? Is there any power in Turkey that can save whoever the prime minister is, which corresponds to these statements and praises them when there is real justice from the Supreme Court? He's out there declaring the death of national states. How can the Prime Minister and his friends of the Republic of Turkey, a national state, express the logic that the separatist's statements are true? We heard it from their mouths. If the Justice and Development Party opposes the nation's state, let's not reveal it by hiding behind a traitor, let's get out, let's make it clear. Folks, from the hypocrisy of this power, he's become unable to see the real side of things because we're getting further and further away from democracy. In today's Turkey, nothing is transparent. We ask you, what did you negotiate with the terrorist leader? The government is staring us in the face. Good cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, bad cop, What peace is there in what comes out of the mouth of the black serpent? Those who fool people so bravely will pay for it one day. Dear MPs, as you know, on May 31, 2010, an attack was launched on the Blue Marmara ship, which delivered humanitarian supplies to Gaza, by Israeli soldiers, and nine of our Turkish citizens were martyred. After this incident, we stood by the will of the Justice and Development Party. The National Movement Party supported the government's will for our martyrs that day. What was that will? It was the will of the state of Israel where they came and martyred nine of our citizens in an international area. Now, let's take a look at the developments: three years passed, and one day a phone call comes to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan from the United States President Obama, and he gives it to Netanyahu, the Israeli Prime Minister on the one side of the phone, Mr. Prime Minister. It is said that Mr. Erdogan accepted the Israeli President's apology. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's something strange about this, and it's a thought that the media won't catch this weirdness. 1) It is a concept in international law that countries apologize to each other. Governments make these decisions in writing as evidence of history. However, the state of Israel has apologized to Mr. Erdogan on a phone we don't know the details of. If the Israeli state was to make a real apology, it should have been asked by the Turkish state for attacking the citizens and flag of the Turkish nation, and it should have been done with a written text. The Israeli Foreign Ministry's text on the issue is not an apology text, but a text of handling the situation. Turkey's stance, on the other hand, shows that this apology was an attempt to avoid and clearly mislead Turkish public opinion. On March 22nd, the prime minister's office said Netanyahu had apologized to the Turkish people on behalf of Israel for any operational mistakes that caused the loss of life and injury, and Erdoğan accepted this apology. As we have noted above, why have we not seen a written text in accordance with the concept of international law, which states that Netanyahu had publicly apologized to the Turkish nation on behalf of the nation of Israel? The Turkish Republic's prime minister's office has made a statement about all kinds of operational mistakes, but Turkey's claim from the beginning is that this attack was carried out in international waters, planning to kill people. Turkey withdrew its claim, almost cleared Israel. I share the original action here with our nation: Mr. Prime Minister and the AKP has decided not to take over the cause of the Blue Marmara martyrs. The arguments Turkey uses are intended to exonerate Israel in the eyes of international law because it is officially accepted that the country who apologizes when the concept of apology is used in international law. In this case, the AKP government has now ruled that the Israeli operation was only a mistake. It is a concession from the AKP government to be held accountable for the decentralisation of Israel. Dear friends, the Islamists, conservatives of this country, I want everyone to hear from here: the martyring of 1.5 million Muslims, the burning of Iraq, the destruction of its history, the destruction of its existence, the killing of Muslims in Afghanistan, the martyrization, the interference of Syria, the secret force behind the PKK's scourge, the President of the United States, Obama, says he misses the voice of the President of the United States, Prime Minister. I wish to continue this longing, my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0051par0077	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0052par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0051par0079	Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0052par0080	Mr. President, I'd like to correct the fact that my AKP MP friend has given false information in terms of information.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0053par0081	Sir, it's his own information. Sundu, it's on the record. Whether public knowledge is wrong or not, this is not a rectification office. He didn't say anything about himself.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0051par0082	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0052par0083	Sir, not about me, but about my presentation, he expressed that this pollution was created entirely in terms of municipalities.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0053par0084	Sir, that's our opinion.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0052par0085	Ben, if you'll excuse me, may I finish?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0054par0086	Excuse me a moment, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0052par0087	When I'm done, I'll make a promise, sir. In this regard, Ergene stated that the basin was completely contaminated by municipalities and that the Ergene River would be cleaned up when the municipalities did all the decontamination facilities in this basin. However, when they examine that area, I especially want to say that there are huge industries in Ergene, and that there are over 90 percent industrial waste pollutants in this area. I'd appreciate it if you'd give me your word on that stand.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0054par0089	Here you go, fix it.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0052par0092	Mr. President, very valuable MPs. First of all, of course, the conclusion of my motion to investigate here was that, without any pollution of information here, we're all here together in a research commission that all of our MPs in Parliament will set up, because events, water, pollution, the politics of the environment don't exist. So if we want to leave Turkey's future water, its fresh air, its forest, we shouldn't do any different information pollution here. With the state of the Ergene River today, it is not right to just throw it on the municipalities and use their authority on it because the state is one. The municipalities are an institution of the state. In this sense, you can't ignore that the industry is polluting there while these are being taken in today's project, and 90 per cent of it today is in place, and especially when the Ministry of Environment officials leave, they will see these places. So why are we still using open channels in agriculture, not just here, about the environment, or rather about protecting our water? Why can't our irrigation ducts still be turned off, we can't get into the drip system, and we can't make decisions like this that are important? I'm specifically trying to tell you what the research commission has to do about it. This is a serious matter. Please, let's get this straight from the beginning. I'd like to point out that we will protect our water resources better, including our investments and the opening of water basins to housing areas in particular. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0055par0096	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0056par0103	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you with respect. I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's research motion to determine the potential for water resources, to protect and conscious use of water, to determine the measures that need to be taken. I salute you all again. Mr. Erol has responded on behalf of our group after a speech on behalf of the CHP. You may find that to your liking, not to your liking; there may have been some expressions that were directly ahead of your view. If what you say is true or what we say is true, those who listen will answer it. And if every person who comes in here says what I say is true, then I think we'll have an embargo on the citizen's right to choose. The dissertation, of course, will be antithesis, but it doesn't tell our speakers that it's true, it twists my words, it says that it's a free platform environment... we don't have to talk the way you want, and you don't have to talk the way we want to. I'd like to underline that first. Speaking on behalf of our group, Erol Kaya, speaking on behalf of our group on this subject, has made the work of our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and the works of State Water Affairs all very well expressed here in detail. But our friends who spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party and the MHP, although the issue is about water, their business is about the opening process, the peace process, and then Israel has done...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0057par0107	The country goes, the water goes with it. With water, the country goes. I'm just saying that there's a right to say that it has something to do with water -- probably because it has something to do with water -- and that they're taking it to an apology.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0058par0109	Where did you cook the vaccine, the vaccine?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0059par0110	Now, what do we say? From the beginning we call it one state, we call it one flag, we call it one country, we call it one nation.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0057par0111	Story, story! Pass them!
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0058par0112	What people?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0060par0113	Please! Please remain calm, members of lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0114	Against that, our Prime Minister has never been signed under any of these transactions by deceiving, concealing our nation in any way.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0062par0115	What people, what people? You can't say people's names!
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0116	There will be no process that our nation will not accept. Now, you're not going to go and do politics in that geography in the southeast, you're not even going to have a sign party there, you're going to have a say in the solution there.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0062par0118	Take the government there first, the government. Take the government there, take security there.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0119	We don't want any more bloodshed in this solution process.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0062par0120	Indulge the PKK terrorist organization, the ACK, then speak!
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0121	Now that the mothers don't cry, let's put that blood to a point and make peace in this country. Let's win, let's win, let's win, let's win, let's win, let's all win. No, we don't.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0062par0122	You put the soldier in there, you let the PKK out. Take the government there.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0123	You know what your idea of opposition is? He and Dursun were sentenced to death. They asked him: "What is your last word? " I want to see my mother. They asked Dursun: "What is your last word? Let him not see his mother." That's your idea of opposition. No, we don't want a solution, no matter where we take a good course.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0063par0124	What solution are you talking about with the traitor? What's the solution to a traitor?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0125	Praise be to God, who has given us peace in this way that we know.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0064par0126	Join hands with martyr killers, shoulder to shoulder. Hand in hand with Mehmet's killers, hand in hand.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0127	We'll get it for you, whether you want it or not, the mothers won't cry anymore. As to the matter of Israel, there were three things that we had said from the beginning. One: Israel will apologize to us. Two: compensation will be paid. Three: the embargo will be removed.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0064par0129	Don't fly Israeli planes over Iran, over Syria...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0130	Did all three of these happen? It happened. ▪ It's an anonymous document. It's called. Look, all the talks that have been made have been recorded as audio recordings, and the Israeli Prime Minister has made this official statement. We've achieved the goal of everything we've insisted on in three years.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0064par0131	Did the martyrs come back, the martyrs? Where are the nine martyrs?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0132	Oh, don't be jealous of that! Our nation and Palestine are pleased and you should be pleased. When the Palestinian people, when the whole nation is satisfied...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0064par0133	Is it over with the apology? I'll give you three liras. I'm sorry. Okay.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0061par0134	...Oh, even if this opposition does benefit, if you could bring a quality opposition in Turkey to the front of the nation in this Parliament, you could be our alternative. The more you do, the more people will vote for us. I'm just telling you to keep doing this. I want to make it clear to you that we do not agree with this group's proposal, that we should discuss the Customs Law today, that there are public expectations of commercial life in that regard. God willing, my Lord tells me that Turkey will have a good day, and I offer all of you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0065par0137	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0066par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0065par0139	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0066par0140	Sir...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0065par0142	If you'll just be quiet...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0066par0143	Mr. President, this has come to the pollution of the Ergene basin. Sir, the Turkish Grand National Assembly set up a commission in 2003 to investigate pollution in the Ergene basin. That research commission did the necessary work. On this matter, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to present a brief piece of information to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0067par0144	Mr. President, there's no such procedure, sir, you can give it to me according to 60...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0065par0145	The commission was established in 2003, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0068par0146	Edirne MP?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0067par0147	Mr. President, you can give it to me based on 60. There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0068par0148	Have you been there?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0069par0149	Congressmans, please do not interfere, let me hear what the demand is. I beg you very much.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0070par0150	Mr. President, look, we must have very serious talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to our Constitution, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey represent not only the province of which they were elected, but the entire nation.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0071par0151	There would be no such Civil Charter, no such study of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0072par0152	Everyone read the report, the report...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0070par0153	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0073par0154	Mr. Serindağ, please take your seat. I'll turn on the mike. You tell me what's necessary. Please take your seat.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0074par0155	Mr. President, in a few minutes, they'll be asking for word already according to 60.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0073par0156	Don't confuse matters, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0074par0157	Mr. President, what are you promising here?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0075par0158	According to Article 60.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0074par0159	Sir, you'll have your word on 60.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0076par0160	Come in, sir. Tell me, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0075par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, the Turkish Grand National Assembly needs full disclosure of the issues. This Parliament established a research commission in 2003 to investigate pollution in the Turkish Grand National Assembly Ergene basin. This research commission has done the necessary work, where it is and at its location. That's when I was in charge. Because of my mission, I've been informed of all matters. Now, Ergene -- you know -- comes out of the border of the 40lari province, and from the point where the River of Chorus is mixed, all the necessary -- how do I put it -- chemical waste gets mixed up. Now, this is clearly stated in the research report that was done. Second of all, it's not just the pollution of the surface waters, it's the pollution of the underground waters; it's in that report again. You know, the pollution of underground water is only caused by the underground discharge of industrial waste. I'd like to bring these matters to the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Or the pollution of the municipalities there is very little. I give you my compliments. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0077par0169	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0078par0171	Mr. President, Mr. Hatip, Mr. Recep has insulted our private party by calling it the "tabela party." If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement on behalf of our party.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0079par0173	You couldn't even have a party. He said, "It's not a party."
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0080par0174	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0078par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've always seen what levels this clerk is talking about here. Dear friends, the National Movement Party has been a major organization for forty-four years as a party, and before that, as an idea of Turkish nationalism, as a representative of Turkish nationalism, which you've been trying to lift from your head. As an organisation such as the Justice and Development Party, it is not a temporary party. Mr. Special is right, we're not going to be where he is, we're not going to be in Imralı, we're not going to be in negotiations, we're going to be in public, and he's not even going to be your sign, he's going to be your time. So, here, he knows very well himself, and he sees when he goes to Isparta, the National Movement Party will always exist, it will be everywhere in Turkey. But where won't it be? There's no way to cooperate with the separatists, with traitors, with negotiations... (Sir, we don't do it, the government does it, we don't do it, the officials do it.) So, as Mr. Special said, we don't stay behind the scenes in negotiations there, we're always with our people. As long as the Turkish nation exists, as long as the state of the Republic of Turkey exists, the nationalist Movement Party will continue to exist here as individuals, as well as in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in all the provinces of Turkey. I see it as his delusions. Like Mr. Prime Minister, I think they've been trying to shut it down here a little bit as they've seen the crowd's gratitude lately, the way they've been reacting to themselves. Instead, I think if he tried to do good work and offered good things about Isparta, I think he'd have done more work that would bring more bonuses than taunting the MPP. The National Movement Party says that as long as the state of the Republic of Turkey exists, it will be here with its sign and its party.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0081par0184	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0082par0187	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit02spe0081par0188	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Guler, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Batum, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Ekcinci, Mr. Altay, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Danışoğlu. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] We don't have enough for a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Kütahya MP Alim Ik and his friends had not been reached in sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough of a decision. We continue the talks of Bill 437. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the other motion on Article 49: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 437 Numbered Bill, which is being discussed, be replaced in the following way by Article 49. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Articles 49 - 5174 of the Law has been changed in the following way. The 100-Madde is subject to independent control under the provisions of the Court of Law on the Offices of the Association of Accounting and Control Standards, dated 26.09.2011, and its binding and related institutions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0083par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0081par0014	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0084par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0081par0016	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0085par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you once again the reasons for our motion. As our friend, who just spoke on behalf of the National Movement Party, has made it very clear that his former state is subject to the Ministry's supervision of relevant institutions of the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges. Again, this is the law of the Justice and Development Party government, but that law is then required to be changed today. The material is not moving the entity forward, and let us remind you again what it was like: once these institutions were inspected, the audit reports are presented to the Minister; if he sees the criminal element in those reports, he will refer them to the prosecution, and if the prosecution sees the need to prosecute him in this report, he will open the case and the case would be decided as a result of the trial. This was the result of a fair trial system for executives within the mechanism of justice. Now, what are you going to do: the Inspector's report will be submitted to the Minister, and when the Minister is needed, he can remove all other employees immediately -- he can remove the elected people from office with results from the court within two months. So, how's this trial gonna work? What is the system we call a simple trial in two months? What he's going to look at is the inspector's report. Do these courts have any other choice in their density to decide in two months? In this sense, it is a serious pressure on politics over these institutions. My dear friends, a question has just been asked about this, and why is the TOBB silent about it? Really, it's a question we all have to ask. Is he silent because he agrees or because he thinks it's democratic, or because he's afraid to talk? In this regard, I would like to say to Mr. Secretary that it's important for a country's economic development to lend, encourage, encourage, encourage, promote those economic actors, but for an entrepreneur, for an industrialist, for a trader, for an entrepreneur, the most essential thing is an entrepreneur's environment with true, honest and legal infrastructure beyond capital and incentives. If there is no fair and democratic initiative, you will not be able to achieve great development and development in that country's economy. For him, we need to be sensitive to the democratic climate of professional organisations. So, what do we suggest? What do we suggest? What we're suggesting is that we're suggesting a control mechanism that you've taken out in accordance with the law, and you've removed this control mechanism. In this regard, what does this control mechanism bring? This control mechanism is bringing in a modern audit. This control mechanism, in that sense, does not have an understanding that rejects the ministries. For example, in this sense, he can have the support of all ministries in these audits, but the most important issue is the responsibility that comes from control. Look, I'd like to read this to you, Mr. Secretary: the independent audit agencies and independent auditors are legally responsible for the damage that can be caused by these reports regarding the violation of the control standards of their independent audit reports on the financial table, information and reports they oversee. As we discussed this, we spoke with Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, who served in the state for many years. We tried to get the best suggestions we could from him, and that was the outcome. I don't think it's right for you to call it Turkish democracy and Turkish economic life. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0086par0025	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the Article 52 of Bill 437 be changed in the following manner. Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Izzet Cetin Müslim Sarı Kazım Kurt Aydın Agha Ayayın "The Law on Change in Laws Against Laws on Foreign Affairs No. 52 - 08/03/2007 and 5597." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 52 of the current Law Bill 437 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Alim Ik Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0087par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0086par0046	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0088par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0086par0048	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0089par0049	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0086par0050	I'm reading the reason: With this clause, there is a change in the Law on Foreign Expeditioner No. 5597 concerning the Law and Changes in Various Laws. For all of our citizens who want to travel, it's almost like a extortion situation, which means visas for their own citizens of the state to leave the country. While the government prides itself on the number of countries in which they have lifted visas, it is a contradiction that our citizens by their own hand restrict freedom of travel. In this case, non-constitutional exfil is a violation of the Constitution. While there are only a few countries in the world that are out of practice and should be removed from abroad as soon as possible, this clause in the bill contains a provision for the continuation of foreign exodus allowances. The bill is an arrangement given to the Council of Ministers that will not find the authorization and the application area. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the Article 52 of Bill 437, which is currently in session, in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends The Law on Change in Laws Against Laws on Foreign Expedition No. 5597, dated 52-08/03/2007, has been lifted from effect." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0090par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0086par0061	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0091par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0086par0063	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0092par0065	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our motion recommends that the foreign exfil be removed completely from the system. So he's not only recommending that this clause be removed from the bill, he's also recommending that the foreign exfil be removed completely. Now, for one thing, foreign exfil is not a tax or a similar arrangement in accordance with the definition of tuition. A portion of what the state offers is what citizens pay as a price for joining in the ministry in exchange for certain services, and this is what it's called. There is no service offered by the state on foreign exfil. First of all, there's something wrong with this. There's an anomaly. Second: the Constitution guarantees freedom of travel. When you go abroad, you haven't paid your tuition, so you can't go abroad. It's against the Constitution's guarantee of freedom of travel, which is guaranteed. Governments have an interest in receiving tuition from people who have gone abroad. From time to time, this curiosity gets bigger. The foreign exfil first entered our system in 1963. At that time, everyone who leaves Turkey under the name of the foreign travel spending tax is obliged to pay this tax. For many years, this tax was imposed, and then it became unproductive, and it was removed. As the late Turkut Özal became Prime Minister, he made it necessary to pay off those who left the country with an application called the Community Housing Fund. This proved to be a failure, not an efficient practice and contrary to the modern image of Turkey, and was lifted from the force. In 2001, the government at the time brought this back. For those who go abroad, they will receive an allowance for 50 American dollars. It's starting to work. The Justice and Development Party governments are in charge. A change was made in 2007. The government at the time brought in the bill at the time, passed the law, went into effect. They reduced the $50 tuition to $15 and made the application permanent, so they made it more institutional. In fact, when we defend 15 liras, we remove exceptions, we get this tuition from everyone, we raise more money. I'll give you the numbers: in 2006, the amount of this fee was 102 million TL, and in 2007, the amount of the year of 2007 dropped to 58.8 million TL. The current gross is $67 million, year 2002. The year after the first application year of this tuition is $61 million. So ten years later, the government gets the proceeds from ten years ago. It's not productive. There is another sentence here: The Council of Ministers will decide who will not be paid abroad. The Council of Ministers will say: "Let Ahmet not pay this fee, let Mehmet not pay this tuition." Would such authority be valued? The Constitution has the principle of equality, the principle of the generality of taxes, the Constitution has many principles, let's put aside these principles... there's reason, there's common sense, there's common sense, there's authority in our current constitutional system. Such personal, subjective, malicious practices cannot be given to the Council of Ministers. This tax must be revoked. On the one hand, we've set a goal of entering the European Union... and our Minister for the European Union is here. I mean, is it appropriate for the Republic of Turkey to receive foreign exfils from every citizen of the Republic of Turkey who goes abroad? You can't go abroad without paying this tuition. Is it appropriate for the Republic of Turkey? Is it true that the Republic of Turkey, a candidate for full membership in the European Union, has the right to submit you to an application in the form of "I will not allow you to leave the country without paying for its own citizens?" Wrong. Come on, let's put this app out of business. And the receipt shows that this tax is inefficient. The numbers are in the hands of the government. There's a down payment going down. Which means the application isn't efficient either. Come on, let's all put this away. I know you all agree with me, but now you're going to look at Mr. Secretary and your group deputy, and raise your hand according to him. Hopefully we'll get it up in the future. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0093par0077	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 52 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 52 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 53: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 53 of the 437 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Secrets by Darayya Leader Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0094par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0093par0089	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0095par0090	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0093par0091	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0096par0092	Mr. President, our motion on this clause is related to the illegal fuel. I want to tell you two things: one of them, 34 of our citizens in the Şırnak border province (Uludere), was bombed and killed by F-16 aircraft because of 1 canister of diesel across the border to earn 50 lira-100 lira. A parliamentary research commission was established in the Human Rights Commission, but unfortunately, in this case, who issued the order to strike, who identified the Herons, who evaluated them, who fired them, and no authorities, including the General Staff, without informing them, there is no decision in this information, there is no decision on this investigation, there is no decision on the basis of the evidence. Unfortunately, in this case, the Parliament, the AK PARTI majority group, who committed 34 counts of crimes, which required 34 heavy life sentences. History will write it down, but we're making it clear that we're not going to leave it to history. Those mothers were screaming at the front door in the morning, and they threw out their birth certificate, and they said, "Where is this wallet?" Where is its citizenship? You cannot find the perpetrator; you are not informed; they do not know the will of the assembly. The special criminal court says it's a secret investigation, the General Staff says it's classified, the prosecution's bureaucracy of the court is being shut down, and you're covering it up by filing a report saying there's no intention. It will take a long time to discuss it, until the perpetrators of human rights, law, justice, conscience scales are brought to trial, but I hope that steps are taken before this spread to a long time; in the face of this pain, the government somehow connects with the families, takes another step, and takes a new step to contribute to this solution process. Why did I say that? This is the data from the Ministry, my friends, about fuel smuggling on the border. Istanbul is where the most trafficking is done. Why? They're smuggling it out of the sea with the Grostons. Şırnak, look, at the lowest, 33. So, do the F-16 planes on the tankers rain bombs on the Grostons? No. Then there's a cross-eyed one here. Let me tell you something else. We're discussing the Customs Act. Well, then, since 1995, with the customs unit, we've been knocking the chain on our feet, always paying tribute. If you think of radical changes, come correct the situation of Turkey, which you have imposed on free trade contracts. Fix it, it's the right thing to do, but you can't do it. Since 1995, when the European Union makes a free trade agreement with a country, Turkey must also do so. Now the European Union will make this contract with the United States, Turkey will go under the wall. Turkey pays extra taxes because it is not a member of the European Union. Look, beyond all that, take a good look at this picture. See that tribute, fellas? Extortion stamps, extortion. It's an outlet stamp. I told you when I was talking about the whole thing, this tribute was set up for a period of time for the housing fund, not a lifetime. Remove this tribute, and don't let our citizens walk around with these stamps. If you remove these stamps, you will receive the blessings of the people. When this law is discussed today, it is written on the stamp of money, and the stamp of tribute - remove it. This call is sincere. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0097par0101	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 53 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "two years to five years" in Article 54 of the 437 rows of the Common Law Bill shall be changed into "30 thousand days" in the form of "three to six years." Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Alim Ik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 437 Common Customs Act and the 54th Amendment to some Laws and Laws. We propose and propose that Article 3 of Law 5607 replaced by Article 11 be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Kazim Kurt Müslim Sarı Mehmet Ali Sesam According to the results of the Akredite lab analysis, a person who does not have a national marker at the level set by the Energy Market Editor's Office and who is legally free to travel in Turkey with other documents and information that are not available or whose origin is unregistered; who manufactures, sells, sells, possession, knowingly purchases this property, or hides it for commercial purposes, or carries it for up to two years, and is sentenced to up to twenty thousand days in prison. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the draft text, which stipulates that Article 3 of Article 54 of the 437 Numbered Law Bill, Article 5607, shall be issued in accordance with Article (1) of the Law. Secret by Darayya Önder Erol Dora İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0098par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0097par0126	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0099par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0097par0128	I'm reading the reason: This amendment, which regulates trafficking crimes, is particularly at a point that ignores the real situation of citizens living in the border areas of the Kurds in Turkey and ignores the fact that there are no alternative sources of income. The fact that these acts, which have been trafficked in border areas and are legally considered guilty, are now publicly known to be a condition where the public is obliged as a result of official state policies. While criminal arrangements for these activities were being made, social reality and conditions were not considered. The aim is to address additional victims with change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 437 Law of Customs and the 54th Amendment to some Laws and Laws shall be adopted. We propose and propose that Article 3 of Law 5607 replaced by Article 11 be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends According to the results of the Akredite lab analysis, a person who does not have a national marker at the level set by the Energy Market Editor's Office and is legally free to travel in Turkey with other documents and information that can't be submitted or without origins; the manufacturer, the seller, the seller, the seller, the buyer, the person who deliberately purchases this property, or hides it for commercial purposes, is sentenced to two to up to five years in prison and twenty thousand days in criminal fines. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0100par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0097par0139	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0101par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0097par0141	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0102par0143	Mr. President, good lawmakers, there are certain things that need to be made very clear in order for the purpose of taking measures on this law to eliminate trafficking. Now, I just told you about the taxes, but there are other problems. For example, on April 1st, the license extension of tobacco and alcohol-selling businesses expires. So far, the number of licenses available to these businesses is 35 percent of the total. 11,000 places are unregistered. The minister may say: "This institution does not belong to me, it belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture. " This institution also has other problems. The legal status of this institution is now in a vacuum. It's not being arranged either.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0103par0145	There is no such institution! There is no such institution!
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0102par0146	Mr. Mevlüt says there is no such institution. But this institution did this: In the past, the licenses of businesses, trade shops, were given by the rooms, and the rooms followed, called, and gave them in the proper manner. Now, getting a license from TAPDK is back to getting water from his waist, so the shopkeeper can't go and get a license from places authorized by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Board. Here's an example: Let's say the dry coffee shop -- the one with the dry coffee on the opening license -- you're a dry coffee shop, you can't sell alcohol, you can't sell cigarettes. Is that an understanding, my friend? Isn't it a fact that dry coffee guys have been selling alcohol and selling cigarettes for years? So much hardship, the allowances, the annual fees, have been raised to a very high point. Anyway, the grocery store, the dealership, they're in a tough spot. Minister, I'll tell you this on this occasion: for years, by not passing the hypermarket law, this section has only come to the point of selling certain products; one of them is cigarettes, alcohol, bread, newspapers. Now, you're taking away their license, which means you don't give these people the right to live. If you want to avoid smuggling in this matter, you need to make it easier to get a license. I see dozens of countertops selling illegal cigarettes while traveling through some of the cities -- sitting at the head of a street -- in this regard. While these can be sold without interference, it is not understandable to have a hard time getting licenses for those who have officially done this job. When we build these institutions, we have to do it not to create difficulties, but to open the way for those who do it, to make it more orderly, to prevent the fugitive. The only way to prevent a fugitive is to get people into a legal environment. I just want to say one more thing. In the diesel, in the engine, in the gas, Turkey's situation should also be revealed. The price of 1 litre of gasoline is 93 eurocent, the average of the European Union is 53 eurocent; the price of the engine used by the village is 68 eurocent, the average of 27 European Unions is 41 eurocent; 1 kilogram of LPG is 76 eurocent, the average of the European Union is 16 eurocent. When you think you're getting 18 percent VAT over the OTV, we become the most expensive country in Europe. I offer this to your attention. If you say, "This is an unfair tax system, and the tax is unfair. " Tax justice is not granted in a country with a tax from the consumer, not from the winner, nor is the fugitive prevented. So I propose to you again from here: lower the rates of these, open the legal platform for this work, and provide tax justice in the country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0104par0155	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "two years to five years" in Article 54 of the 437 rows of the Common Law Bill shall be changed into "30 thousand days" in the form of "three to six years." Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0105par0162	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0104par0163	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0106par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0104par0165	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0107par0167	Mr. President, I've made a commitment on the 54th Amendment, of course. However, I apologize to all of you, and I must speak again about another matter regarding this bill due to an urgent development. I hope you understand. Dear friends, the first time this bill came to the Commission, there was an arrangement on the condition of the 44th Article and the state of these licensed map engineering offices. This arrangement, of course, was a positive, right and justice arrangement in the form of extending a judicial decision to a legal basis and preventing certain rights and deprivations. However, there were later developments in the Commission, and we learned that with the introduction of Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Bayraktar, after some lobbying activities, this Article 44 has been withdrawn from the bill, and Mr. Secretary of State has stated that an adjustment and regulation will be taken care of until the General Assembly talks. So We accepted it as a word from the government, and We did not transgress beyond bounds. Why? The government says there's time until the General Assembly and there'll be an arrangement. Now, at this hour, we're learning that this licensed map is being decided to shut down offices regarding cadastro engineers. As of March 29, 2013, it has been decided that the operations of these licensed map cadastro engineering offices should be halted, and its current operations and operations will be concluded by April 10, 2013, within ten days. Now, dear friends, this -- we've expressed in our defenses, we've done the challenges and the necessary warnings -- is an important situation that concerns 2,000 employees, family and their alimony, and it's a situation that will victimize about 10,000 people, and it also undermines the credibility of the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate, and, frankly, it's a case of people who are in a right position to lose their jobs because of the dissolution of the exam, or by the licensed engineers who are in this office, who are in a position to lose their jobs. I say to the government: "Please, don't play with bread, don't take away the law of the oppressed, and don't sacrifice justice and justice to your fellow sergeants. With these thoughts, while time is at hand, while these draft talks are not over, I invite all of us to make a new arrangement on this matter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0108par0174	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 54 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 55, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is available in Article 55 (9) of Law Bill 437 in which it is held. We offer and propose that it be changed in the form of the declaration. Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Alim Ik Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0109par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0108par0186	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0110par0187	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0108par0188	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0111par0189	Özcan Yeniçeri will speak.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0108par0190	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0112par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Customs Act and to the motion we made on Article 55 of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. I hereby salute the High Council. Customs are the ontological symbols of a country. As there is a linear relationship between customs and security, there is also a very close link between customs and terrorism, and let us stress that first. Of course, this bag of laws is actually due to a need, and it contains elements that really, in every sense, bring order, a lack of it, a social contribution. But if the bag is in the law, then know that there's something hidden inside that bill amongst dozens of articles of law. It's almost as if every bag of laws is hiding something. Now, institutional and structural shortcomings make everything necessary by law. Where everything is regulated by the law, the law is short-lived. There is also a linear relationship between the briefness of the law's life and the sensitivity to legislation. Needless to say, the laws passed in haste, social structure and reality would be short-lived. The more bags of law are presented to the House, the less serious it is to make laws. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has practically turned into a factory that has passed a series of laws and has made laws to regulate its laws. This states that the interests and social responses of the laws adopted are problematic. The AKP is both experienced and has a criminal record in drafting a decision on the law and the law. The Customs Act, which is being discussed, and the Bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws and Laws, of course, is also a product of a need, but it is necessary to make it a legal obligation for smugglers to be declared by the Ministry. However, the declaration of smugglers has been passed by this law on the initiative of the administration; we do not find it right. Trafficking in fuel products also threatens the economy as well as the use of terrorism in financing. The most important factor is terrorism, which provides a comfortable environment for fuel smuggling, which renders all control and control ineffective. Notice, where there's terrorism, there's all kinds of illegality and fuel smuggling. The mechanism that plans smuggling, manages, controls it, distributes and uses it includes a terrorist organization. That's why the map of smuggling and the map of terrorism, which is based on the places of terrorism in Turkey today, is one-on-one. To prevent this major damage to the country's economy, the removal of unfair competition requires decisive, planned, and effective work on illegal fuel. In order to prevent illegal fuel, an effective co-ordination between state units must be achieved, planned and decisively following major and organised smuggling movements. It is imperative that the process of law on fuel smuggling be accelerated and activated. It is far from deterrent to those who are still inclined to pursue such activities. According to Article 55, if the illegal fuel sale is carried out with tanks, equipment and equipment, the penalty will be doubled and increased. It is natural to increase the punishment for organised, methodical and equipped trafficking, but it should also be known that the problem is not just law enforcement. Refuel smuggling is just one of the most efficient forms of smuggling. These traffickers have become immune to laws and measures. Anti-fuel smugglers have internalized all kinds of illegal work, all kinds of savings, experience, and techniques. In that case, those who struggle with it must become as experienced, sophisticated, and technical as they are. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0113par0205	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 55 is accepted. There are two motions on item 56, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the final sentence of Article 56 of the current 437 rows of the Law Bill (6) be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Necati Özensoy Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Alim Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th and 6th jokes of Law Charter 437 shall be removed from the draft text, which regulates Article 56.07 of the Law. Secret by Darayya Önder Erol Dora İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0114par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0113par0223	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0115par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0113par0225	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0116par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion we made on Bill 437. I salute your committee. Of course, there are some arrangements here, especially for fuel smuggling. In fact, we know that the real share of what was stolen from the national fortune is that we are smuggling large, trillions of fuel in the western provinces, but so far the state has literally failed to fight this smuggling method. I mean, in terms of methods that satisfy the public, satisfy the public, expose and expose these trillion-year-old profits, unfortunately, this government has not fulfilled its own responsibility, including the government. However, at the border height, especially in the cities where Kurds live busy, to provide for themselves, to bring bread to their own home, because of this obligation, any punishment for the workers, including death, has also been imposed on them. So when we open the records, we can see very clearly how many of these villagers, who had to trade borders to support their family in Van, in the Ringer, in Hakkari, in Şırnak, and in order to support their family, were killed in the year, and there were no alternative plans made about them. Here's a recent sample right here. So we've all seen what kind of deliberate report is being filed on Roboski, which will have the conscience of every member of parliament calling themselves human. Today, 70-80-year-old mothers spent half an hour at the door of the House trying to address the conscience of this House in the rain. They tried to shout out to the world how an intentional report from this House, where they had their hopes for this great massacre in the middle, for this great drama, was staged to cover up the massacre. What did we do? We tried to settle the account for the children whose lives and bodies we'd torn apart for a can of diesel that was hidden in front of us yesterday. Look, for a week now, every government official has been explaining how the Israeli state has achieved its foreign policy success over its apology to Turkey for the Blue Marmara. That's right, so it's a foreign policy success. However, this government should have done what Israel did, and this Parliament should have done against the villagers of Roboski. In the end, because they were poor, because they were hungry, because we didn't create alternative jobs, because we didn't provide them with enough economic future, there was an effort to earn their own lives by putting on a can of diesel, but there came to all this effort, organized intelligence, Heron images, orders, shredded bodies, funerals, and reports that would bleed the conscience of all the people. The AK PARTY Group, in particular, has to give up this error as soon as possible. In terms of the next process, we think it's your duty as government to apologize to Roboski villagers, to satisfy this heartbreak with Roboski villagers, and it's not hard to do that. When you do, we will also open a door that will lead to peace, a solution to the formation of this new process. Therefore, I particularly hope that you reconsider the current situation with Roboski. And in the two days this report is discussed, we're talking about fuel smuggling, descriptions of this smuggling, punishments. I don't suppose any of you would have come up here and told me at a time when the punishments for the oil smuggling were being discussed, that the punishment for that activity those peasants had done was to be shredded funerals. Again, I salute the General Assembly by speaking to all of you on your conscience.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0117par0233	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentence of Article 56 (6) of the current law bill 437 rows be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0118par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0117par0241	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0119par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0117par0243	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0120par0245	Mr. President, I have renegotiated the motion we made in Article 56 of the proposed bill. On this occasion, I salute the High Council once again. Dear lawmakers, smuggling is a sociological and criminal case in itself. Avoiding smuggling is more a matter of conscience than a matter of law. Trafficking is not just a matter for police and soldiers, law enforcement and customs personnel to fight, and in this regard, all of the country's institutions must address this problem in serious coordination. The problem of smuggling is not only with such substances as cigarettes, fuel, gold, drugs, but also with serious problems such as immigration and human trafficking in recent years. I'd like to emphasize that smuggling should be evaluated in this respect beyond the classical meaning. Now, look, the amendment to the 56th amendment to this bill that we're currently negotiating, the Ministry of Customs and Trade says that any purchases of goods, equipment, equipment and services as part of a return capital operation do not apply to the provisions of Public Relations Act 4/1/2002 and 4734. This substance is said to have been placed here, considering the efficiency and quickness of the tender. The ruling circles are constantly defending this thesis. Earlier, a substance was placed there to be kept outside the Public Contraction Act for laptop computers and systems, which would take place between 20 billion and 80 billion per decade during the 4+4+4 education system. While many more laws are being passed, the tenders under that law are immediately added under the non-constitutional clause of the Public Contraction Act. The AKP stipulates that the provisions of the Public Contracting Law will not be enforced in the tenders related to this law, adding a clause to each law that appears to be connected to automated. It's as if the public contract law is a law not to be enforced. That's because the government doesn't like control, and that's why it's discussing the separation of forces. The government also dislikes opposition as a natural consequence of its dislike of control. The 11 years of AKP's power, as such, has been the sole power of enjoyment and wastefulness. The ruling authorities seem to be spending their taxes on the strange guru, the poor poverty, in the scattering model. Smuggling isn't just criminal individuals and organisations, and power shouldn't be smuggling. That's another form of smuggling, when the government misses tenders in this sense from the control of the law. Every kind of smuggling is bad, and you have to stand up to them all in every way. It is imperative that the ministries pay more attention than anything to spend the money entrusted to them on the public's behalf. Now, when it comes down to this, I'm gonna have to tell you this. Dear lawmakers, if a person were to pay out of his own pocket, would he be able to rent a dwelling with $48,000 a month's rent, or would he live there? Not according to us, but if the rent is paid from the state's budget, then it's Paşa. I'm talking about the Foreign Minister's residence. The monthly rent fee paid is 48 thousand lira per month for this dwelling. Foreign Minister Davutoglu's rent payment for four years is $1,820,794 Turkish lira paid by the state, from our budget, from the poor, from the poor, from the strange guru. In four years, 10 million 857,134 lira 18 cents has been paid for the service building of the Press Information General Directorate. With this money, it's possible to build and buy two buildings like that building. I don't count the others, so I don't count a dozen. Last time I brought it, I warned the authorities, I gave it to the vice presidents to sort it out. As long as you don't figure it out, we'll keep bringing it here. This means that people's taxes are being prodded, some kind of smuggling. I wish you all the best in this law, in spite of everything, to the country, to the nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit03spe0121par0253	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 58 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 84th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 437. The commission and the government are in place. We stayed on the 59th article. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose that Article 16/A shall be replaced in the following manner, which is envisioned to be added to Article 5607 under Article 59 of the Law Against Trafficking Act. Mustafa Elitaş Ali Gültekin Kınc İsmail Sun Mehmet Erdem Zülfü Demirbağ Bayram Özçelik Ahmet Berat Kokonkar Adnan Yılmaz " (4) In the event that the trial results in favour of the dispossessed fuel owners, the amount left after taxes have been dropped from the total price of the sale of the illegal fuel that was sold, but if the fuel is earmarked, the price set by the third joke decree, other than taxes, will be paid to the owner of the institution's budget for the duration of which the decision was finalized from the deadline until the decision was finalized. The funds will be transferred to relevant institutions of the Ministry of Finance." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0122par0016	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0017	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0123par0018	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0019	Am I making you read the reason, sir?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0124par0020	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0021	I'm reading the reason: The reason is that the law added Article 16/A to Article 5607 and the illegal fuel in accordance with technical regulations and the customs law 4458 will be approved by the customs administrations of the fuel that has been liquidated, as well as by other public institutions and organizations and local administrations, without charge, or by selling it. However, due to the serious inconvenience of the containment of this property and the possibility of loss of value and loss of value, the judge or the court must be immediately purged without a warrant. The liquidation of illegal fuel by selling or allocation must be determined in a way that does not cause hesitations about what budget to be paid if the trial results in favour of the person. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 59th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 61, I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In Article 61 of the 437 Numbered Law Bill, we propose and propose that the benchmarks B, C, and D be removed from the draft text, which will be added to Article 23 of Law 5607. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0125par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0035	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0126par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0037	I'm reading the reason: Turkey's purchase of fuel from socio-economic conditions at the border height of Kurdish cities is being made today within the knowledge of many border outposts and law enforcement forces. The public knows that the villagers have paid a certain price for the authorities here. There will be serious problems and sacrifices as a result of this kind of informational livelihood, legal regulation that is being applied around here. Such arrangements must be made, especially given the situation in the border villages of Kurdish cities. With the change, it is intended to enable more effective practices to be carried out in resolving more extensive and victims. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 62, I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the term "three months" in Article (3) of Act 5607, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 62 of the 437 Numbered Law Bill, shall be changed to "four months." Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0127par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0051	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0128par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0053	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to extend the period of prosecution and reduce the risk of possible error. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 65th article that I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The Law Proposal 437 is 65. We offer and propose that Articles be changed in the following way. Article 65-5607 has been added to the following temporary clause. "The establishment of Metropolitan Municipality in 14 provinces and 27 districts in No. 6360 and the establishment of 27 districts and the establishment of changes in the Constitution of the Law and the Law shall be handed over to the municipalities of Major City, where all facilities, warehouses, instruments and other technical equipment used for the liquidation of illegal fuel, are in the possession of private administrations, which have been removed by the Law and by the rule of law." Secret by Darayya Leader Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0129par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0070	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0130par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0121par0072	I'm reading the reason: Local governments need to create economic resources for our municipalities to be strengthened. The District of Metropolitan and 26 Districts of Thirteen Provinces, No. 6360, dated 12.11.2012, and the borders and responsibilities of the Metropolitan municipalities and the Law on the Constitution of the Law and Law have been changed. In order for our municipalities to fully carry out their responsibilities and contribute to local strength and democracy, additional revenues must be created in our municipalities. Therefore, all assets belonging to the state's private administration must be transferred to our municipalities. For these reasons, the material text has been offered to be changed. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The commission has a request for a reduction.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0131par0078	Mr. President, we have a request for a correction on Article 65. After the completion of the Commission talks on March 14, 2013, we demand that the article be redacted within this scope, since the Council of the Metropolitan Municipality and the Council of the Law of the Law and the Council of the Law have been changed into Substitution of the Law and Law.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0132par0080	For the sake of the army...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0133par0081	With this request for reduction, I submit to your votes the 65th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 68th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on the 70th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that "50 per cent" be changed to "100 per cent" at the end of the 70th article of the current bill of the 437 rows. Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayayalın Müslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and release the bill from the draft text of the "other" declaration " and the 'burdens' in its first and third jokes, " which is part of Article 437, under the 70th article of the Law bill. Nazmi Gür Ayla Akat Pervin Buldan İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzeyya Leader Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 70th article of the current Law Bill, 437 rows, be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Alim Ik Does the commission agree with this motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0134par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0133par0109	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0135par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0133par0111	Mr. Shandir, who will speak?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0136par0112	Kemalettin Yilmaz will speak, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0133par0113	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0137par0114	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the motion we made as the Nationalist Movement Party regarding the 70th Article of the Law Bill 437 rows under discussion. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it is considered that the authority to establish a marketplace with the relevant clause under the absolute control of municipalities should be left to the real and legal people. In a manner of speaking, the neighborhood markets are being privatized. Such an approach is never, ever acceptable. Market places in our country are more than just areas where supply and demand meet. In addition to economic activities, they are a serious cultural element and social integration areas in our country. Besides the laws, regulations and regulations, there are laws, customs, and customs that are not written, but strictly observed. Under the resources provided by the municipalities and under the control of the municipality, the areas where our people produce in their villages, towns, and trades are offered to buyers, some of our people's services are marketed. These places are also public spaces in which urban populations and villages, producers, and commercial, social, and cultural interactions are fused with foreign traders. It must be protected, protected, and kept alive. Today, our markets are threatened by both society markets and supermarkets and major shopping malls. This law, allowing the establishment of private markets, will also lead the current marketplaces away from the municipalities. When the markets are out of control of the municipality, the conditions of monopoly, unfair competition will prevail, while our producer and last user, our consumer, will be severely damaged. With privatisation, our markets will fall into the hands of a small minority with capital power. Free from municipal supervision, the investors will be able to determine prices however they want, and they will be able to victimize our citizens. Most importantly, there will be no market places where real manufacturers can sell their products. It's very important that our people, who produce a thousand trials and difficulties, sell their products for their value. Our plant-based and animal-producing people, as well as the excess of their back-bending input costs, are being removed from markets like this, you'll be nailing the coffin of agriculture with another nail. Every day in our country, the number of producers is dropping, and the amount of land produced by agricultural production is diminishing. Also, with this bill, the traderooms will be dysfunctional. Because it is inevitable that the owners of the capital will be involved in their own nearby markets or people they know. As such, the marketer's tradesman will not be able to enter these market spaces, will grow weaker, smaller, unable to compete, and eventually face extinction. Thus, the trade rooms, which have a social and institutional quality, can unfortunately become dysfunctional. However, the continuation of the marketer's business that earns its daily sale is a requirement of the social state principle. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this sentiment and in these thoughts, I would like to ask you to support our motion. He says don't touch our markets, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0138par0122	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to remove the "other declarations" which have been "separated on the 70th article of the 437 row bill, or not to block the original allocation area" and the "burdens of the 'forums' in their first and third jokes" from the draft text. Nazmi Gür (Van) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0139par0129	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0138par0130	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0140par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0138par0132	I'm reading the reason: Other areas, which have been set aside in the matter, are deluding the development plans, provided it does not interfere with the original purpose of allocation. It also contradicts municipal law. The removal of city halls will create uncertainty in the existing laws. It was intended to be fixed by change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that "50 per cent" be changed to "100 per cent" at the end of the 70th article of the current bill of the 437 rows. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0141par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0138par0142	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0142par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0138par0144	Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0143par0146	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers said, "I don't agree." The government said, "What did we want, what didn't they join?" Friends, the marketplace is the people, the people, the service, the service of the people, the service of the people, the service of the righteous. There are people and there are people who put their goods on the back of the truck at 3:00 a.m., and there's a market-to-market every day at six o'clock in the morning, and when it closes at nine o'clock in the evening, it's twelve, and there's bread on the back of the truck, and there's bread on the back of the truck, and there's bread at twelve, and there's bread on the back of the truck. We all have to respect this bread and butter. There's a bread on its back, it's got goods on its back, and it works for 16 hours, folks. We say this is a social service. The municipalities are in charge of this service. Don't give these to anyone, don't deliver them to the private sector, don't deliver the people, don't deliver the marketeer. First he had a transfer to the private sector on his way to the Commission. Joint will, we sat down, we argued, all together, with the Marketers' Association. They've agreed to 50 per cent, logically, since we've given a reasonable suggestion to the Minister and the Deputy Minister here, but we want it to be 100 per cent. So giving the marketer, the people, into the hands of the private company, takes them to different heights, friends; goods get expensive, market places get picked up by someone. This is a public service. Dear friends, marketing isn't easy, we have to respect that. Certainly, if we respect these people, it's the city channel, but there's got to be a structure that's going to be under the control of the city together while we're building a Commission's will on more than 50 per cent of it, Mr. Secretary. Otherwise, there'll be problems tomorrow, otherwise a company with 51 percent of the municipality will cooperate with someone, Mr. Secretary. Let's make it 100 percent. We appreciated this: If there are empty places that are reserved for different purposes, but are not used, municipalities can make temporary markets here. It was the right stuff. The point is, if the vacant lot was still there, it was nice to create a space where marketers could easily move their goods and sell them, but they have to be modern. The fixed markets in particular need to be very modern, in terms of the public, in terms of markets, but the markets in the middle of the street need to be very well controlled, and they need to be disciplined. Sometimes in the rain, in the mud, you see these people, really these people, we all feel hurt. While we're loading that stuff on your back in that rain, while the goods go to waste, sometimes our conscience aches. My dear friends, what we say is, don't leave the people or the marketer in anyone's hands. It's a public service. Come and accept this motion. The statement referred to as 51 percent, more than 50 percent in the commission will be more comfortable if we all do this 100 percent together with our conscience. Let's not hand over the marketers and the people to anyone. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0144par0153	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0143par0155	Mr. Elitaş, public service is a service to Hakk. [HIP rows ▪Bravobooks, applause; applause from the AK PARTY rows (!)
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0145par0156	That's right.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0144par0157	I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the third section are complete. We will now begin the talks of section four. Chapter 4 contains articles 72 to 91. In chapter four, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0146par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the fourth chapter of Bill 437, which is being discussed. I salute your high council. Customs administrations are among the most important institutions in a country, so they need to be well managed, unfortunately that hasn't been accomplished in 11 years. During this period, the customs service has faced more problems than ever before. The power of attorney has been transformed into the management form of customs. In 11 years, it has become negotiable in the public opinion of how many undersecretaries have changed. Before the 2011 general elections, the Ministry of Customs and Trade of the Ministry of Industry and Trade combined and established the Ministry of Customs and Trade. Customs and domestic trade combined to form a freaky ministry, so to speak. How do the service areas of these two organizations match? It's an extremely informal structure. During this period of power, the bag has never been given up on the law, but the concept of the bag is inadequate. You have to think of other names. A draft of a law is presented to parliament, and then it is included in whatever comes to mind. Bills prepared in a hurry are referred to Parliament with many errors. While drafting legislation, even the most basic rules of the Constitution are ignored. The specific provisions of Article 640 have been revoked by the Constitutional Court. This law also envisions reorganisation of cancelled substances. The Constitutional Court found some of the provisions of the ordinance to be contrary to the 91st Article of the Constitution. This is the clause titled "to give the authority to issue a decree in the rule of law." Look, Mr. Secretary, the authors who are now acting with the government in the newspapers have really started to explain the suffering of the officials of the Ministry of Finance, of other ministry officers walking outside the door of members of the Constitutional Court. This is not a matter for the government to rejoice in or boast about. Unfortunately, the government has issued a decree to determine matters that cannot be carried out under the law without its authority. This is a serious matter that should not be overlooked by the government. Unfortunately, who is unaware of their authority and does not know the limits of their authority, is putting the country in a deadlock. It is encouraged by the Council of Ministers' decision, but the Minister's commission says a few days ago, it must be addressed to the law. We say: Is this necessary? You're in charge. Will the industry not benefit from what you have brought if we do not consolidate this law? Then why do you call this place? There's no answer when we say it. Two things come to mind: Either you're afraid of what you do or you're doing something to be feared. That's where the trouble is. When we look at these changes, it becomes clear that either you don't know how to make laws or you try to cover up what you do. In fact, it's a very strange situation. Because you don't know the economy, you don't know democracy, you think it's a means of transportation. His education, public administration, and the laws that you don't know about, is obvious by these drafts. A number of changes are being made in the Law on Trade Law 6102, Vegetables and Fruits No. 5957, and Trade of Needs, Law on Trafficking Law 5607, Law on Debts No. 6098, Ministry of Customs and Trade, Agency and Missions of the Ministry of Commerce 640. Of course, it is natural to change the laws and to change them. But the main reason for these changes, unfortunately, is not the changing conditions of the country; unfortunately, the lack of knowledge, ignorance of power, will be what I say. I will do what I want, even if it is against the law. It is due to his desire. In the early years of the Republic, the Law of Men and Tracking 1918, released in 1932, remained in force for seventy-one years. In your day, the Law on Anti-Trafficking was issued in 2003, and Law number 5607 was passed in 2007. In 2009, by Law 5911, some changes were made in this law. The Law on Anti-Trafficking 5607 is a special penal code issued during your time. In previous laws, a significant portion of the verbs that were considered a smuggling offense were organized with this law as a misdemeanor. Most of the verbs now held as misdemeanor are now being reduced to administrative fines within the Customs Act. When the tax burden on fuel products and tobacco products is so high, you can't prevent smuggling when there's a gap between prices in nearby markets and prices in the domestic market. As a matter of fact, the PKK would have put you on the border. Cigarettes are sold everywhere, tariffs are in the square, spoken everywhere. It's your rule whether it's oil number 10 or fuel, or illegal cigarettes. You can still see the number 10 oil on the roads when you're on the road, everywhere, even though the minister is talking so much. If you try to sell the world's most expensive gasoline in a country far below the income level of developed countries, that's the result. During your time in the ministry, trafficking is also mentioned in the press every day -- as I have just expressed -- that PKK has established customs duties in the goods. At the Ministry of Customs and Commerce, it seems that the employees' problems are also ignored. The minister's desires and pleasures are at the forefront of the AKP's demands. During the past legislature, this was the case in the study of the Agency's law. Unions, associations, employees have expressed problems. That day, you closed your ears to these problems, and now I see that the ears are still closed. You've brought in customs regulations. Where was he for two years? It's on the commission. I was a subcommittee, but you didn't even know that even though the State Staff was yours, you'd be authorized to issue a decree under the law. As a matter of fact, after the bill came and signed an anonymous commission request in Parliament, you learned this -- what did you do -- because you didn't know it because you didn't know it was going through the Council of Ministers, but you didn't know it. I took another look at the Ministry's website. The website is not a public administration website. The website is the Minister's Web site, where statements of people who slandered us about what we did. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? You still haven't apologized. I haven't read the DPT reports, and I'm proud to read them, and I'm proud to read them, but you're not in a position to understand them -- and I'm very clear. So, once the law comes out, we'll make new changes, and then we'll fix it. The approach reveals the phenomenon of law inflation in Turkey. Statistically, the number of laws adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at a certain time is no indication of performance. What does the AKP really want to do with the bill? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Trying to cover up their shame. I salute the grand jury. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0147par0186	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Silver. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0148par0190	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed MPs, I salute you all. I'd like to state that this bag of legislation we're interviewing is sloppy. A total of 90 articles is called the Customs Law Bill, but 1/5 is about customs. I'd like to point out how much the fact that every irrelevant subject is brought into a bag of law enforcement has reduced our quality of making laws, that very important issues have become undisputable in the General Assembly meetings. The AKP government has made it a habit to fill the bag with laws, whether it is relevant or irrelevant, whatever it has already forgotten. In fact, this is a very effective method of making the system controversial. Even with many fundamental laws, the bag has been entered into the law. See, non-integrated oil markets, Turkish Airlines, rooms and stock markets, issues such as foreign travel, vegetable fruit trade, are combined in one law, and the Parliament's legislative authority is neutralized. As the bill was rushed in negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission, it is sobering to bring it to the General Assembly in a hurry. My dear friends, this government often speaks of law in an interesting way. How is it that a government that puts law under the table so often talks about law? Mr. Secretary explained the law in his speech about this law. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you, is law a fair law in the systems in which the separation of powers is destroyed? You compel judgment, bypass living, make what you can't work, and then you get up and talk about law. Now, this bag bill is such a bill that you're gonna get anywhere. My dear friends, one of the most important topics of the bag bill is the fruits and vegetables, the arrangements for the market. The decision to set up market space with the bill has been removed from the municipalities' monopoly and given to special individuals and institutions. Although some of our objections as CHP have been made correct in the commission, it has been noted that the government's opinion is that market places are being operated on private companies in a period of time. So basically, there were one markets left that weren't privatized, and now it's their turn. Oh, look at the citizen! What does that mean? Marketing places will have more rents, which means big cities won't have the same market places as they used to, which would even mean the destruction of small marketers because of the rents. Instead, don't be surprised if there's a chain of market companies and organized companies in the markets, and a few of them even run countertops with hired people in markets. Let me put it this way: Our concern is that even diversity in markets can be negatively affected, so even the Turkish nation's eating will be affected by this law. This is a critical issue for public health. The fact that the markets are in the hands of corporations instead of the public could have dangerous consequences. The government thinks of everything; it considers a tax pardon to Turkish Airlines, it considers taking out its staff in rooms and stock markets, it considers the interests of oil monopolys, it considers the proponent manufacturer's monopoly, but it doesn't think of one citizen, my dear friends. Dear friends, imagine the problems that will cause markets to be organised and operated by private companies. With the privatisation of market-place management, someone will not only have a monopoly on market spaces, but will also start to form monopoly that determines the fruit and vegetable market, and small consumer networks will not be able to get products of small producers from their own channels. This will be the beginning of a mass and very dangerous transformation, my friends. That's what we're gonna face. Members of lawmakers, these intentions will further increase the prices of the already high fruit and vegetables, which will make the small manufacturer more difficult and extremely dangerous. Don't go by the marketplace, it's the most important market space in the community. The only hope for the poor, the poor, the small-income, is in the marketplaces. When a market is over, watch the people who roam those markets, the people who are trying to collect leftovers, and you will understand the economy of Turkey. We're wondering if these people are already running the markets. Do these have any relationship with those who plague our local manufacturer with foreign infertile seeds? Are they friends, friends with the monopoly that manufactures and distributes agricultural medicines? Do these people have a relationship with those who make laws that tie the hands of agricultural sales co-ops? Without our objections to the Plan Budget Commission, this bill would have turned out to be against the market traders and the public, a 100 per cent private sector, markets in major cities. More than 50 per cent of the city's municipalities, which have been blocked from handing over markets to private companies by the CHP's objections, have been conditioned to have organisations, but is still dangerous. So the civil and marketer's tradesman was saved from falling into a very difficult process, but the process, however, is not enough. The era of market spaces related to public needs will be open to various risks and abuses, friends. We're warning the public's municipal practices that they need to monitor this issue. Public opinion should be very careful with market practices, with all the press marketers and market market places. Dear MPs, the bill also includes arrangements for agricultural sales co-optive units. But I wonder, how much did you get for the ideas of these cooperatives? Of course, this kind of work has been sketchy by you, as we've always witnessed. In the Plan Budget Commission, they're relatively... maybe they're not represented in any way. I wonder how you feel when you're preparing an arrangement that's passed over the fundamental issues of the co-operatives. See, cooperatives have financial problems. Due to the government's lack of adequate support for co-ops, its debt to a very serious level has seriously affected its activities. As these debts are added to their new debts in order to reduce their financial difficulties, the situation of the cooperatives today has become increasingly difficult, my friends. For example, the agricultural co-ops are in debt and are in distress because of negative conditions and debts due to these negative conditions, when they are able to maintain their condition without those debts. Of course, there are those who want to profit from it, even political interests, such as nuts. That's why these cooperatives can't support the manufacturer enough. This difficult situation has been a fundamental issue of cooperatives for years, and your plan has been unable to come up with any basic solutions. Although debt reduction is foreseen, it is far below the expectations of cooperatives. Cooperatives are the most important supporters of agriculture. Co-ops should be considered the most important channels in the government's support and regulation of domestic agriculture. You shouldn't take your contribution here as a blessing. This is a matter of co-op, country, right, justice, friends. Look... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it over?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0149par0203	It's over, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0148par0204	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0149par0206	Thank you, Mr. Silver. Congressmans, I'm going to the QA now. Here you go, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0150par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you misjudged the incident in customs liquidation businesses because workers work for business owners who want to take their load off early after hours, and the employer pays overtime not to the employee, but to your ministry's common pool. I mean, the pool's full of workers, the money's being paid for. Pay them as well, but please pay the worker who put money in the pool. The 41st article of the Employment Law, or overtime fee, is not applied here because they cannot charge the employer for overtime. By law, the employer deposits this money into your ministry's pool. You, now, are overworking the worker, putting the fee into your employer's Ministry, and you refuse to give the employee a piece of the money that lies in your ministry. I mean, it's a huge injustice, Mr. Secretary, so please take a look at it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0151par0212	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0152par0214	Minister, in the 70th article (5), your ministry is given great initiative in the matter at the point of the 70th article to establish, establish modern markets, operate them, or to ensure that they have more than 50 per cent of their participation and operation within the methods and foundations set by the Ministry. At least 51 per cent are from the municipal company... which is an important statement at the point where you promise to use initiative here to increase the proportion of this or to give the remaining percentage of this to the vocational organisation marketers' rooms, in terms of criticism that all market places will be privatized. For him, if you remove the work, the very important contributions, the fact that there are question marks on the subject, we have reached a point that is true in the sense that we have resolved the public and market concerns. Please share your opinion on this matter with both the public and the Parliament.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0151par0216	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0153par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. According to Article 640's provisions, the organisation of the State Department of Customs and Trade was to be completed by 31 December 2012. In this scope, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, especially in my constituency region, Manisa and many other municipalities, has not been established. How many county offices have they established now? When will Manisa be established as the county manager of customs and trade? What's the pattern of smuggling on the Syrian border over the last two years? What are your work on smuggling at the Syrian border, especially given reports that Syrian asylum seekers have smuggled a large number of contraband through the border? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0154par0222	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0155par0224	Minister, since there's time in the questions, let me ask you one more thing: this is one of the answers that the tradesman's office has been waiting for. And with your testimony and your ministry's work, you said you were preparing for the law to regulate the retail market. However, it is clear that the tradesman and the artist will no longer be able to wait for this law to be delayed. Yesterday, a large newspaper has made it very clear that the malls have crossed the European average in Turkey and that the AVMs have reached the point of competition, where they have over 3 million square metres of sales. At a point like this, we're waiting for you to tell the public when you're going to pass this law. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0156par0227	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0157par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Acar, of course, repeated his question. Now, dear friends, I will repeat myself. The General Directorate of the Program, which operates in the Customs and Trade Ministry structure, employs 150 staff members, working as workers, or as subject to the Employment Law. These are workers who do not do the work of the merchant man who operates in customs, but the work of the TASI. So they're the ones who do the service for the shipment of products in the disposable warehouses. During customs activities in other customs areas, and really off-hours, there are those who operate the labor services of a trading expert, which means labor, let's say a port, a port, a co-owner of the port, he gets labor services from them. Thus, our brothers and sisters do not come at night and offer a service there. There's nothing wrong with that. There's no injustice. I'm sure it's your lack of information on that detail, so let my friends take notes now and let you know more. You had a question yesterday, about these barbers in Antalya. You asked, that's my note.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0158par0233	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0157par0234	Now, I looked into this -- they brought the nuke -- that's right, this is the new app. In some places, it's been done, it's got names and stuff. A study has been initiated by the FULCRUM. I stated yesterday that there is a ban on listening to certain products within the framework of the intellectual rights law, the price of products, or the price of ideas. Thus, in the context of protection for members, the Qur'an puts such pressure on those who use these products without paying the price. We're taking the matter into business, we're going to argue there, we're going to follow it in the other dimension, which is why I've shared with you. After Mr. Sesam made criticisms about authorising more than 51 per cent of municipalities' market-run partnerships, he also had a wish to receive the contributions of trade organisations under the authority that our Ministry will use to improve this issue. Let me put it this way: As with all of our work, we will surely consider the interests of our target audience in the regulations that we shall carry out under the authority of this legal arrangement and in their commitment to it, and we will continue them in a shared understanding with their organisations. We've done it so far, we'll do it from now on. As for the question of Mr. Akçay... it is true that the statute envisioned for the creation of the Ministry of Customs and Trade's trade municipal directors under the restructuring of the ministries was 31/12/2012. Before that, we had to share between the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and the Ministry of Customs and Trade. We've made this share, and we've established our municipal administrations within that share. We've established our county offices as 81 county managers in Turkey before 31/12/2012, thinking that we shouldn't fall into a legal void immediately, without that time. We've made their appointment subsidiary. We even performed these operations on the 12th of October. Now, there are people who are short-staffed, there are less staff, there are places that have problems, and they've been identified. In the days to come, we'll send their decrees over and over, and their appointment will be made. In the last two years -- another question -- you know, what's the deal with smuggling on the Syrian border? Of course, we can provide a separate document on Syria. Have our friends prepare him and send him to you. I don't have anything on the Syrian gates. But we've taken preventive measures at all of our customs doors, we're making it stronger, and I'm sure we'll be able to fight this legal arrangement even more. Because one of the most important reasons for off the books is illegal, unfair. The more off-the-books, the greater the load of the registered. We aim to bring it down as much as possible, minimise it, and thus reduce the burden of those who are registered, pay the tax that everyone has produced, and keep it active in economic life. Mr. Sesame says in his speeches, what was the law on organizing the retail sector, which is often referred to as the AVM law? It's on our agenda, but unfortunately, we always say that, really, it's on the agenda, but it's too busy. From now on, after the law that is discussed here today, there is a law that we will bring to the High Council, and then the second law is the AVM. The law that we bring is the law that protects consumers. That's a law of 80-90. I'm sure we'll share that law with you. Hopefully, we'll figure it out together before we leave for too long. The law that we're going to bring back after that is the law on organizing this retail sector, but I'd like to express something on this occasion. I went to Antwerp recently, and I visited a tradesman in Antwerp, and I went to the marketplace. I really like it. I'm also congratulating the mayor there. If you go, go see those who don't go, I never thought I'd see a market like that. There's an area arrangement with 2,000 tradesmen, the exteriors, the signs, they're organized within a standard. I said, that's the mall the shopkeeper wants. According to me, the biggest mall was built with that app. These things need to be multiplied in Turkey, the ones like that. Not just the outside, but the inside. Mr. Sesame, I strongly advise you to go there or I'll invite you when I get there, and we'll go back together.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0159par0242	Mr. Secretary, bring in a law like that. Everywhere, bring a law like that...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0160par0243	His start was at the time of the CHP's mayor.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0157par0244	Not everything happens with the law. Another question was raised here. Mr. President, we already have time. Mr. Mehmet Şeker Bey...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0161par0248	Question-answer...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0157par0249	Question-and-answer, that was a question, he asked me a question. I answer the question, I don't go outside. He asked me a question and said, "I want an answer." You know, there were five trucks with Iranian plates, which came out of our Gürbulak Gate and went from Pioneer to Syria on January 7, 2012, where they were stopped, where information was evaluated and checked. As a result of the inspection, some of the boilers and chemicals that could be used to make bombs were confiscated. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Army Command, has been given the necessary notifications and has been extradited with the trucks and the goods, on 11/5/2012. I mean, there's no ban on them being a subject of trade, but the decision made by the United Nations on Iran was prevented from transferring to Iran through Turkey, and there are transcripts of them. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0162par0252	I'd like to ask you one more thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0163par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0164par0254	Mr. Serindağ, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0163par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've been to Antwerp, you've really liked it, and it's a good thing it's an introduction. However, I'd appreciate it if you could answer the question: Gaziantep has 17,000 partners and 9 co-operators. A lot of talk has been said about this south country in the last few days. A member of your party has a statement about this, there are tenders being made, I cancelled the contract. Have you had any work done on this subject? Do you intend to conduct a study of this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0165par0258	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0166par0259	There is, yes, there is. The kind of information you told me about that was passed on to me, a plot, the sale of that land. I've just drawn their attention through my friends, not to make a mistake, not to turn it into an exploitation, whatever the rights are required in law, I've expressed in general, but I think our position, our view, has been effective. An assessment, it's been applied, the land hasn't been sold yet, and his sales procedure is probably in the form of an open tender. We're following the process on this scale.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0165par0261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0167par0262	I'd appreciate it if you'd check the transactions so far, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0166par0263	I hope so.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0165par0264	Interviews on chapter four are complete. Now, after I've processed the clauses and the motions on that clause in section four, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. There's a motion over Article 72, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 72 of the current 437 rows of the Bill be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Necati Özensoy Mehmet Günal Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0168par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0165par0275	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0169par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0165par0277	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0170par0279	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are starting to negotiate on the articles of the fourth chapter, and of course, there are problematic substances here, and most importantly, the district market areas are being opened from the monopoly of municipalities to private sectors, private business. We object to that, dear friends. If you'll excuse me, we must first approach from a historical perspective. States have three signs. One of the three signs of being a state, building state domination is the flag. Your flag flies. Secondly, it's read in the sermon that represents the sovereignty of your state. Third, your money is valid in that state. There are three signs of being a city and a city within the borders of that state. The first is our mosques; the second is the foundations, and the third is the marketplace, dear friends. These are essential elements of our cultural, social, and economic lives, our world. This is true of all Turkish history: Seljuklu, Ottomans, and republics, which have been valid so far, but we regret to see that these three signs of our state life and our city and social life have become very serious and are becoming increasingly vulnerable. Isn't Bayrak a piece of cloth? In a country where those who once called it the flag were vice-presidents, we began to see the days when those who raised the flag were clubbed and taken into custody today as the cause of the Turkish flag. Those who have opened the PKK rag to our cities are almost protected and kept in a state of silence, at least. Yes, our flag is sad, my dear friends. When you get stuck, you say one flag, but there are those who do not insist on saying the flag's name. For those of you who don't know and those who don't, I'd like to say again from this bench that our moon-star flag, which flies in the skies of Turkey, is a Turkish flag, my friends.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0171par0282	No hesitation.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0170par0283	There are those who hesitate, and there are those who express differently. And since we're short on time, of course, about the war, and about the money, hopefully we'll talk about it in another conversation later. And when we come to mosques, foundations and markets, we see: Again, unfortunately, on the mosque, we see our people, our cities, ephemeral, ignorant, etcetera, disruptive attitudes and behaviors, people's religion, diet. The Foundations Act is one of Turkey's most controversial laws in recent years, and unfortunately now you're breaking markets. Years ago, one of our literary artists wrote a book called Bread Broken, and we recommend it to everyone. And now, unfortunately, the markets are breaking down, dear friends and neighborhood markets are trying to be transformed into, like, malls, supermarkets, supermarkets. All of our social lives, all of our people -- the rich and the poor -- in a social and economic environment, the marketplaces that bring them together in a cultural environment, unfortunately, are rapidly monogamous, the path towards monogamous, even mobsterism is triggered. With these thoughts, I wish you all the satisfaction of our motion.
tbmm-2013-03-28sit04spe0172par0288	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 74th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
