tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to the Şanlıurfa MP Zeynep Karahan Küldü (Geşliurfa) who wants to speak on the occasion of Retirement Week. Here you go, Mr. Karahan Nice.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, it is clear that the reason for the political institution's existence is to edit and improve the quality of life by observing the demands and expectations of all the communities of our common future. In this context, it is an important goal to provide our pensioners, who have contributed as active labor force for the country's development, as well as the broadest possible opportunities as part of the social state principle. In order to achieve this goal, I have made a commitment to express our country's distance on the basis of Retirement Week. We now have 10,4 million pensioners in Turkey, who have contributed greatly to the development of our country during their working lives, and since 2002, we have seen our pensioners as a priority group, and we have set them up as a goal to contribute. In this context, pensions have been increased above inflation throughout the EC PARTY governments, and significant improvements have been made, and the level of prosperity our country has captured is reflected in our pensions and continues to reflect. Since 2009 some countries have had a global financial crisis, social security systems go backwards, social benefits are cut downs, and at the same time, when pensions are fixed, when we look back to our own country, we have passed the reform law that we've been waiting for for for for for years, and on March 8, 2012, the months that have been recalculated to 2.7 million people before 2000. This framework has provided significant improvements in many categories, even improvements in some salaries reaching 342 Turkish liras. Our pensioners' living standards have been improved by the principle of continuity from the day we came to work, with increased levels of prosperity and the power to buy in the face of high inflation before 2002. Before 2003, our pensioners, who had only increased their monthly rates according to inflation rates and could not receive a real increase, were given a huge increase in inflation. If we compare 2002 to 2013, the pensioner's pension to 197 per cent, 258 per cent to the SEC labour pension, 284 per cent to the SEC farm pension, 402 per cent to the BUG-KUR market pension, and 748 per cent to the BUG-KUR agricultural pension, it is clear that inflation increases over 45.2% in the last 11 years. And as of today, our pensioners have come to a higher position in Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Malta, Hungary, Slovenia, Poland, Ireland, France and Greece, as well as the countries of the European Union. The GDP rate for our pensions was 4.8 in 2002, while the percentage of pension payments increased to 7.7 in 2012, while the percentage of pension payments were 14 per cent in the central budget in 2002, and 30 per cent in 2012. Women's workers were also able to complete their periods of retirement and social life by borrowing a total of two years, and to retire earlier because of a service contract in the framework of social security reform, due to the fact that women's insurance has been insured due to their work before birth, and they have been unable to work due to childbirth. In order to ease the burden of our mothers with disabled children, there is an early retirement opportunity for them to spend more time on their children, covering up all kinds of rights for opposition, and pumping negativeness to society through unrealistic paintings. There is a situation that we can call the Throne. The pension systems of countries are measured by how much they are entitled to pensions in their own country. At this stage, according to the net substitution rates of OECD data, pensioners are now ranked fourth among the OECD countries, leaving behind countries such as the United States, France, Germany and Japan, because there is a state in Turkey now that has the concept of social state, not so-called. I do not see enough of all the improvements that have been done to build the tomorrows of his country, and I say that we will continue our efforts to make it better, and I hereby pay tribute to all our pensioners' Day.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked for the right to protest in the legal state. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the right to protest in the state of law. I salute you all. When we released a general summary of June 2013, instead of law, politics, conflict instead of negotiations, instead of a compromiser language, a separative language dominated us, a legal state process. If the law had been respected, if the legal language had been used, there would have been no loss of life, thousands of injuries, millions of heartaches, severe financial harm. Dear lawmakers, the 34th article of our Constitution has deemed it a right to hold meetings and demonstration walks as a right. The right to hold meetings and demonstration walks, amongst the most fundamental concept of democracy, became a subject of controversy after the Gezi Park events. Everyone put aside the law and began to consider it on their own front. The Prime Minister declared these demonstrations illegal as a whole. In this country, you go where the Prime Minister allows for execution, demonstrations and walks, and you do it there. You do your application, the venue is set. He explained that he had a prerequisite for demonstrations from the Prime Minister and that he was required to be granted permission. My dear friends, when the Prime Minister restricts the freedom of this meeting and demonstration march in this way, when he defines it like this, he also gives legitimacy to any police intervention outside the limits he draws. On the other hand, the 34th article of the Constitution organises the right of everyone to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive rally and demonstration march without prior permission. Article 34 of the Constitution is consistent with Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Again, when we look at the proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights, it is clear that even the relevant provisions of Law 2911, which stipulates the appointment of the route, are contrary to the Constitution, and to the laws of the European Court of Human Rights, international contracts. Here -- again, the way the AKP opened -- we go to this definition: In 2004, the 90th article of the Constitution was changed, and it was announced that international contracts would be envisioned if international law conflicted with national law. Dear lawmakers, the argument and the wrong questions are: is the violence used proportional or disproportionate? Before you ask that question, it needs to be answered whether there is a need for violence or not. If violence is necessary, it needs to be answered if the tools used to prevent excesses in the demonstration are appropriate or not. If violence is necessary and appropriate, then violence, power, proportional or disproportionate, should be answered in the third phase. Now, the Istanbulians gathered in this case of Gezi Park have claimed the right to be urban, historical, cultural and natural places, as per the right of the environment. These rights are guaranteed by the Constitution and international contracts. Intervention of these freedoms can only be discussed when it is necessary and if it is done with a convenient tool. Again, when we look at the 34th article of the Constitution and the 11th Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, there is no right to hold a meeting and demonstration march. Besides, an unauthorized meeting and a march doesn't justify violence. The European Court of Human Rights has strict control of the use of violence and has made many decisions against Turkey. Actually, I'd like to finish with a sentence the Prime Minister himself said. Mr. Prime Minister says: "A leader who massacres his people loses its legitimacy." Again, the Prime Minister says: "You cannot remain in power despite the people." These are the words of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I wish the Prime Minister would consider his words in these cases. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, who asked for a comment on the problems of martyr relatives and veterans.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the families of martyrs and the problems of our veterans. On this occasion, I salute you all. The families of the martyrs and the veterans and the invalids have many problems. Although they were promised positive discrimination, large possibilities were offered, they were not fulfilled. In July of last year, the scope of the bag of legislation has been very limited. Other issues that were not adopted were promised in October, but so far there have been no improvements. In addition, there are problems with the use of this right, while the bag is granted a second job for the relatives of the martyr with the law. Mr. President, the precious members of the party's presidential party, the valued MPs, come, let's all be brave together, to address these problems of our families, our veterans and our maladies, who have been entrusted to us. Come on, let's make the necessary arrangements in the bag of law that we're going to start seeing today. We, the National Movement Party, are prepared to contribute to the arrangements. The bag we're meeting today is the same and full payment to the law, the monthly commitment to the deceased's parents for the minimum wage, the extension of additional payments to each of their children, the expansion of property increases, the right to interest hikes, the right to an interest-free housing loan and free travel rights paid to our Korean and Cyprus veterans, the honourary allowance for those given state pride medals, the benefit of public officials and military martyrs and property, all rights for all rights and duties, without any condition, and the right to be paid for free travel, and the right to be paid on 3 months' wages and 3 months' due to be given to the state pride medals, the rights and the rights of all health and military martyrs and property, and all the rights to all the rights and obligations of all the rights of all the rights and property, and the rights to all the rights of all the rights to be given to be given, and the rights and the rights of all the rights of all the rights to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to the rights, and the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights of all military and the rights and the rights and the rights, and the rights of the rights of the rights to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to be granted to the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights, and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights, and the rights of the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights and the rights of the rights and the rights of the rights of the state. That doesn't mean you have to work so long. On February 12, 2013, the Prime Minister promised that the right to free travel would be extended, and that our fellow martyrs and veterans and seniors over 65 would benefit from these rights. In his group talks on 16 April 2013, he also gave news of the possibility of increased salaries, of providing additional payment and training aid to public officials, the relatives of those who lost their lives in acts of terrorism, the payment of 250 lira a month on property, duty and war disability, the right to employment for those who lack employment, and the implementation of our underprivileged citizens and disabled citizens during the duration of their child in the war. However, five months have passed since his first speech, three months since his last speech, but we're doing it by the Prime Minister himself. We're starting. During that time, some of these citizens have passed away, some have completed their military service. A prime minister's words should not be delayed like this, not made cheap. In the meantime, some of the articles of the 102-point bill referred to parliament by the government last week include these issues. The bill was adopted by the Council of Ministers on May 6, 2013. Why was this bill not sent for fifty-two days and sent one week before the Council's vacation? Doesn't the government want this arrangement to come out in the year of the legislature? It's insincerity, insensitivity. I say to the government, "Stop playing around with our people and keep your promises. Mr. President, the esteemed members of our party's group, the esteemed MPs, I repeat my call: it's going to take a few days to discuss the bag of law. Let's go to the next room as lawmakers to be appointed by the party groups; let's get the families of the martyrs involved in the 102-point bag bill that the government has sent over and we'll get rid of the substances related to our veterans, our disability, our elderly and disabled, and we'll include them in the bag of legislation that we've discussed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's about 30 items. Our relevant associations have a couple of clauses added and a request for a change in a couple of clauses, so if we agree, let's include these. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A thorough study of the problems of asylum seekers who have come to our country due to internal conflicts in Syria must be conducted. The detailed information of the public about life in the camps established is important for us to study living conditions. Therefore, in order to determine the conditions of life in the camps, to determine the rights violations and to convey secure information to the public, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental Research on the basis of Articles 104, 105, and Articles 104 of the Constitution. There have been allegations that there have been serious violations in Syria since March 15, 2011. These allegations cannot be investigated because the camps are now closed to the public. Human rights organizations who seek to investigate life and human rights violations in camps are not allowed. Therefore, no research has been conducted in the camps against rights violations that have occurred or will be experienced. Information on the sale of asylum seekers in public, claims again that Syrian intelligence is operating in the camps, making it urgent to examine the conditions in the camps. There are allegations that Syrian citizens who have taken refuge in Turkey have been deported by Turkish authorities in a national and international way. It is among these allegations that Serbast Mahmoud was extradited to Syria in this minor. Again, it was understood by Adana Public Prosecutor's Office that Hüseyin Mustafa Harmus was forced to return to Syria. Under these allegations, NGOs (Multegrator Rights Coordinating etc.) have submitted these demands to the Prime Minister, the President, the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs, but the demands of civil society and human rights organizations have been rejected. These organisations have been prevented from investigating the living conditions of Syrian citizens living in camps in Hatay. There is a separate camp in Hatay for those who fled the Syrian Army and joined the Free Syrian Army. There's no telling what life is like in this camp. It is considered by public opinion that the Free Syrian Army personnel have received military training in this camp and that this camp is being used as the headquarters of the Free Syrian Army. Videos released by the Syrian national news agency SANA after the clashes in Syria show that Turkish weapons and ammunition were used in conflict. In this context, Turkey has been aiding the Free Syrian army with weapons and ammunition. Turkey does not accept people from eastern countries as refugees. He also grants them refugee status. Syrian citizens from Syria are also refugees. The refugees who arrive remain at the borders of Turkey until they move to other countries. Some refugees who have reached our side have announced that even though relatives in Europe and Scandinavia have invited them, the government of Turkey does not allow them to cross the border. This is contrary to Turkey's accepted refugee status. Again, refugees are making changes in socioeconomic structure by doing economic activities in Hatay. Turkey's existing practices on refugees and asylum seekers are incapable of solving the problems of asylum seekers and residents. All these allegations are essential to the investigation of life in camps in border areas and the detection of rights violations in camps. It is important that the measures necessary for asylum seekers to live in a secure environment are taken, and that is to be identified and implemented by reliable sources. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On March 16, 2012, the newspapers reported that the citizens of Yörük Ali street reported to the police that they had found religious notes hanging on the doors of citizens in the village of Alemi, where our citizens lived in a busy neighborhood in Harmandalı district of İzmir province. Also in the March 19, 2012 newspapers of Göksu district of Buca district of İzmir have stated that the homes of five Alevi citizens have been marked and that this has caused unrest among the citizens. In the same dated newspapers, the Gaziantep Cultural Association executives reportedly received the response to the response to the following 40 streets of Alevi citizens living in the district of Şahinbey, Cyprus and Honor, and that the executives received information by going to the neighborhood muhtar, with a two-headed arrow under the letter "e," and that there was no GASCI work at the Düztepe Station. About three weeks before the deep anxiety and unrest of the districts of Buca and Gaziantep of İzmir, Adıyaman's Karapınar and Yenimahalle neighborhoods, similar markings have been detected on the houses of Alevi citizens, Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin said, "These marks are written according to the size of children. These marks were made not only on the doors of the Alevi, but also on the doors of other houses." he said. However, our citizens of Izmir, Gaziantep, and Adıyaman have noted that the same signs were not made to the homes and streets of other citizens living in their neighborhoods, suggesting that markings reminded them of the massacre of Maras on December 19-26, 1978, and that they had been invited to a new massacre. Reports in the March 28, 2012, strengthen citizens' anxiety. The six NGOs announced in Adıyaman regarding the marking of some houses include the following: "- The people of Alevi, who live in the marked region despite all their brotherly emphasis, are nervous. It was stated that there were night watchmen among the people. Surveillance footage from the crime scene, delivered to the police, suggests there's no trace of the perpetrators. The security camera from the Internet cafe on the front floor of one of the marked houses is also caused by the fact that the night of the incident, the security camera recorded every day, is closed, and is also caused by suspicion. - Adıyaman has not recorded anything serious between Alevi and Sunni communities so far, but the marking of houses suggests an organised initiative that may have a political background. Such relationships (children or adults) need to be illuminated, considering such a possibility. If it's the job of the kids in the neighborhood, the only way to clear up these kind of misunderstandings is to expose the perpetrators. - The official authorities have the responsibility to enlighten and expose the perpetrators so that the marking event, seen as one of the factors to disrupt their culture of living together, does not reach its goal." After Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's decision on the court's statute of limitations in the Sivas case, he said, "Good luck." His statement indicates that the impression that some parts of our country have been encouraged against others is becoming common, along with recent events. For this reason, the detailed investigation of the reasons for the following events in a commission must be investigated, the resolving of all responsible without reaching dangerous levels, the removal of anxiety and threat perceptions among public and citizens, as well as a thorough review of the statements made by government officials and local authorities to the public on the commission. Therefore, our Constitution is 98. with respect to the establishment of a research commission according to Articles 104 and 105 of the Articles of the TBMM. [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[Manisa]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] 9) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 10) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Antalya]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Tunceli]] [[Mersin]] 28) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 29) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of the Constitution, in order to determine measures to be taken by seeking to prevent further economic and quality pilgrimages and Umre travel as a result of an economic and unfair competition in the market that constitutes the chairmanship of the Dianets and Umre organisations. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] 19) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] In 2011, the number of pilgrims in our country has drawn closer to 1 million. Around 600,000 of those who did not make it the year before, are made up of recording renovations by those who failed to make it. In recent years, with increased visits to Umre, pilgrimage and Umre services have become a major market for over 500m euros. In addition to the regulatory and auditory function of the Hajj and Umre organisation, he is a player who operates in this large market. He also has 60 per cent quota privileges in the organisation for the pilgrimage with the relevant Council of Ministers' decision. This privilege yields results in the support of the Ministry of Religious Affairs in the organisation for the pilgrimage. The number of pilgrims is also limited to the potential growth of the market in the country, and an artificial balance is provided in favour of the already-privileged President of Dianet Affairs in the market. While the diet does not have the quota privileges of services such as the services of the Umre service, it is subject to different provisions in terms of applications for agencies who organise the Umre service. Therefore, in the Umre services, both as a market player and as a regulator and controller, the President of Religious Affairs is in a state of determination. The Ministry of Religious Affairs, which provides the same services as the obligations required by the legislation of private initiatives in the activities of Hajj and Umre organisations, operates as an exemption. However, he conducts the audits of these private enterprises and performs administrative and financial sanctions if necessary. It is possible to talk about an organisation that cannot be created within the framework of objective criteria in the sector, given that the services of the Ministry of Religious Affairs are similar to the services provided by agencies that are supervised and enforced by sanctions. In its report on "Hajj and Umreya Travel Services," which the Association of Competitives reported on 10,11.2011, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Council of Ministers' decision to perform administrative duties given to it, while it cannot be considered to have been involved in economic activities, as well as in the nature of a policy provided by private travel agencies for Hajji candidates to be taken to the pilgrimage and Umrea, it has been similar to the service of the service provided by special travel agencies, and has been assigned to the product market for these travel agencies, and has determined that prices, as well as a measure of cost, as well as a measure of a measurement. He also determined that the Ministry of Religious Affairs can be regarded as an initiative under the Law 4054, as to the economic quality of its services for pilgrimage and care, and as to the amount of wages they will pay for the pilgrimage and Umre, and the basis for this service is determined by the commission established under the chairmanship of Religious Affairs. In the same report, it also states that a market structure in the market, which ensures that the chairmanship of Religious Affairs is both regulatory/responsive in the market and that there are some effects created by having an important market share, should improve the market structure, which is in conflict with market logic, which ensures that the power to regulate its opponents is more healthy than the competitive perspective. So, as it turns out, the Ministry of Religious Affairs earns profits from the services of the pilgrimage and Umre services. Its primary duty is to provide religious service to the community, and its way of profiting from these services is not consistent with the nature of the service, but has consequences for those who benefit from these services. In the pilgrimage and Umre market, both the player and the controller and the possession of various privileges make the activities of other initiatives difficult, and this prevents gains that can be offered to consumers. Besides having an important market share as editor and controller of the Hajj and Umre organisations of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, it is a challenge for the market to create a competitive perspective. These organizations, which are not based on competitive foundations, have led to the unicentral creation of prices, but do not allow our citizens to make their journey to the pilgrimage and the Umre at a cheaper price. It will be based on competitive foundations, and an organisation that the Ministry of Religious Affairs has controlled practices only in a religious way will improve the quality of service, and will also provide price advantages for those who benefit from the pilgrimage and Umre service. With respect to the opening of Parliamental research into the "Economist of Religious Affairs, which organises Hajj and Umre organisations, in accordance with Articles 104, and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey for reasons presented above and determined during the study, to become an economic initiative for profit purposes and to avoid further economic and quality pilgrimage and Umre travel due to unfair competition." It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On July 01, 2013, the parliamentary inquiry motion given by Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan (772 rows) was proposed to be read in the same date in the assembly's assembly, which was submitted to the information of the General Assembly, in order to investigate events that resulted in the death of one of our citizens in the Lice district of Diyarbakir, Kayacık district of Diyarbır. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan has asked for a statement.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0008par0209	Mr. President, members of parliament, you know there was an incident in Kayacık (Hezan) village of lice district of Diyarbakır province on June 28, 2013. It's been public debate for a long time. The government is rapidly building new goalkeepers. These aren't police stations, they're goalkeepers.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0009par0210	What does it mean, Mr. Altan?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0008par0211	The Hezan villagers, the Kayacık villagers, are protesting against this protest, but the shooting is being opened against this protest, and according to all reports, the deceased is being shot in the back, and the wounded eight are being shot in the back, including eight others. Dear friends, we have a second Roboski case. Do the citizens have the right to protest or not? What measures did the protest take place? In return, why did the soldier take a direct shot at him and fight back? We're here to introduce you to a congressional investigation into this matter. Of course, again, as always, the case should be investigated, the perpetrators must be brought in, punished, but again, it is wanted to be covered up by political debates, polymics. Dear friends, there are democratic actions in democratic countries, sometimes unwanted events. It's the government's job not to cover them up, not to make them polemic, but to reveal the truth, if there's a duty to judge, legal, judicial, administrative mechanisms, it's to do so all over the world. There's no side to the state, there's only one side to the state, rights and law. This right and the law are responsible for finding and removing the right and the law, whether you have a citizen or a bureaucrat, whether you have a soldier or a policeman. Now, when it's supposed to be like this here, from day one, what needs to be done is left behind, it's a polymix, it's a cover-up. What's to be done? There's been an incident. What's your pattern? The citizen reacted against the construction of the goalie. He took action in front of the police station, where an incident took place. What's to be done? It needs to be properly investigated. How did these reactions start, how did they develop, where did they go? Why was the gun used in return, how was it used, when was it used, when was it used? They're being investigated, presented to the public by the citizens, the state, the truth without the bureaucratic distinction. As usual, we're dealing with a state reflex, a method of covering up crime and crime, covering up for evidence, blacking out. On the first day of events, the police station was said to have been shot and attacked. Then another polemic began this time, sir, where the drug trade was being planted, and so did the drug lords, and so did the drug lords. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to say a few words about this castle issue, and then I'd like to come to this drug issue. The Prime Minister and the Home Secretary insist on saying, "Sir, we don't build new outposts." So, what are you doing? We're fixing old outposts, making them available. I mean, I wish we'd used a better word than the word "lie," but unfortunately we don't. If you're building a place where there's a military unit of 20 people and you're building 200 people, it's not called the blackguard anymore, it's called the kalekol. There must be another explanation for this if you are building castles at the exact time of the guns' silence, where you can have 200-300 troops from Şırnak, Hakkari, Diyarbakır, and Bingley when they arrive. We don't build new outposts. At least get out of the old outposts small, we're short, we're 10 times as small, but we're building a police station in the same place instead. Say, at least inform the public correctly. First of all, these are dear friends. If there really is an opening, really a democratization, if there really is a period of peace, why are you in such a hurry? Why are you in such a hurry? One waits at least six months, one year, and the political climate normalizes, and then no one gets any different comments about it, no matter what they do. A second issue, dear friends, may be more important than that, is a total blackout and a drug problem. Insisting, Diyarbakır is presented as a fuel smuggling centre and a drug centre, particularly lice district, Hakkari and Van. Dear friends, I've spoken of this bench many times, over and over again. For example, Mr. Prime Minister has made a recent speech, and today the Home Secretary has made a similar statement, saying: "There are some politicians behind this drug trade -- clearly and clearly -- we know these things and we will explain them. We also call this the "Hodri Square." If there are politicians involved in this, go ahead and report this address, tell them, show them. If Hakari is going from Istanbul to Europe, if he is going from the port of Alexander, if he is going from Izmit, if he is going from the customs of Edirne, do not put the people to sleep. It's 2,000 kilometers between Hakkari and Edirne. Who's got the traffic on this 2,000 kilometers? Enter Google Earth today, where Indian cannabis is planted, where cotton is planted is now detected from space. Sir, we've been planting in Diyarbakır, we've just found out, we're going after it. Don't hide behind these lies. Today, even cotton bonuses are made according to crop fields detected from space. Don't think they're in the Stone Age. Actions like Travel Park come to your attention, and those 13-year-olds, 15-year-olds, they surprise you. There's a real drug traffic in Turkey, that's right. This also entered INTERPOL's reports, entered the CIA's reports, entered MI6's reports, and entered the world's reports. But who's doing this? The tracks are in Ankara. If a government doesn't know about the drug trade within 2,000 kilometers, let's shut down all these intelligence agencies. Two, I've told you over and over, national intelligence reports that there are 14.5 billion fuel trafficking every year. This is not the 20 cans that come on mules and donkeys in Hakkari, but also a friend who is a candidate for MP from the AK PARTY, who is also in prison. We call the Prime Minister from here. Anything you know about drug trafficking, heroin, marijuana, guns, oil. It reaches for the politicians. You say, "You point, you cast mud; this mud comes and sticks to you." Just like three giant buildings in Oliveburn, 40-50 stories are being built, Mr. Prime Minister says: "The owner was my friend, cut half of them, shave them." I said, he hasn't shaved them, I haven't shaved for five years. Where were you when 40-story buildings were built in the middle of Istanbul? Since 1994, you have ruled Istanbul. Who gave you the zoning licenses for this? Who made the zoning changes from the city hall? This guy invested his money, got a license, sold it for $100 million, and then you say, "Shaving $500 million for my pleasure." So, where were you until that day, what were you doing? Dear friends, zoning corruption, fuel smuggling, drug trafficking, if the Prime Minister doesn't reveal what he knows, he's under suspicion. No matter which politician he reaches out to, let him know. If he doesn't, we're here to ask him again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0010par0223	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Bronzeç, Bartın MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0011par0226	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The construction of the Kayacık Police Command service building in Kayacık village of Diyarbakır province was launched on Friday (June 28, 2013) by a group of 200-250 people, to protest the construction of the Kayacık Police Command service building and to stop the work, and two tents and containers of workers were burned after a press statement was issued with stones and Molotovkotakiys and construction workers' tents and containers. They then began to stone and attack construction workers and security guards at the police station with sticks. Thus, verbal warnings were issued by security forces at the police station to disperse the group, but despite all warnings, the group continued its attacks and was gased into the police station's fences and a warning shot was fired into the air.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0012par0228	They were all shot in the back, all shot in the back.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0013par0229	We're Muslim brothers. What kind of a lie is that?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0011par0230	As a result of this violent incident, one of our citizens lost their lives, and nine of our citizens were injured, two of them heavy. The judicial investigation into the incident was launched by Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Ministry of Interior has also been assigned by the property inspector and the Inspector General Command to examine the matter in all its aspects and to conduct the necessary investigations. Both the forensic investigation and the administrative investigation will further clarify the case. Precious lawmakers, as a continuation of democratic progress towards further democraticisation by the National Union and Brotherhood Project, since 2002, the process of solutions has been launched for a stronger, democratic, free and peaceful Turkey. The goal of the solution to the end of terrorism is to capture the common spirit that will encompass all the people of this country, just as it did on April 23, 1920, and to reach the ideal of the great Turkey. All efforts in this process are to ensure that mothers do not weep behind their children's children's coffins, lest children shed tears after their father's coffins. If the process succeeds, the flow of blood will cease and the law of brotherhood will be restored throughout the country. On the other hand, it will be easier for our country to achieve its 2023 goals with the resolution of this problem. We must overcome this problem in order to talk about regional peace, peace, more trade, cooperation, and civilization rather than terrorism. We've been saying that since the day we came to power, there can't be a solution, there can't be a solution, there can't be a solution, there's a weapon, there's a violence. The EC PARTY government has been fighting for ten years to silence weapons, end terrorism and violence, speak of ideas, proposals. Dear lawmakers, we all know that one of the most important sources of terrorism is drugs. Whether it's the signing of international agreements or the regulations in our internal law to prevent the financing of terrorism, we've done it all here. We know there's been a major struggle in the region with marijuana and Indian cannabis recently, and over 100 trillion Indian cannabis have been destroyed. There are some who are uncomfortable with this source being cut off. No one should criticize the state's fight against drugs, especially those who are political, who want the solution process to continue. One of the most important tasks of the state is to prevent crime. The indirect basis of the lice incident is the marijuana incident, the Indian cannabis event, not the police station building. Many outposts were removed during the EC PARTY period. See, on May 2, 2013, 298 outposts were closed across Turkey with the approval of the Ministry of Interior. However, our country's border security has continued to be built into more secure outposts for the peace of our citizens. Dear lawmakers, even the name of the solution has created a very different climate throughout Turkey. As steps were taken, as concrete developments took place, there was a great atmosphere of hope in Turkey. Really, we've seen great developments, great events. In the villages where they've been having problems for years, our people have begun to return to their normal lives. People went up to their plateaus, their deserts, where they hadn't been able to go out for years, and they started picnics at the foot of the mountains. And the people of the Aegean, and the people of the Marmara, and the Black Sea, and the Mediterranean, and the Central Anatolian, went into the land, and embraced their brethren. Peace in the region, even the name of the solution was enough. Kepnks remained open, trade came alive, and moreover investors, employers, employers, businesswomen, businessmen began to organise consecutive visits to the region. The Prime Minister repeatedly stated that when he launched the National Union and Brotherhood Project in 2009 and the 2013 resolution process, the process was difficult, sensitive, requires patience, requires a steely will. He has repeatedly said that this process is open to sabotage, provocations, provocations, that the process can always be targeted, that we put not only our hands, but our bodies, but our lives. Mr. Prime Minister has repeatedly repeated that no sabotage, no provocation can keep us from this process, that we can't be deterred from the solution. The Reyhan incidents and the bombing of the Ministry of Justice, the bombing of the AK PARTI headquarters, and the lice events are history as a provocation for sabotaging the solution process; the travel events are still historically related to sabotaging the solution process. In these provocations, who gets what attitude they get, and they're history. Our nation has seen things clearly and continues to see them. Look, I'm giving you an example: there are a couple of TVs that provoke travel events. On the day of the lice events, we all watched People's TV, which was provocatating all night; they made a live phone call to PKK's broadcast organs on that program. Despite calls, these televisions have invited the people, the people of the region, to the streets, saying, "What are you waiting for?" Dear lawmakers, even this example alone is enough to explain the events. People no longer want tension, they want peace; they want peace, not conflict. Those who promote tension, conflict, violence, and chaos betray the process of resolution, the nation. Anyone who wants to justify this process, no matter what political party, will not be able to carry its burden. The solution process is a delicate process; the solution process is never a process that requires the state to ignore illegal actions, illegitimate initiatives. Illegal demonstrations can never be ignored in the state of law, and no one can expect such things. We have all seen how the demonstrations in lice were provoked, how they were drawn to different places, how they were wanted to be turned into a game. Those who try to make a message out of the events in lice will have to see that the event in Diyarbakir is not respected by the dangerous game, and they must receive the message themselves. As members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it's up to us and our political parties to ask our people not to be provoked, not to contribute to the taking of events in different directions. We all have to wait for the Ministry of Interior's administrative investigation and the criminal investigation launched by Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, I would vote against the group proposal the Peace and Democracy Party has made regarding the lice events, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0014par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0015par0244	Mr. President, the secretary has given false information to the public. Nine people were shot in the back in lice. Now, is it your duty to protect and protect murderers, or is it the duty of Parliament to find these killers? I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0014par0245	No, we're talking about it. Mr. Sezgin Godkulu has also requested a word in favor of your group proposal. We're talking about it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0016par0246	But he gave us the wrong information, so let's correct him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0015par0247	Let Mr. Sezgin talk, and I'll take two minutes...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0014par0248	No, no, please, Mr. Sakik, there's no vice president of your group here either.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0016par0249	He's holding the power of attorney, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0014par0250	The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0017par0253	With all due respect, my dear President. Have you no tolerance? I'd like a word of leniency.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0014par0254	Let's consider it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0017par0255	Well, take a look at it, Dad!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0018par0256	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favor of the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate last week's events in lice. I salute you all. I've just heard the words of my friend speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party here, and I've heard the satire as a lice-born MP, and I'd like to state that. Dear friends, there is no more wrong attitude on this bench than to create a fugitive, a drug perception on our citizens, especially by mentioning the names of the counties, by mentioning the names of the districts.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0019par0259	Who told you? Well, you're twisting it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0018par0260	Dear friends, our citizens in the East and the southeast have equal rights, as do all citizens of the Republic of Turkey. By discrimination through the regions, by creating perceptions... you told those who died in Roboski Uludere yesterday that they were fugitives, and today you call those who died in lice to legitimize your own wrong... and you accuse them of smuggling, smuggling, smuggling, all of them, all of the lice, all of Diyarbakir, all of the east and southeast, and all of the Kurds.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0020par0261	You make a confidentiality decision, and then a month later, you make a mistrial.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0021par0262	There's no such charge. Don't flex!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0020par0263	But that's what he said, Mr. Ahmet. Go out and fix it. Say you're sorry.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0022par0264	Look, dear friends, I'll ask you. Dear friends, don't be angry, don't shout, that's your perception. In Istanbul, you call those who perform in Istanbul, the servants of the Jewish lobby, you call the people who exercise their rights on a basic right to lice, you call them the foyer lobby of drugs, you call them the Uludere, Roboski the fugitive. Is this your basic sense of right and freedom? Is that it? Is that your understanding?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0023par0266	We're not talking about the ring. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0024par0267	Don't flex.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0023par0268	Why are you twisting it? Don't flex.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0025par0269	Dear friends, let me tell you something. Dear friends, at the age of 18, a citizen called Civil Lightning died, died.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0024par0270	Who turned him on?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0025par0271	Why didn't you tell me once you were part of his pain from this podium? Yesterday the Prime Minister spoke at the group meeting. Isn't he a citizen of the Republic? She's 18. When he talked about lice, he was almost pulling tilili at your group meeting, the tilili was pulling out of the stands, the tilili was pulling out. Have we ever heard a sentence from the Prime Minister who would share the suffering of the Civil Lightning? We haven't heard from you on this stand. A man has lost his life, and you will be the first to share that pain. Dear friends, look, I lived and lived and lived as a lawyer, and I lived very well, and those who suffer the most are the ones who have the most peace. There's not a demonstration against the police station, there's a demonstration against the police station as a symbol, but it's a wish for peace, you don't understand. There's a symbol of the police station, but it's a wish for peace, a wish for peace. Did you listen to the women there?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0024par0273	Do you want to make peace with the Molotov cocktail?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0025par0274	Look, did you listen to that woman over there?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0024par0275	Is there a desire to burn and destroy and make peace?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0025par0276	Did you listen to that woman over there?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0024par0277	Will burning and destroying make peace, Mr. Sezgin?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0025par0278	Look, did you listen? How does he speak from the heart? How does he speak from the heart? You don't understand because we don't understand each other's language. She speaks Kurdish there; you don't understand her excitement; you don't understand her language; you don't understand her language; you don't understand her will; and on this stand you insult all the Kurds in the person of lice, in the person of the dead Medeni Yıldırım, and you say, "Drug."
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0024par0279	Who said that?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0025par0280	I condemn this environment, and I condemn this language, especially Mr. Prime Minister; you can't say! Look, what are you going to do? What are you going to do? People can use the right to perform. They may have fled from this demonstration, but your duty is to ensure that death will not take place. There will be no death, you will make it happen. There will be no death, you will make it happen. Look, you're lawyers. I advise you to read Dr. Tolga Smurf. In the Yanya newspaper last Saturday as a lawyer. I advise you as a lawyer, open it and read it. He teaches constitutional law at the University of Marmara. He wrote about the death of Ethhem Sarısülük. That's exactly what this is all about. Dear friends, look, the peace process is a difficult process. You'll solve the problem of 30 years, a hundred years, but you'll come here, Mr. Prime Minister, as if to challenge us last Wednesday, and then you won't expect people to react. In the east and southeast, despite everyone, despite all the institutions of politics, the people claim peace, and that's how you're going to read it. You have to read like this. If we're going to end this problem, if we're going to end it together, if we're going to build peace together, that's the way you're going to read it, there's no other way. So you came to power in 2002 -- let me give you the numbers. So what? You haven't said otherwise, and I've said more than I've said on this bench: 388 people have lost their lives from random shooting; tell me otherwise, I'll read their names here. From 2003 to 2012, 45 people have died due to police and security forces' involvement, but there is a complete lack of punishment. Just yesterday, at the Human Rights Court, you made a severe sentence for an incident that took place during your time. Weren't you in power in 2005, taking over another power in 2005? It happened in 2005, it was decided yesterday, but what does the Prime Minister say? My security forces have written an epic story. Open up, look at the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary, who is the epic against? In war, it's written against the enemy. Are those who are in the Travel Park, who are in Ankara, who are in İzmir, who are in Hatay the enemy? How does he write epics? What kind of understanding is that? Security forces have to protect people's lives first in the state of law, you'll look at it, but if you praise them, they wrote "Destan." If you say that in the Travel Park, the soldier in lice will take the automatic gun and scan it from behind, and you won't feel sorry either. You don't feel sorry, you don't say a word. They were all shot in the back. The same night I went to the hospitals, the same night: I visited all the hospitals, listened to the wounded. People are using peaceful demonstration rights. They may have thrown stones, but death isn't the result. Dear friends, not death. If we're really, really talking about something here... come, I'm giving you a blank check, I'm the Vice President of the Republican People's Party, let's not close the House, our proposals are here, they're all in Parliament. Let's change all the laws here from the police's indiscriminate use of force to the pepper spray, from the election dam to the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations. Why are you negotiating basic rights and freedoms? There's this many guys out there, there's not this many, it's 10 percent, it's 20 percent, why do you do it? For 30 years, the Kurdish issue has come to this point because of this logic. You used to say there was terror, there was conflict, there was no step. The same mentality has now been going on for ten years: sir, phase one is not over. In order for the election dam to fall, in order for freedom of expression to fail, in order for the arrested MPs to get out, who do we need, what do we need in order for the Diyarbakır prison to become a museum, what do we need? Why are you avoiding them? Are we going to do this in this House or not together? Dear friends, we all need to get our heads together, and I'm saying it with all of us, including myself. We're on the last exit after the bridge. Once again, we have no choice but to solve this problem together or in democracy. So there's no reason to put it off, put it aside, put it on October, let it go to November. Our citizens in lice have claimed peace and have come out demanding peace. All the villages of lice have been evacuated, all their villages. The most unsolved murders have occurred in people who left that county, tops. They've been through the deepest pain. That's why they take care of it. That's what you need to understand. So let's not delay, but let's set up this research commission and take a step towards Uludere, Roboski. Let's take another step at the same time, and let's decide not to close the House today, and let's not leave the steps at the point of democratisation until October 1st. We have a chance to do this, we have a chance to pull this off. Or we can all be sad in the summer. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0026par0289	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0027par0290	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0026par0291	Mr. President, you're insulting all Kurds as well as Yilmaz Bey's speeches, expressing our Prime Minister in the oratorial speech. I'd like to answer, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0028par0292	He'll apologize, Mr. President. Promise me.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0027par0293	I promise you for two minutes, Mr. Aydın, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0029par0295	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0027par0296	But please, Mr. Sakik, there's no such thing as teasing.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0029par0297	Mr. President, now, look, we've got a people from seven...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0027par0298	One moment, Mr. Aydın, we'll talk.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0030par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear fellow lawmakers, of course, I would like the speaker to use a sincere language, and I would really like their expressions to be sincere -- expressions from his heart -- from his accent. Now, who insults Kurds, who serves for Kurds or Turks or 76 million people who live in this country, is appreciated by our citizens. Dear friends, who discriminates in the southeast once, why do you use such a segregation language? Who is it that has taken this country out of its extraordinary state and has made this country democratic? I'd like to ask that in particular. A Kurdish citizen could not even say that I am Kurd. We're talking about the unspoken here yesterday, uncriticized yesterday, and we're able to criticize yesterday's untouchables in a very comfortable way here today. Yesterday, a lot of non-imaginative activities were eliminated by the AK PARTY, and shouldn't you be thanking me a little bit? Of course, it's not a blessing, it has to be done. We're not going to be regional nationalists. We said, "We're not going to be ethnic nationalists." We said, "We're not going to be religious nationalists." We counted all who lived in this country as one and as equals, we counted as fair, and that region began to serve with the EC PARTY, and began to invest with the EC PARTY. Just last week, we were in the area with 30 of our deputies, and before that, a month ago, we were in the area with 50 of our deputies. We've been in and out of the area ever since day one, walking around, keeping track of the problems. And from that point of view, like I said, I expect intimacy. If you really want the solution, why did you once sign your signature under the research commission on the solution that we've given you before, and why did you sign your signature on the bottom of this motion? What did you say when you pulled it? You said you'd give it back with a signature. Now, you're working so hard to block, block all the democratic steps that the EC PARTY has taken so far, that while we're making moves in these democratic ways, while we're doing reforms -- I'm sorry -- we're doing it in spite of you. You speak well here, you do well in literature, but a man's service is a man's work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll be sincere in that way, you'll be truthful, and on behalf of this nation, I invite you to do something for the sake of service.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0313	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0315	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0316	We had a request for a word.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0317	What do you have to say for yourself, Mr. Sakik?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0318	The Kurds have been talking here all morning, they've been called drugs from seven to 70 of the district; it's been known to all Turkey as a whole, and there's a major victimization here, and our party members have been shot at, and nine people are dead and nine people are injured, and you say we still have no right to say anything about it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0319	That's not true, Mr. Sakık.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0321	Wait a second... It's not true that the Peace and Democracy Party is the one who proposed it, right?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0323	Right, right.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0324	Oh, if you don't say it's true, I'll say you didn't know about your party anyway. On behalf of you, Mr. Tan spoke for ten minutes in favor of the group's proposal for Peace and Democracy.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0325	That's right.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0326	How else are we supposed to make promises? Where's the injustice here, where's the victim?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0327	But after the talks of Tan....the group spokeswoman misinformation the Parliament, Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0033par0328	Mr. President, he gave us the wrong information. We need to fix it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0329	No, if Mr. Bronze had picked on you while he was talking, if there was a word against your speaker, let's make a promise.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0330	My eye, there was teasing. My dear President, there's been both teasing and misinformation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0331	But here, every congressman, every time he wants to...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0332	I mean, what's the point of arguing about two minutes of time?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0333	No, I always do.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0334	Give it to me now.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0335	It has to be in order.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0336	It's in order.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0337	No, sir, will you, dear?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0338	One county will be charged with drugs from seven to 70 here, and we shouldn't be in Parliament if we can't defend the law of this.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0339	No one accused him of seven to 70, sir, so let's get the transcripts and read them.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0340	Mr. President, why are you so...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0341	Mr. Sakık, if seven to 70, and all the Kurds in Southeast...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0342	I say seven to seventy.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0343	One second, sir, one second... If he's accused of smuggling, heroin trafficking, I promise, I'll get the reports.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0345	I'm saying seven to seventy.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0346	Please, I mean, no such thing.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0032par0347	Mr. President, look, what did he say? Ask the whole Parliament, what's the word on lice?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0034par0348	There was no bullying of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0349	No... in the speech of Mr. Godkulu, the Prime Minister had made a statement that he had accused all of his Kurds, so I gave him the taunt.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0034par0350	Mr. President, the speaker gave false information in his speech, and we want to correct that false information.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0351	What misinformation did he give, sir, and what did he say wrong?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0034par0352	He informed me that the police station had been attacked and that there was a shooting in the air, and we want to correct that false information.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0035par0353	That you were shot in the back, that a man was killed... and that these people are our brothers and our comrades. Well, if we can't defend their law, why are we in this Parliament?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0031par0354	Mr. Sakik, there is no bullying; just for your speech, I'll give you two minutes, please. Yeah, well, there's no harm done, so now it's time for everyone to drop victimology.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0035par0356	Anyway, my dear President, we know your attitude. Mr. President, dear friends, look, you're talking about something; we're going to have a little, a little conscience first. Now, this town you're talking about, all of Turkey knows very well, it's the district where the Kurdish freedom movement is shaped. In 1924, it is our proudest district to resist rejection and denial policies. Now, aren't you talking about drugs, and don't they ask you, why are 84 outposts being made in class? So, lice isn't a border district, it's not my class, and you're talking about brotherhood law, and people in lice are saying -- in fact, you have to go back and thank them a thousand times -- that this policy of yours doesn't serve the peace process, these policies... You'll continue the peace talks, you'll build castles on one side, you'll build outposts on the other side, you'll put new staffs on the village rangers, sir, on the other hand, the military shipment says... There will be no Civil Lightning, and there will be no ambush in peace, my brother, there will be no treacherous project B with Project A in peace. These are the ones who have made it clear to you. For him, these things are being fired upon, and you have to do this... from the past to the present. Who sabotaged this process? If you're a true pacifist, you should have investigated that station commander immediately. But what are you doing?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0036par0364	There's been an investigation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0035par0365	Like the investigation in Roboski... what happened, a year and a half in Roboski, then to the military prosecutor... why? Because we've always said on this stand that the perpetrators who are investigating the murder don't get caught. Especially if the Kurds and Alevis and the socialists of this country are the victims of this job, there are no perpetrators at all. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You know, in the name of God, there's no drugs, there's a reaction to peace.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0037par0369	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0038par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0037par0371	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0038par0372	Thank you. The ruling party, the deputy leader of the group, has made a misleading statement to both the Parliament and the Parliament.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0037par0374	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0038par0375	I will, Mr. President. In addition, the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY have come to serve the region, and with the EC PARTY they have invested the region. In addition, Mr. President, why did you sign your signature on the Commission for Information by accusing our speaker of insincereness? It caused a suspicion about our party in public and the Assembly General Assembly. We demand word.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0039par0378	Here you are, Mr. Altay, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0038par0379	Intuitive God-fearing will speak.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0039par0380	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0040par0384	Dear friends, look, you can't mix apples with pears. I'm the one who wrote this proposal, and we gave it to our friends, but you ran away from the negotiation. Let's set up a real commission like the Constitutional Compromise Commission, let's at least be equal in appearance, let's start this way, you've already got a majority here, you're doing everything. Let's not hand over Turkey's most difficult issue, or even the most difficult issue in the world to your majority, because we have an example of the Uludere commission. So we said, "Give up your majority. I asked the Secretary General of Parliament, he may be a witness." The Justice and Development Party may not give members if they want to, and they may be equal to you. But you took orders here, and we signed them. Otherwise, we're on the side of the solution, but we're not with the Prime Minister. Sorry, we're not with him. We are with peace to the end, to the end. We'll do whatever we can to keep a man from dying, whatever it takes. We'll do that, but we don't have to be there for him about the Prime Minister's agenda that we don't know about. I'm the one who said, "Come, let's set up an equal commission in this House." But what did you do? Now, do you call that a commission? There are 10 AKP members, 1 BDP members. That's not a commission! That's not the Commission of Solutions! No. Again, we'd be there equally, you'd have a majority here, you'd do what you wanted, but you didn't agree, not even on the surface, not even on the surface. He is the one we oppose. Otherwise, here we go, our proposals are clear. Why don't you come? I'm asking you. Look, peace is a gesture. The Prime Minister has many experts with the Deputy Prime Minister, I know, I know all of them, I've seen them a long time before they did. They say the very right things, but what they say is true, Mr. Prime Minister and you do the opposite, the practice is obvious. You speak the most painful language of all time. I'm just saying this because it hurts for me. I've lived, I know, and I know the opposite will be very painful for Turkey. So speak as the advice of those who offer it to you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How do you solve a conflict? But you're doing exactly the opposite of what they say, that's what we're saying. And no one can question my sincerity. My past is clear, no one can question it. Everyone knows where I come from, they know exactly what party I'm from, what we're doing, our bill is in the air; come, I invite you to be sincere. The basic rights and freedoms are non-negotiable, come, let's do it together in the House, we say so. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0041par0392	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0042par0393	Mr. President, for the record. Of course, he invited me to be sincere, and I just told him that a man's ritual is a business. It's obvious who did what he did, that's the one. Secondly, our Prime Minister has no unknown agenda. He has only one agenda; he is a prime minister who works for peace, brotherhood, and peace of mind in this nation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0041par0396	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has asked for a statement against Salih Koca, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0043par0402	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, and I salute your grand delegation. The Justice and Development Party was actually on the side of law and justice from the first day it was founded. At any point in this country, injustice and unlawful conduct have been a courageous party, and it has relied solely on its nation and continued its struggle with the power it has taken from its people. In all the work he's done, in all the services he's done, in particular and especially in this process, the state and the nation have been constantly pre-empting the merger. The state and nation have established a non-ethnic, regional and religious nationalism, all 36 different ethnic elements living in this country, all united and united, and held the unity and unity of all ethnic elements in the country, with its Kurdish, with its Lazkyle, with its Lez, with its Romanian, with its Bosniak, with its Bosniak. In particular, he addressed the entire 76 million nations of this nation as he conducted his politics, and he was eager to take his services to 100 percent of our people. Especially where there's terror and violence, there's no talking about peace and democracy, there's no talking about the process of resolution, there's no talking about ideas. So, in this process, the Justice and Development Party has brought our country to a much more important point in this decade, in order to resolve, discuss ideas and talk proposals, and to prepare the democratic ground. He specifically wanted problems to be solved by talking. At many points today, new outposts are, of course, being built, and while these stations are being built, they're mostly done on the security of our country, on the welfare of our people, on the greater security of our people, and on the greater security of our people.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0044par0406	Then do it to Eskişehir!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0043par0407	These outposts are not only in the east and southeast, but in four parts of our country, at the same speed, they are built to suit our country, to fit our nation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0044par0408	No country boasts about a police station, no country!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0043par0409	We hope there's no need for these outposts. Just last week, we visited east and southeast with our fellow MPs from the north of our country, south to west, along with many of our friends from the eastern and western provinces, Mush, Ağrı and Erzurum, headed by our group's deputy president and vice president. We've visited all the way to our counties, Hasköy and East White. We met with our people, our citizens who were there, and we talked, and we listened to their troubles, and we shared our knowledge of the process. Whatever point we've gone to, really, we've encountered the great gratitude of our people. In particular, we have listened to many of our citizens' requests, requests, and requests for the immediate conclusion of this process, before the process of resolution is interrupted, and more important than the services. Thus, for the first time in this period, our citizens have told us that they are free to go out to pasture, to pasture, and to pasture, so they can have picnics in any area. They mentioned that there were checkpoints at many points in interstate travel, but there were no more problems like this and that. So, especially with regard to this process, we've seen them express their sincere gratitude, their sincere gratitude to those who contribute to this process, to the past, to all contributors, especially our Prime Minister. In this process, we believe that we can solve this problem within democratic boundaries, as we take steps to solve all of our country's problems, and that we need to solve this problem within democratic boundaries, and that we have the same responsibility as all of us, as lawmakers, under the roof of this parliament, representing the nation under the roof of this House. Under this responsibility, we believe that we can solve this problem together with our nation's support and efforts. I believe that what needs to be done about the process is done and will be done after that, that I am against the BDP group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0045par0414	President, we've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0046par0415	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit01spe0047par0416	I'm going to submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes, and I'm also going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't agree... because there's been a disagreement between the clerks... we'll do it with electronics. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0047par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... the MPs, the decision is enough, the proposal is not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday/7/2013, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. In recent days, the attacks on Iraqi Turks and the Turks of East Turki have increased since July 1, 2013, and on July 1, 2013, when their friends gave 15841 points to the head of the TBM. The Parliament's motion to investigate these issues was proposed to be read on Wednesday 3/7/2013 (today) in the General Assembly, where its talks will be met in today's unification, in order for the government to implement the necessary measures. The National Movement Party has asked for the group's proposal, Reşat Right, Slap MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0048par0018	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the motion to investigate the attacks against the Iraqi Turks and the Turks of East Turk. I salute the High Council. As of the 19th century, the 18th century, the Ottoman state's glory ended, and the Turkish state began to decline. Of course, this decline increased further in later times, and then, as you all know, the state of the Republic of Turkey has been established on the land of Anatolia, which is 77,000 square miles [77,000 km] of land. However, the fact is that the attacks against our country and the Turkish state continue heavily today. So, as we've seen, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and elsewhere, a number of studies under the debacle of openings are unfortunately tearing people's hearts out. Honourable lawmakers, it's true that in the coming time period, I'm afraid we're going to have to look forward to more of these days. So, the games that are being played on the Turkish state continue to increase day by day, and the great Turkish Grand National Assembly, which should have stopped the increase, and we, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately, are watching by avoiding events. I mean, part of the Ottoman Empire's process of disintegration is unfortunately coming to us right now. I believe that these will be conscious and we will all be able to act differently in the next time period to ensure that our country, the state of Asia Minor, is protected together. Respected MPs, recent attacks against Iraqi Turks and the Turks of East Turkia have increased and massacres have also been launched. On 25 June 2013, in the town of Tuzhurmatou, the town of Selahattin, Iraq's Turkmen Front Vice President Ali Hashim Mukhtaroğlu and Vice Governor Ahmet Husband of the city of Selahattin have lost their lives and been martyred as a result of a traitorous terrorist attack. In recent years, Iraqi Turks have been under heavy attack, planned destruction. As a result of Iraq's invasion of the United States and coalition forces, the Turks suffered great losses. US-backed angsts attacked the Iraqi Turks everywhere, forcing them to change demographic structures in many cities, especially Kerkuk. Members of parliament, many of our brothers were killed, wounded, and forced to leave Iraq as a result of the attacks. Recently, the planned attacks against the Turks, especially those with jobs and power, have, unfortunately, increased again. From his doctor to his engineer, many of our brothers have been kidnapped or killed. Aggressors who are tasked with draining Turkmen blood are slaughtering on massacres. Living bombs, assassins, terrorists, assassins, they're killing people without a break. Turkmen's identity, Turkmen's presence, Turkmen's work, Turkmen's consciousness is the target of bloody ambitions. The Turkmen are being forced to migrate depending on them, and the pressures are increasing, unfortunately. Members of parliament, in the 21st century, in the so-called modern age, East Turkistan was also under cruel pressure and massacres. The entire world, especially Europe and America, must see and closely monitor the violence of violence. Today is the worst nightmare in the world, unfortunately, in East Turkistan. In recent days, attacks and massacres in the Uygur region have been increasing, and as a result, dozens of our brothers and sisters have been brutally murdered. Congressmans, China is the head of the world where there is no law, no justice, no law. Neither the judge nor the prosecutor nor the police in China are doing anything against the persecution of our brothers in East Turkistan. Unfortunately, the fate of nearly 30 million Turks in China is unknown; cruel torture continues in prisons, police stations. Thousands of Uygur Turks were sent to mental hospitals and tens of thousands of people were executed without trial in East Turkistan. The events and persecution of East Turkistan and Iraq must lead to the most important events in the world. In view of all this, Turkey must take care of our brothers. Unfortunately, however, the AKP government does not take care of our Turkish brothers in Iraq, East Turkistan, Syria, Ahiska, Karabağ. That's not true. He meets with Prime Minister Barzani, invites him to his party's general congress, but for almost five or six years he hasn't spoken to Turkishmen representatives, unfortunately he won't listen to them. The Turkishmen's fate is abandoned at the mercy of the pessimarchs, so it seems that neither the government nor the Prime Minister is concerned with the fact that Turkmen have been subjected to ethnic cleansing, oppression, and oppression. This is a huge injustice and injustice to the Turkmen. However, even though the Turkmen were very patient, they no longer had the power, the ability. Our Turkmen brothers are deliberately driven into isolation, isolated, and shot from their homes. The attacks on Turkishmen leaders in Tuzhurmatu are neither the first nor the last. However, Kerkuk, Mosul, Telafer, Tuzhurmatu are on edge; insecurity and confusion, the uncertain head is on its way. The Turks are confused, they don't know what to do. Prime Minister Erdogan must surely hear the cries in Tuzhurmatu, in Kerkuk. The government must and must hear the suffering of our kin all over the world. In East Turkistan, the Turks of Uygur also shed blood. Why does the government not hold Rabia Kadir, the leader of East Turkia, when it welcomes Barzani, Talabani, and Talabani? Rabia Kadir is a hero, a leader accepted by the world. The righteous case of the Turks of East Turkia speaks bravely throughout the world, despite all kinds of impossibleities. Ma'am Rabia Kadir is not invited to our country. Honourable MPs, those people are our brothers. The government, especially the NGOs, must have all kinds of issues. He must carry his righteous desires all over the world, produce reactions from societies. However, none of this is, unfortunately, ever being done, or inadequately, in very little way, trying to be done in a weak way. Turkey's security is passed through Cyprus, Kerkuk, Ahiska, Karabağ. Here, all of this needs to be investigated and taken into account the necessary measures. The AKP government and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan must defend the right cases of our Turkmen brothers and not the government of Iraq, but the international institutions. In this regard, our NGOs must also have huge tasks. He must act quickly. The great Turkish nation must be in Kerkuk, Ahiska, East Turkistan, Cyprus, Karabağ, Shusha, and follow them. As Turks of Turkey, we stand by the relatives, condemning and condemning all attacks on the Turks. Tuzhurmatu is Turkish, turkuk is Turkish. Turkmen is a flag, a country, a love. The Turkish world will always be our love, and no one will ever be able to change that. We know and follow the persecutions and betrayals of our brothers. We were with them yesterday as Turkish nationalists, and we are with them now, and we will be with them on every occasion, and we will surely be with them on the Day of Judgment. So, based on the reasons we're talking about up there, we've drawn up a research motion to investigate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and take the necessary precautions. So, in the end, I want to say that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the great Turkish state, the Turkish government should care about these issues because everyone needs their support. The great Turkish nation must take care of its precious people. What happened in Karabağ today, what happened in East Turkistan, what happened in Iraq, what happened in Syria. Syria must also be taken care of, Iraq must also be taken care of, and our Turkmen brothers there must be troubled about all kinds of problems. But our fear is that all of this is being left to one side, Turkey is being tried to avoid with artificial agendas. But I believe the great Turkish nation is sensitive, the Turkish state is sensitive. I hope that our research proposal will be considered this way, that it will be voted, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0049par0033	Thank you. Ahmet Berat Çonkar, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0050par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the nationalist Movement Party's motion to investigate the growing attacks on the Iraqi Turks and the Turks in the last few days to take the necessary measures, with respect to your grand delegation. Starting with my remarks, I'm congratulating our relatives who have died in several attacks around the world and, finally, our condolences on the recent death of Iraqi Turkmen's Front Vice President Ali Hashim Mukhtaroglu and the Vice Governor of Selahattin Ahmet Koca. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the principles of the United Nations as a respected member of the international community and the principles of respect for the foreign policy of Turkey, which is responsible for following the norms of this community, respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of other countries, and do not interfere in domestic affairs. Turkey respects China's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. In light of China's universality of human rights, it also says that it expects the Uygur Turks to ensure that they live in peace, security and prosperity within international human rights norms and standards in their own homes. The most important manifestation of our country's importance to the region are visits to the highest level. The first visit to the Sincan Uygur Autonomous Region took place at the President's level in 2009 and the first visit at the Foreign Minister level in 2010. During his visit to China on April 8-11, 2012, our Prime Minister visited Beijing and Shanghai, as well as Urumchi. This is the first visit in history from Turkey to the Prime Minister level. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has taken a close interest in the Uygur's fate, future and living conditions and sees the Uygurs as a bridge of friendship with the People's Republic of China. In this scope, it is of great importance that the Uygurs live in equal conditions with the citizens of the Chinese People's Republic of Han, protecting their own culture and identity. With that understanding, we continue our efforts to contribute to the development of this region in terms of the importance that we attribute to the rise of the Uygur's life level and co-operation with the Chinese authorities. As a matter of fact, the establishment of the Turkish industrial zone in Urumchi was expressed by then Minister of State Mr. Zafer Çağalan during the visit of the Chinese People's Republic of China Prime Minister Wen Jiabao in 2010. Prime Minister Wen of the People's Republic of China has stated that they will consider the proposal. The Memorandum of Covenant was signed in 2011 in connection with the creation of the Joint Work Group for the Establishment of the Turkish Industrial Zone in Urumchi. During his visit to the People's Republic of China on April 8-12, 2012, he was invited to invest in the Sincan Economic and Technological Development Zone with various incentives, and the prospect of the People's Republic of China to invest in the region was voiced in talks. Our Prime Minister has indicated that he will encourage our businessmen to invest in the region, and he continues his incentives. On the occasion of the 2nd Chinese-Avrasian Fair on September 1st, 2012, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan (Second Minister Ali Babacan) who visited Urumchi (Second Minister of Economics) on the grounds of the 2nd Chinese-Avrusian Fair on September 5, 2012, officials of the Ministry of Economics met with the Sincan Uygur Autonomous Region on the matter of the Turkish Industrial Region. In the industrial area, the Islamic Holding chocolate factory is being opened, and Sutaş is on the move to produce dairy products. Meanwhile, the Turkish Trade Centre Erdaoqiao, a shopping centre for Turkish brands in Urumchi, was launched on 1 August 2012. According to 2010 statistics, China Southern Airlines, one of the most powerful airlines in the People's Republic of China, began its campaigns in Beijing-Urumchi-Istanbul on 22 November 2011, three times a week. The flight plan to Istanbul-Urumci route is on the agenda of Turkish Airlines as part of the fleet's resources. Mr. President, the valued MPs live in disorganized lanes of Iraq's Turkmen, which extend southeastern Iraq and Syria, starting from the border with Turkey, Iraq and Syria, and are called the Turkish Region. The five provinces of Turkmen are Musul, Erbil, Kerkuk, Diyala and Selahattin. The population of Turkishmen in Iraq is not known for certain, but according to various sources it is estimated to be between 800,000 and 2 million. The Iraqi Constitution lists elements of the Iraqi people as well as the Sunni-Sii Arabs and Kurds as well as the Turkmen. In the Constitution, Arabic and Kurdish are accepted as official languages across the country, while Turkishmen are based on the basis where they can learn their native languages at state and private educational institutions, while local languages can also gain regional formal language status through popular voting in areas where Turkmen live in densely concentrated areas. Article 125 of the Constitution shall also guarantee the rights of Turkishmen, Assyrians and other groups regarding administrative, political, cultural and educational rights and regulations on these issues shall be made by law. In the post-2003 period, many Turkishmen's political parties were formed throughout Iraq, with the number of already 20. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the status of the bilateral regions, especially the status of Kerkuk, and local elections that have not been held for a long time in this province, general elections envisioned in 2014, IKB-central government relations and security are a priority concern of the Turks. Because of its unique circumstances, it is vital to the Turks that the three elements in the province -- Turkmen, Kurd and Arab -- be taken in all matters related to Kerkuk. Among the proposals proposed by UN, thinkers and interested parties in Kerkuk, for the final status of Kerkuk (Kerkuk) so far, Turkmen have given private status to their most distinguished Turkmen. Election bases in talks between Turkmen, Kurds and Arabs; election date, voter logs, sharing of high-level tasks -- for local elections to also be held in Kerkuk, have yet to come to a conclusion from talks on the draft law drafted by UNAMI. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are causing concern in the Turkmen community, which is more disadvantaged in political and economic power than any other group, in which tension relations between the IKB and the central government and the ongoing protests of the Sunni sector are becoming conflicted with the central government security forces. As a matter of fact, tension has increased in the region following an operation by central government security forces against protestors in the district of Havice, in Kerkuk Province, on April 23rd, which resulted in several casualties. Meanwhile, in recent terrorist attacks in Iraq, targeting the country's ethnically and religiously populated cities and the dense population of Turkmen are another factor that raises Turkishmen's concerns. Finally, Turkmen in Tuzhurmatou district, the majority of the province of Selahattin, closed the road to Baghdad-Kerkuk to protest the terrorist incidents that took place on 23 June 2013, including 13 people, including Iraqi Turkmen's Front Vice President and Selahattin County Assembly former member Ali Hashim Mukhtaroglu, who lost their lives and many others were injured during the June 25th suicide attack during which such protests continued. The attack has sparked a broad echo in the Turkmen community. After the attack was discovered, Mr. President Ershad Salihi, the president of the ITC, called and expressed his condolences and sent a message of condolence to the person mentioned. At the same time, our Minister, Ershat Salihi, and the son of the deceased Ali Hashim, received a message from Ali Hashim and Ahmet Kabul to a service at the centre of the ITC, before the burial of the bodies in Tuzhurmatu. Increased terrorist attacks in dense areas have been observed in the Iraqi Turkmen community that have often sparked demands for Turkishmen to form their own local security forces. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Kurds, Turkmen and Arabs in Kerkuk have lived together for centuries, and from now on, they will live together in peace, forever. We equate Kerkuk's unity and unity with the unity and unity of Iraq. As Turkey, as a nation, we say that all our brothers and sisters who live in Iraq are our brothers, regardless of their origin. We will live as brothers and sisters forever. We will live in peace with our Sunni, Shia, Arab, Kurd, Turkmen, Christian brothers and sisters forever. We believe that Kerkuk will be one of the fastest and rising cities in the world, not only in the Middle East, but in the coming period, with its wealth and, most importantly, the brotherhood of the Kirkukites. Turkey is mobilising all its resources for Kerkuk's development, and after that, it will not hold back from any effort. As state and nation, we will continue to be with our descendants at all times in East Turkistan, Iraq, Syria, and all parts of the world. In this emotion and thought, I declare that we will vote against the motion to investigate, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0051par0059	Thank you. On behalf of the group's proposal from the National Movement Party, Osman Taney Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0052par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Dear lawmakers, Iraq is one of the key stones of Turkish foreign policy, which has been very much on the agenda lately. It's a keystone because Iraq is a balance element in this region. Iraq creates a balance against Iran, a balance against the Gulf, and it is a position that Turkey will benefit from because of the stability of Iraq as a whole; otherwise, there is only one candidate in this region who can balance, and that candidate is Turkey. Turkey should not have such a desire, because Turkey is eager and determined to be a regional leader in a stable, stable, crisis-blocking and stable environment, not the opposite weight or balance of any other country in this region. Now, while Iraq is such an important country, we see with regret that relations with Iraq have become increasingly neglected. Immediately after Iraq's operation, Turkey took a serious interest in Iraq, set up a mechanism for neighbouring countries, with which Iraq took the necessary measures to preserve its territorial integrity, national sovereignty, and sovereignty. It had reached a point where at one time this mechanism had expanded to neighbouring countries and permanent members of the Security Council, which had been headed by Turkey and maintained the unity of Iraq. As you all know, the Iraqi community has several main layers. The main layers of Iraqi society are Shiite Arabs, Sunni Arabs, Kurds and Turkmen. The only people in the Iraqi community who can't get the position they deserve, whether it's on paper, in fact, the Turkmen who can't get the position they deserve, are the Turks who can't. The Turkmen, as you know, are leaving as Shia and Sunni, and the Shiite Turkmen are a bit more than Sunni Turkmen. Is that why you're less interested in Turkmen? Although our friends who speak for power make good statements, they say that Iraq is looked at without racial, language, religion, sectarianism, but the pattern shows that this is not the case. Now, when you look at it, there's a very serious sectal conflict in Iraq. In the conflict of this sect, the government had a serious share in the attitude against Shiite leader Maliki. Every day in Iraq, there are explosions everywhere, assassinations, and unfortunately, Turkmen are getting their share of these assassinations. Iraqi Turkmen Front Vice President Ali Hashim Mukhtaroglu, who recently died in a major explosion in Tuzhurmatu, was a very important person, and he served as Vice President of the Shii wing within the Iraqi Turkmen Union. Now, to regulate the relations between Iraq and Turkey, there was a task of the Special Representativeship of Iraq, which was immediately engaged in the start of Iraq. The task of the Special Representative of Iraq was taken over by me for the first time, and we were here to make a serious effort to ensure the unity and integrity of Iraq, and to help Iraqi Turkmen in all the other layers of society to take their rightful place in Iraq. There's a lot of vague information on the number of Iraqi Turkmen in their territory. Why is there vague information? Because, as I just said, these Turkmen, some of them Shiite, are voting with the Shiite vote under the influence of the custody-i-Fakih establishment, and so their numbers are counted among the Shiites. The Turkmen number is what, it's not exactly known, but the serious Turkmen's weight there should be the protectors of the Turks, just as they are the protectors of Kurdish weight, as Shii and Sunni are the protectors of the Arabs. Our government, unfortunately, has recently eliminated what is called the Iraq Special Representativeship. Iraq has not lost its importance to Turkey. On the contrary, Iraq is increasingly important to Turkey, but the task, which will co-ordinate all efforts towards Iraq (Iraq) as its Special Representative, is being eliminated. In contrast, we see that all efforts have turned to Syria. There are Turks in Syria. What's being done about them? I don't know about that either. There's talk of aid from Myanmar to Tunisia, and there's talk of contributions, but we don't see the government's interest in Iraq right next to our neighbor in a civil war-like mess. Guys, there's something else. Now we're talking about the Uygur Turks. The Uygur Turks and the Uygur Turks in our talks with China, they're all very nice, but they're all talking about entering the government Shanghai Five. The Shanghay Five is a security organization, a security organization, which is basically set up to fight terrorism. The goal of this security organisation for China is the independence movement of the Uygur Turks and the Uygur Turks. We will enter the Shanghai Five. Does the government see the conflict between the Shanghai Five and the North Atlantic Treaty Agency? There's no way you're in one when you're in the other. Second, does the government also agree to fight the Uygur Turks, one of the targets of the Shanghai Five, when they enter the Shanghai Five? Is he doing this on purpose or on purpose? If he's doing it out of ignorance and involuntary, he's a little more desperate than he's doing it on purpose. Then can we say that we don't know enough about the main aspects of our foreign policy about Turkey's priorities? Look, the Plan and Budget Commission recently received a bill that envisioned the dismissal of the State Department from the profession, which was rejected, but bringing that bill means that the State Department doesn't need to have a career. If the State Department isn't a career, you guys make a lot of mistakes that look like this. You enter the Shanghai Five, we argue. You fight the Uygur Turks you call them; when Iraq comes out of hand, at the point of division, the Iraqi Turkmen first, in Iraq, you don't hold anyone's hand, you don't hold anybody's hand. Let me tell you once again here that we need to protect all of this with a career, a profession, a fund-raiser. Now, my dear friend, who spoke on behalf of power, has just told me that matters are important. Well, if these are very important issues, then why don't we accept the motion from the National Movement Party, and why don't we do some research? Let the importance of this come to light, and let Turkey's Grand National Assembly reveal how much it sees this importance, how much it emphasizes, how much you claim it. For him, the concepts of opposition to this proposal do not agree with the concept of being against it, and of caring for it. We think this motion is a very valid motion. The Syrian issue has already poisoned relations in the Middle East, and we think that it is necessary to approach Iraq and to investigate these issues within the Parliament to prevent Turkey from being drawn into an insufferable cessary, to surely discuss them, to find the truth, and to show that the Turkish Grand National Assembly is united on these lines. Dear friends, foreign policy is a national issue. Foreign policy is only a national issue if it is a national policy that gains power and can be followed, but in this foreign policy, it's not right to reject all the opposition's proposals and read what he knows, and to make it look like he agrees with the opposition. My sincere request is for you, for once, to bend over these circles of fire around Turkey. Come, let's accept this motion to investigate. Let's take this motion of investigation seriously, and let's get up here and discuss what, what, what, what, what is the position of the Turkmen, why they're gone, where they're going, where they're going, and what happens if they're left unclaimed? With these thoughts, I invite you once again to think about it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0053par0080	Thank you. Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP, who has asked to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0054par0083	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the proposal to bring up the motion to investigate by the National Movement Party's Parliamentary Group. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, a revolution of mentality has been carried out in foreign policy, as has been followed by the policies of the EC PARTI governments, and in foreign policy, Turkey has been transformed into the rising star of the new world, and it has been accepted to all worlds. No matter where in our politics, not only with our relatives, but with their color, their race, their religion, wherever there is persecution and injustice, there is a sense of foreign policy that will stand in the face of injustice. As a natural result, in 2008, the president of the Turkish and related communities abroad was established to personally deal with our relatives and relatives outside, who personally dealt with all kinds of problems, all kinds of problems, and are always actively and visually involved in their problems. The work of this institution is also appreciated by our kinsmen and those who live outside. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have entered the last week of the legislature. The law talks that concern the entire community and are expected in public as a law shall begin today. While the content of the motion is correct, I express my opinion that it is not right to be brought up as of today, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0055par0088	Thank you. I'm going to put the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0056par0090	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0057par0091	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit02spe0055par0092	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 129th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion has been denied. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday/7/2013, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 3/7/2013 by Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk and his friends, the Parliamentary Research Proposal (990 rows) was issued to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 3/7/2013 for the purpose of investigating and determining all the problems of tens of thousands of public employees as of March 2013. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday 3/7/2013 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0058par0021	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the parliamentary research motion we've made in order to investigate the problems of public employees known as the 4/C) and to take the necessary precautions, to address the victims. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, let's start there, what's 4/C? 4/C is the form of employment in the joke of the State Officers' Law, which is envisioned in Article 4/C. Article 4 of State Officers' Law No. 657 organises the employment forms of public employees. The 4th Article (C) joke also states that there is less than a year's or seasonal service, based on the views of the State Chief of Staff and the Ministry of Finance and the decisions of the Council of Ministers, who are contract workers and are not considered employees. Now, valued lawmakers say, as stated here, that there is less than a year of service and seasonal service, the opinion of the Ministry of State Staff and the Ministry of Finance will be taken and decided by the Council of Ministers. Now, whether a job is temporary or continuous, whether it is seasonal or campaign work is not determined by the definitions of parties. Based on the nature of the work, or the nature of the workplace, it is defined whether a job is continuous, whether it is continuous work, whether it is seasonal work. As far as it's concerned, a campaign period is limited to seasonal work. In fact, there is no legal consequence to a job that is fundamental and continuous, when the employer defines it under different names. Article 10 of Job Law 4857 has been referred to as "a continuous job that lasts thirty working days" in terms of its qualifications. Now, when we look at our employees, our employees have been divided into slices of status; 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, 4/D, infrastructive, non-containable, no sir, temporary workers, seasonal workers, all made artificial distinctions. Here, in fact, it is not done according to the nature of the work, as the law stipulates and clearly stated in the judiciary, but it is one of the ways that employers, as a state, the employer, take to avoid the obligations imposed by the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today, a bag of laws will be here shortly. Under the law, this bag is placed into staff staff members under the 4/B of State Officers' Law No. 657. A total of 72,485 people, 23, 772 people, about 90 thousand people will be put into the ranks -- maybe tomorrow, maybe in a little while -- but this law is about staff working within 4/C, it's not foreseeable, it's impossible to understand that. Now, this Turkish Grand National Assembly is making law. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, for one thing, of the state of social law. Even in this assembly, there are 4/C people who serve us in this hall. 1,441 members of parliament work under 4/C. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the status of the staff working under this 4/C is in fact unclear. This is that: With the hours and hours appointed for government officials in determining the hours and hours determined, the employee has an obligation to conclude the tasks given to him without sticking to the hours given to work, flexibility is performed in the public. They don't have unions. Since these are defined as seasonal workers, they are not included in official status, and on the other hand, they are not considered employees because of the fact that this Article 4/C has a contractual and does not count as workers. I mean, they're like ostriches, if you put it that way. They asked the ostrich, "Why don't you fly?" He said, "I am a camel." I mean, now, there's no telling if they're civil servants or workers. That's not a description, fellas. In Article 2 of our Constitution, the qualifications of the Republic have been defined. Here, one of the most important qualities of the republic is the principle of being a social law state. The principle of social welfare is the protection of the weak, the people who are economically weak. So the social government principle, in fact, is a principle to protect those who are economically weak in the face of those who are strong in economics. Now, it is very clear in Article 128 of our Constitution that the permanent and primary tasks of the state are carried out by public officials, and they are always done by personnel, but the work that is permanent and essential as a quality is done by these artificial discriminations, in fact, to people in less wage and more difficult working conditions. The fact that there is much unemployment here in Turkey is being exploited, my dear friends. Now, look, 1,441 people in the House actually work under 4/C. Now, think of a citizen who does the same thing in Congress, think of two kavas in this room, one working under 4/C, and one working in the other scope -- assuming that he works at 4/B) -- being discriminated against separately. Now, my dear, what's going on? Are these less rights when they work temporarily? Of course they are less. They used to work less than ten months, and in 2002, the Council of Ministers ruled 11 months and 28 days. In fact, their wages and their working hours are determined by the Council of Ministers. $1,245 lira for higher education graduates, $1,139 for high school graduates and $1,032 for elementary school graduates, and again, they can't get pensions, they can't get benefits, they're underpaid. My dear friends, the employment form of this State Officers' Law (C) with the 4th Amendment (C) joke is a state-owned slavery. There is no other definition of this; our people are being abused, and this 4/C is the most ruthless of employment forms. In particular, I'm calling from here to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- he's new to his post -- first of all, the rights, the law of those who work in parliament. Parliamentary MPs are under arrest, the Speaker is doing nothing about it. The working staff of the parliament is being slaved, run by 4/C, and again the Speaker of Parliament is not taking any action. First of all, I think that the Speaker of Parliament, starting with this House, we, as lawmakers, need to end this inequality among our friends who work in this Parliament, we need to break this chain of slavery of our friends who work in this 4/C slave system together, and we need to put them on a working status that will allow them to live in human terms. Other than that, we're going to have 4/B staff members today, which are up to 47,000 in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it's everyone's request to have personnel on staff within 4/C. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0059par0037	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0060par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. We said it was against you, but I think there's been a misunderstanding. There's nothing to discuss against this, of course I'll speak in your favor.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0059par0042	Explain it to the public, Mr. Zozani. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0060par0044	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, now, a very important issue is actually this and the House should have solved this problem by now. However, if this problem has not been solved so far, there is only one explanation: The government is very insensitive. The government doesn't want this problem solved because the government has decided on the exploitation of labor. He has built a new policy on labour exploitation, and instead of completing staff needs, problems, he has based more on a policy that lowers staff and even lowers status within 4/C. As of this hour when we had this conversation in Abdi İpekçi Park, those living in retirement started a hunger strike. Why? Because a door that hears them, deals with their own problems, has never been opened in any way, they've found the only way to resort to hunger strike, they're currently on hunger strike. If the Minister were around, we'd have a chance to express it to him one-on-one, so I'd ask him to listen, but for every occasion for a year and a half, we share with Mr. Labour Minister the problems of these citizens, these employees, and the people whose rights have been seized, and each time, for another reason, he's effaced the problem. Does the government take away the rights of its own citizen? If you say no, here's proof: the state has claimed the rights of its own citizen, and this citizen has now gone on hunger strike at Abdi İpekçi Park in order to get the rights of this state. As for the people of 4/C, I think there's no other way to express the situation of the 4/C, but to apply to Ahmed Arif. You may be offended, but I think your forehead is at this point because Ahmed Arif described it best. It is possible to explain the government's current policy by applying its policies to the best Ahmed Arif. You know what he says: These are vipers and centipedes, These are the ones who covet our vaccine, Get to know them. There are no other words to describe the situation of these 4/C people, pensioners, subcontractors, people whose labor is being pursued by subcontractors. Dear friends, if you're not satisfied with Ahmed Arif, let me remind you of something from the sheriff. Come on, the sheriff says, "Give the people their hard work before the sweat is dry." So, on what basis do you want to describe this work force, with what? It's not a work force, but what is it? It's not just the law. The speaker has just expressed himself. There are people whose labor has been exploited under the House roof, and the agency's law says stop this labour exploitation. It can't solve the problems of the people who work under the 4/C, using the power of the Presidential Court. When we look into our room every day, in your room, in the eyes of the college graduate who probably serves tea, aren't you ashamed or ashamed? Imagine that the graduate of a political faculty comes to your room, serving you tea because you work for 4/C. What are you waiting for to solve this problem? Why don't you solve it? Why don't you solve the problem of various 4/C? Look, you've made a mistake somewhere; you've made a mistake by privatizing this country's profitable values, and in these articles, you've thrown out people who work for public economics, and you've made them self-sufficient. Now, what is this, not an eye for their sweat, their bread, their vaccine? You have to figure it out. The government has to stop being so insensitive. We're talking about 23,000 victims, 7500 victims, 76,000 victims, victims of these privatisations, victims of 76,000 people who have been put aside. Yes, this matter must be investigated and the problem must be solved, the problem must be solved. There's a package in front of us, and you brought a bag, so let's hope this bag helps. You've brought all the bags you've brought in to falsify the law, so at least, for God's sake, let's do a proper job this time before the House closes, let's solve this problem for the workers. Bring it in, it depends on a substance. You brought it here, you put it here, let's expand the scope of the matter, let's include the 4/B/B people, and let's solve this problem. Let's solve the problem of pensioners. Look, you took the bread from those people's table. As long as you don't return those people's bread, the bread you eat in your house is not lawful. You run the state, you're the ruling party. Yes, since you have received the bread from your own citizen's table, it is not lawful for you to eat in your house unless you return it. Now, at the beginning of every word, government officials talk about efficiency, prosperity in the economy when the ruling party's spokesman speak on this bench. Look, you're all traveling abroad on one occasion. All sale markets abroad are Turkish and Chinese goods. When you were so eager to become Chinese, to be like China, you competed with the goods in the markets of cheapness, in the shops of cheapness, in China. This is what you call efficiency in production. You're bragging about making inferior goods. At what cost did you do this? You tried to do it with cheap labor, labor exploitation. You think you're expanding the economy by producing cheap goods, inferior goods. We're not slandering. Go, wherever you travel around the world, look at the cheap shops, look at the origins of the goods there, see your own signature, two, you see the signature of China. Second, there is another point where you look like China, which is the subject of labor exploitation. You are similar to the policy that people work for food, and you have even exceeded China. You make people work hungry, you make people work hard. People worked, served, deserved retirement, confiscated his bread. At this point, you also passed China. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, where there are all these problems, it is not possible for us to oppose such a research proposal, and we support it. I hope the House will support me, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0061par0062	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Alim Izmir, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0062par0065	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favor of the agenda of the parliamentary inquiry motion for the investigation of the problems of public staff working within the 4/C of Republican People's Party Group MPs. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this issue of 4/C, which has come to the agenda from time to time in the Grand Assembly, has been extended to 11 months and twenty-nine days as a result of our most recent insistences in the last term, and we have solved this problem by the government. These 4/C people did not recover from the problems they experienced only when their work period was extended for twenty-nine days. This problem is a status fabricated, especially after the privatisation of staff working in public economic institutions that were privatised as a result of privatisation practices that accelerated during the AKP administrations. The fourth article (A) of State Officers Act 657 (A) regulates the work of permanent employees in state, public institutions and corporations; the (B) joke is about employees who are temporarily under contract; the (C) joke is that neither a camel nor a bird, or an ostrich, speaking between the citizens. Therefore, this country must be saved from the ostrich. Again, with today's data, these workers receive about $1,000 a month's salary, and they are sentenced to live on a salary of about 1,000 euros. As a result of the work done by NGOs, the poverty limit is now increased to 3,200, 3,300 euros, and you say to the 4/C (a third of the poverty limit) is to support your family of 4 people. We have been gracious to you. This was not there in the days before us. From time to time, the ministers say this, and in the privatisations, the previous ones were put at the door, and we were gracious to them, and we made up the 4/C. Dear lawmakers, the status you made up is a status that you have forced a family of four to live in today's hunger border. These 4/C have no union rights defined as camelbirds. His friend, a worker or an officer, does the same job, gets three times his salary. He gave up on her, because one is a member of the labor union, the other is a member of the officer's union, but you're not a human being, you can't be a union member. There's a status worthy of that. Their salaries are low, social rights can't be used, so there have been suicides, with pressure from that psychological environment, that have so far found numbers, maybe faces. People from 4/C are committing suicide. That's what we've been through in this country. In the same office, the officers and workers and supervisors of the same company work together receive an additional fee every month or three months for their share of that institution's return capital income, while the 4/C (c) people look at them outside the door, and how much money did our doctor receive today? How much did the sister receive, or how much did the teacher receive? They account for it. Dear MPs, this problem is Turkey's problem. Again, we asked the ministers what they were. If you look at the numbers, as of July 2012, these are 25,251 people, let's say today 30,000 people, if the Republic of Turkey can't fit the state, then we have to stop and think about where we're doing wrong, where we're doing wrong, and how we need to reassesss it. Dear lawmakers, you remember two years ago, the Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of State, Mr. Hayati Printer, who sat on the government's table for trade unions, made promises about the 4/C. He said, "We will give family and children to the people of 4/C." Dear lawmakers, it's been about three years since this, and in these three years, these people can't get any family help or child support. Today, Mr. Minister of Labor has made statements that we will sit with the Syndicates, that we will discuss the problems of the 4/C. Mr. Secretary, the problems you're about to put on this table have now become the problems that lead to suicides. What's going to happen at the table now? At the table, they will say: "We will give family help, we will give children help, but we will not save them from becoming ostriches. Their salary will be again, at the same rate as we appreciate, on the edge of hunger or below it. And when the vote came, friends -- the governments before you -- they made a lot of privatisations, they left you in front of the door, like there were a lot of 4/C. And now we've taken you out of the institutions we've privatized, and look what good opportunities we've given you. Look what we've given you. Today, there will be a law that we will be able to give 96,505 of the contracted personnel, with approximately 180,000 of them, to join the staff. We don't know how the other 90 thousand were eliminated. Here, as I have just mentioned, 96,505 personnel will be given a staff position at 72,485 4/B, 23,248 local administrations, 772 personnel at the Ministry of Health, as I mentioned, and the minister boasts of it. So why didn't you take the rest of the 90 grand, Mr. Secretary? Why didn't you give that right to around 25,000 people, and do you have anything to say to them? I suppose he'd say that here. This matter is very important, and it must be thoroughly investigated and resolved immediately. Because of the law, which we will meet today, the ears and eyes of the 4/CH people are in this great assembly. And they want the rights staff because before they were 4/C, they had staffs, they worked in government institutions with job guarantees, and they were regular employees. Now, you've sold the institutions where they work, you've acquired about $44 billion in additional revenues. During the Republic, you sold the institutions of other governments that served ahead of the AKP administrations, but... Yilmaz TUNÇ (Bartin) - Since 1994... It's been being done since 1994, but since 1994, the amount of revenues other than yours has been 5-6 billion dollars, 10 times that in the last decade. So, 90 percent of the people you've done 4/C are victims of the AKP administration. Maybe 10 percent of the time before that. Therefore, if this government is the one who solves it, it has to be this government. On the other hand, it violates the principle of equality in Article 10 of the Constitution. In the same room today, there are 4/C, 4/B, 4/A, they do the same thing. So, since you're making these people do the same job, it's the Constitution's obligation to know the same status. Dear MPs, there's a lot to be said about this, but once again, if we want to sum it up, it is within the scope of the law that will be on the agenda of the Grand Assembly today, that the 4/CH personnel will be taken into custody, and they are waiting for the good news to be given. I say this is the duty of the High Council. Otherwise, I believe those responsible for the suicides so far, when they examine their consciences, they have to think, think, and, as a result of their thinking, they will not be able to escape this plague in this world or in the next. Because these suicides aren't for nothing, these suicides are disbanding the nests, and I don't think you should be involved in the disbanded nests, so I hope so. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would like to ask that the motion to investigate this matter is in place and that the matter be investigated and resolved by the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0063par0082	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Vedat Demiröz, Bitlis MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0064par0085	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you all. My friends before me told me what has been done from the past to the present, what status has it come from. Of course, first of all, let me tell you, these employees are in our care, and we come from a culture that gives the rights to labor without getting cold.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0065par0087	Take care of the law and leave it to you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0064par0088	That's why I call it an unacceptable term to see 4/C people as slaves, and since our government has been in charge of them, we've always shown the effort we can do to improve the rights of employees, the rights of self-esteem, the amount of resources that we can. This is often brought up on the agenda of the 4/C people. We, in fact, think not once a month, but every day, like other friends of ours, who are in our minds every day.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0066par0090	You created it, you created it. Don't lie, you created it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0064par0091	It's a mistake to bring this up at the stage when we're about to discuss Law Proposal 478, which is unfortunate.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0067par0092	We've been talking about it for four years, talking about it every day. So, as you say, don't think we talk once a year on the moon.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0064par0093	We, today, hope to give 96,500 people a staff.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0068par0094	You should've given it to 4/C.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0064par0095	We have 23,500 4/C, about 2,000 of which are young people - works at Turkey's Statistical Agency.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0068par0096	Thank God, give me that too.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0064par0097	There are 4/C (21,500 other institutions), which we have 18,500,000 employees in Turkey, which is one in a thousand. This is a great country, and this government, which put 96,500 people on the staff today, will know how to sort out 23,500 people tomorrow, and when it's his time, hopefully, we'll come to you, and we'll work it out together.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0069par0098	Let's do it right now.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0070par0099	Let's figure it out.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0071par0100	Why leave it till tomorrow? Let's do it right now.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0072par0101	We discussed the Tenth Development Plan this Monday.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0073par0102	He's been interviewed, but no one knows.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0072par0103	It's about employment: Today, during the crisis, we are the first country in the OECD countries to reduce unemployment. From 2007 to 2012, we employed 4.4 million people. This is the same power that draws the unemployment rate in young people from 16.5 to 13.5. Today, I can give the person who works in our power the rights given to the 4/C. 4/C is also a legal section in which the Constitutional Court approves a mistrial. What have we ever given people in class 4/C? First, we went from 10 months to 11 months, then 11 months to 28 days. Workers who want to be from 4/C have been given special arrangements to apply to all employees. The wages of low-level 4/CH have been divided into primary schools, upper secondary schools and colleges, and hopefully, in the coming days, there will be an increase in wages, which will continue with a work in early August. Payments are presented to them on the 15th of every month, like officers. Work hours are held parallel to government officials, and together, the same hours and times are applied. The end-of-work compensation is being paid in parallel with severance pay, and at the end of the day, they get their compensation, and if there are dead, all their heirs are given the same rights. The end of the contract is paid in parallel to the severance pay for those who disbanded the contract on their own terms, for those who did not renew it, for those who did not. The annual sabbaticals were extended to two days a month, from one to two days.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0074par0112	Where? Where?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0072par0113	No. He's been released in two days. Within a year of their illness, they are granted up to 30 days of rest, and they are granted sick leave. Work continues on the employment of temporary employees, especially in their own provinces, and many are employed in their own province, if they exist. Criminal execution institutions are normally provided for by the staff in prisons, as well as by the other staff. It's about the 4/C people. Is that enough? It's not, but we say that today, the power that gives 96,500 people a position will hopefully solve the problem of 4/CL people as soon as possible. All of us, united together, will give them the good news in due time. As I said, our people, who are one in a thousand employees, I hope...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0075par0118	Wait till they eat the clover, huh?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0072par0119	No, we don't see them as slaves, we see them as crowns of our heads, we know their problems. As a government, make sure we give them the good news as soon as possible, as do 96,500 others today. I offer you my respect and love after such explanations. Hopefully, when we put 96,500 other people in charge of the bag bill, you'll all applaud together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0076par0124	Give it to me today, let's give it more applause!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0077par0125	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot vote among political parties at a meeting Wednesday/7/2013 (now), I request that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The draft of Law Proposal 478 and 479 to 478 rows and 479 rows, before the agenda was 48 hours later, to the 4th and 5th rankings of "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and to the 380, 230, 133, 121, 116 and 120 rows; and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to that order; Apart from the general council's weekly working days, 5, 6, 7 and 8 July 2013 Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday at 14 p.m. Meeting at 00 p.m. to discuss business in the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Wednesday, July 3, 2013 (now) until verbal questions are not discussed and the talks of Law Proposal 478 are completed, Until Thursday (July 4th, 2013) the meeting was completed until the Law Bill, number 230 in the unification of Thursday (July 4, 2013), Until Friday (July 5th, 2013) the meeting of the 121st Bill of Laws was completed, Until Saturday, July 6, 2013, when the talks of the works were completed until Bill No. 120 at the unification on Saturday, Until Sunday, July 7, 2013, when the talks were completed on the 429th Amendment, Until Monday (July 8th, 2013) the meeting of the negotiations of the law, which was held on Monday (July 8, 2013), was held in 227 rows. On Tuesday (July 9, 2013), the meeting of oral questions and other audit issues is not discussed, and the discussion of jobs from the "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" on the agenda is 11.00-23. To continue his work between the hours of 00 hours; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the day's schedule is incomplete, until the day's schedule is complete, The Law Proposal and Bill 478 and 479 are considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, and its divisions are in the accompanying form. It's recommended. SOME CONTINUES TO CONTINUE TO CHANGE THEIR DECISIONS OF BLOOD AND BLOOD [[2/1613, 1/778]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDE IN THE CHAPTER Articles 1 through 23 1. EPISODE (8) of the 8th Articles (a), (a), (a)......),.......................) and 29 [[f) including the dams]] 2. Chapter 24 through 52 Article 29 Articles 53 to 72 [[Of the 53rd article (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) and (a) ……]] [[♪]] 3. Article 72 (a), and (c) 26 Article 73 (a) by me [[n]] (a) bendinin (1),2.3), ▪3), and (5). The subbents were me; (c) bendi's. [[1]] and (2) subbents (c), (d), and (f) bends; (g) bends (1) and (2) 4. CHAPTER subnets (g) bend (1) and (2) 28 subbents number (h). and the number (3) sub-bents;//i),//i),//j) [[k]] Bents (1) of the bend (1) and (2) The undersides were me (m). (n) of the bend (1) and [[2) including the number-one sub-nets]] Article 73 (O) bendi 76 to 76 (o) subdivision (1), (2) and (3) Bents (1) and (2) of the (or) bends subbents of (p) bend (1), (2) and [[3]] sub-nets number (r) bendi (1), [[2]] 5. EPISODE and subnets number (3) (s) and (sh) 30 Bents: (t) bends (1) and (2) subbents, (u) and (u) dams, (v) bends [[1 and (2) submarines;]] [[y]] bendi; (z) bendin (1), %2) and (3) With the underbents (aa) and (bb) Interim 1st and temporary 2nd articles included) To Make Changes in Some Laws With Contracted Private and Private Law [[1/795]] Articles 1 through 21 21 Articles 22 through 43 22 Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0078par0205	Mr. President, I find the most valuable MPs have made a commitment to express my views in favor of the party's group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, in our group proposal, we plan to start today's talks on the bill of the 142 articles, known as the 478 rows of law, and in all five chapters. This bill contains a variety of laws and important regulations that bring changes to the KHKs in order to meet real social and institutional demands, to meet the emerging social needs. Second, we aim to move the Contracted Private and Private Law to the front of the agenda, including Article 35 of the TSK Internal Service Law, and to include two chapters of Article 43 of the Law Bill 479. Besides, at the moment, we propose that some international contracts, which are important in terms of naval law, are also put in the lead. Hopefully, if our work is completed the way we predicted, we aim to continue our work until next Tuesday, when the work is done. Hopefully, it'll be over sooner, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0079par0212	Thank you. Engin Altay, Sinop MP who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0080par0215	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I'd love to have the whole ruling party MPs listen to my speech. We are in the final days of the third year of our 24th term Parliament's Legislature, and in the fourth and fifth legislature, we have also made our parliamentary elections to determine our friends who will serve in the Presidential Court. Good luck to my friends, who are still re-elected in these elections. We have newly elected friends, and I am one of them, Mr. Mihrimah Belma has become my row partner, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and I wish him the success of his third and fourth years of life, to our other friends who will serve on the Presidential Court, to our Parliamentary Speaker, and to all of our friends in the Parliament, and to all of our Parliament. Dear friends, we all wish, no doubt, to serve under this roof, Turkey, our people, our nation. Politics -- no doubt you'll agree, you won't object -- has one basic goal to me, a politician has one basic goal, peace, prosperity, happiness of the nation. On behalf of myself and all members of my party, I can tell you that this is the sole purpose of our activities, actions and rhetoric in this parliament, as well as yours, for all parties, the same is true for our MPs. However, when we worked in this Parliament, we lived in this parliament for several times that would not match the reputation of this Parliament, and therefore, between the MPs, between the parties, between the nation and Parliament, there were unwanted views, judgments, perceptions. Now, all of you and all of us would like to have Parliament's public reputation at a maximum point. My dear friends, the way is clear. Now, in order for this to happen, there are duties for all of us here to see the dignity that Parliament deserves in the public conscience, in the community. We won't have a problem here, given the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, when we think of Turkey alone and only Turkey in doing these tasks. Now, backward, when I look at it, I don't want to rank the reasons that undermine the Parliament's dignity from above, but I need to point to a couple of points that I see. Now, from time to time, in our bilateral talks, I've always told the ruling party MPs: based on the advice of Edebali, patience for power, peace of mind, anger for the opposition. Not that I approve of anger. The opposition may be angry, but under no circumstances and under no circumstances does power have the chance and the right to anger. If this is known, this exercise will undoubtedly be stronger in harmony, harmony, and orchestration in Parliament. Then the laws your government requires will be swifter. Pride and pride is a disease that every power, unfortunately, can't get rid of the creation, the physique of man. However, minimizing this, minimizing pride and pride, is one of the key qualities and indicators of being in power, being a leader, and moving there. In this regard, if that's what I've just highlighted -- according to me -- to the right side of Parliament; patience, to the left, to the left. I wish that the rule of the new era should come to life. Power maturity is very important. For every occasion, there is one thing that some of our new friends, our new friends, and our new friends who came to Parliament: "Sir, the nation has supported us." Well, he gave it to us, and we didn't say anything. Because of the support of the people, you -- according to me -- you're sitting on the left side of Parliament, or else we'd be sitting there.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0081par0226	We're sitting on your right, on your right.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0080par0227	I said left for me. Now, people have supported you, they can give you, and they can give you, it's a separate job, but it's not a right that you and your President-General have given you all the support you want, and that you can spend every single one of these Parliament's Grand National Assembly of Turkey underfoot from time to time. I mean, it's so classic, and there's something everybody says, what do they say: "Republic, state, they're everywhere, there's power everywhere, but where's democracy?" It's where the opposition is.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0082par0229	We want good opposition.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0080par0230	But if your number of fingers in lawmaking is too compelling to silence, intimidate, suppress, restrict the rights of the opposition, there will be no democracy there; the events and events that none of us wants to replace the parliamentary system will take place. That's why Turkey has been through so much. I'm saying: I mean, for example, brother of the Prime Minister, this legislation and judgment are a liability to me. It's also a task that people give you. I want to understand the Prime Minister's nervousness, I don't understand. On every occasion, here's what you're saying, we'll go to the nation and you'll see that the people have chosen us. Well, you look good in the polls; good, okay. Then I don't understand the Prime Minister's tension. I'd advise him from here: don't be so nervous. He will set an example for Parliament in language and style...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0083par0233	He's not nervous.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0080par0234	Look, it just doesn't work. The first person to set an example of language and style is the Prime Minister, the head of the executive body. Because one of the most fundamental tasks of this Parliament, without a doubt, is to oversee this government, the government that sits here. We should be able to do that, and the MPs from the ruling party should be able to do it in peace. In this Parliament, we all have a shame to get rid of, Congressmans, and unfortunately, eight members of this Parliament are under arrest. We're dealing with an invisible event almost nowhere in the world. It's like this, it's like that, it's like that, it's like that, it's like that. There's no excuse for that in democracies. In this regard, as we enter the new era, I hope and hope that you will be able to understand that when you come to Parliament in October, September, whatever it is. Anyway, where you're going, you're going to see this in the polls, that's what the public is going to expect of you. If we don't solve these arrested MPs' shame, when our term is over, we'll either be reelected here or not, our necks will be bent. Congressmans, it is our right and the right to always ask the Prime Minister for this style: Hani, after every election, after every election, he goes out on the balcony and gives a speech.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0084par0238	He wins every election.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0080par0239	He's on the balcony and he's giving a speech, and now I'm saying, "I wish we could interpret the Prime Minister's balcony talks as April 1st, even though the elections are on April 1st, because even as the prime minister was talking on the balcony that night, we don't get uncomfortable, we don't lose the election, we don't get fattened." We can say, "The night we lose the most tense, but then we meet a different prime minister." That's how we vote against the group proposal, of course, but with your numerical majority. I wish the General Assembly the best of luck for the next two or three days. I'll see you, though, but I wish you all a good holiday and a good Ramadan. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0085par0244	Yes, thank you. In favor of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Hakan Sergeantoglu is the deputy of Bursa.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0086par0247	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. I have been promised to inform you of the content of our group proposal. Dear friends, with the group proposal that we've brought in, we're predicting a number of rows to be moved up, and we've set our meeting schedule. Dear friends, first of all, we will proceed to talks with the bill for amendments to some laws in 478 rows, following the first three-point bill and agreement on our agenda. After that, we will again discuss the Bill of Law on Privates and Private Laws, number 479. This includes a law amendment mentioned in the history of Turkish democracy, which has also changed Article 35 of the Turkish Armed Forces Interior Service Law. In that respect, there will be a new step towards our democracy, its expansion. You know, that's the only reason for illegal attempts at democracy, and the clause that was attributed to its legitimacy. In addition, we have international contracts regarding naval, continental shelf and shipping, which are urgent contracts that must be issued immediately. We're redesigning our work schedule, including Monday. With the valuable contributions of our opposition parties, I hope we can enjoy the excitement and joy of unifying the important changes that our society expects of us. I, again, salute you all. I wish all my friends the best in our work. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0087par0256	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Oktay Vural, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0088par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. The very valuable lawmakers, this group proposal from the AKP Group today, in fact, the unfortunately inferiority of parliamentary work, at the same time, a group of proposals that really mortgage the will of lawmakers in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and unfortunately, all the laws that we're going to discuss in your presence are about this much law. So, when these laws are taken care of... the esteemed lawmakers say today until the completion of this law. This law is 142 articles. There is a clause -- Article 73, which changes about 21 laws. When you calculate that, you just need thirty-six hours uninterrupted to discuss this law with the motions -- I'm leaving them and the others -- and they're predicting it to be finished today. Dear lawmakers, we need thirty-six hours, thirty-six hours to finish this law today. Hence, a series of proposals brought with such force, such as until it is completed, with an understanding that does not really consider the will of the MPs. When we consider all of this, in fact, what we're going to see today, the law that we're going to meet today is 142 articles; the law that is asked to be completed tomorrow is 43 articles, and then there are contracts. When all this is taken into account, in fact, as a result, we'll be working on the first week of the blessed Ramadan. As the National Movement Party, we have made it a priority in these legislations to protect our nation's rights, our law. Of course, here, I would like to present to you the election will be held on July 2nd when the AKP group's vice presidents come to us. After the election, we'll only discuss the bag of legislation, and we'll see nothing more than that. So, in front of you, unfortunately, I think these words remain in the air. I don't think these studies... In particular, this law, the only law we're going to meet today, has a change in 71 laws, 71 laws. Now, that's a lot of fellow commissioners. None of these commissions meet, only the Plan comes into the budget. What's with the expertise? Why did we put lawmakers on commissions? Let's just make a commission, a bag commission, and the law be the law, and let's make it a law once a year, put it in a bag, and let's get it over with. Such a study is truly illegal and I consider it disrespectful for lawmakers to exist here. Because, whether it's the lawmakers, whether it's those who agree or those who don't, whether it's the opposition or the motions, your deputy is on commissions, but unfortunately, these commissions are not discussed. I mean, there's a clause, Article 73, 16 pages. Citizens, 16 pages, 21 laws are being changed in 1 article. It's not really acceptable to have that kind of legislation that could lead to inferiority, but I'm thinking about what the presidency is doing, which means it's the presidency that has to control the commissions. Is that the way to negotiate the law, my dear friends? Indeed, we have made it very difficult for our MPs, especially our MPs, who are in various commissions, to include their expertise in this study. A dear friend just told me that economics and social areas have expectations. Look, I don't think we should call this law "torba," maybe "cuval" or maybe "subjected" or "subjected" law. But here, for example, under the special law, the contractors are not in this bag, there are no temps, there are no 4/CH people, there are no old people, there are no martyrs, there are no veterans, there are no disabled. The Lady Fatma Hawk brought the martyrs and veterans, so we thought we'd put them in the bag law, which, unfortunately, was spent on. There are no guides and expert teachers; there are no substitute midwifes and nurses; there are teachers, there are no hires; there are no teachers; there are no teachers; there are no teachers; there are no teachers; you've given the police a bonus; there are no police expectations; there are no pension problems; unfortunately, there are no police officers; there are no family health workers; there are no subcontractors; there are no public workers; there are no transfers; there are no police officers; there are no pensions; there are no major problems in the investigative staff; there are no forgivenesss; there are no government managers; there are no pardons; there are no pardons; there are no pardons. There's a problem with resen pensioners, and since they're really retired, they can't appeal to the court, so the disbursements of the AGE decisions have been solved, but there are no resen pensioners. So unfortunately, most of society is not involved in this law. In that respect, as the National Movement Party, we think that the way of this meeting is contrary to the purpose of being here for lawmakers to actually contribute, and that the negotiations on the commission are contrary to the talks in Parliament. It'll be finished today. We'll need 36 hours. The AKP -- with a law -- may be able to offer a proposal for 24 hours an hour and 48 hours a day, and that will be possible. I'm betting it won't end, and it won't. Let's go! Come on, I'll tell the AKP Group to come and finish it today, well done, well done. Let the friends who signed under it come and finish it, but you'll see, you won't be able to finish it; there's no way it's going to end, and they know it. However, the amendments to Article 35 of the Turkish Armed Forces Law, which is thought to be finished tomorrow, in particular after this, are a direct concession to the PKK to withdraw the Turkish Armed Forces from the internal security operation. Legally, I see the withdrawal of the Turkish Armed Forces from this floor as an issue that eliminates the integrity of national security. On such an important matter, I'm afraid... Dear MPs, you know, the National Security Council held a meeting on June 25th. At a meeting on June 25th, they have not made one decision about this, my dear friends, they have not made one decision; they have taken food safety, but there is no decision made by the National Security Council regarding their duties to the Turkish Armed Forces concerning internal security. Are these scarecrows? I mean, they're not considering such an important issue on the national security board. Moreover, the National Security Council has decided that these matters concerning national security must be evaluated on the National Security Council. But unfortunately, we see that the concessions to the PKK and the fact that the Turkish Armed Forces are legally tied up and that they can only intervene in the current social events through the governorates are directly locked up in police stations during this process. In this regard, changing this law in this way has nothing to do with democratisation, preventing coups. Together, if we all want to change... Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has one last message to the army on October 29, 1938, and this last message sums up what he actually says about the mission of the Turkish army: his duty to protect the Turkish country from all kinds of dangers... and domestic and external. So the Turkish Armed Forces have no other role than domestic and external dangers and no opportunity to intervene in politics, but we think it would be an important incentive for the Turkish Armed Forces to come together in this process in terms of concessions to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). In that respect, as the National Movement Party, we think it is highly wrong to discuss that law within this framework, within this phase, and also in Parliament. Let us all spend our laws together in a more qualified, more quality, and in accordance with the wishes and desires of our citizens. With the kind of will that you've come up with, with the contributions that we're going to make, that is, we're going to have a real problem with these kinds of reports that have been hormonized by the fact that their long working period, really uncertain laws, or the combination of proposals and proposals. In that respect, as the National Movement Party, in this working calendar, we express our opposition and our objections to this meeting schedule, since it is not possible to discuss such a law in accordance with the preordained procedures, and it does not provide an arrangement for the rights and obligations of important economic and social communities that we desire. In that respect, I would like to express my respect to all of you that we will vote against you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0089par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0088par0276	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0089par0277	I'll submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes, but I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0090par0282	Mr. President, you must include the members of the General Assembly in the number of decisions that are sufficient according to 146. If you look at 146, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0089par0283	Sir, there's a difference between the way you look from there and the way we look from here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0090par0284	No, there's enough decision-making in the group, but according to 146, you have to include the friends who are here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0089par0285	Apparently, you've worked hard for the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0091par0286	You can't ignore lawmakers in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit03spe0089par0288	Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the proposal has been accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0089par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, ranking 1st. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is appropriate. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Nığde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Plan and Budget Commission report on the amendment to some Law and Laws Act under the Law. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 478 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Now Mustafa Kalaycı, MP for the National Movement Party Group, has been asked to speak on top of the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0092par0026	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Party of Actions on the generality of Law Proposal 478. On this occasion, I salute you all. The Commission has not had a healthy and productive meeting on this proposal. Many articles have been added to the proposal, and many other substances have been issued. During the commission talks, an unknown attitude has been made regarding the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. This proposal of the law appears to be 76 major, 2 interim substances; in light of the bag, 140 original, 2 temporary substances. The proposal and 71 separate laws and laws shall be changed in the decree. Although there have been 142 articles of amendments to such a large number of laws and laws, it is very limited to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens, which will address their problems, except for one or two issues, which include discrimination and injustice, equality, justice, and rights. Recent reports of arrangements for public employees have kept public opinion busy. Officers and other public officials are concerned about where the arrangement will bring a change in their status and how it will affect their lives. However, this law proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, in this 142 - material arrangement, expectations have not been met, hopes have become disappointing. (x) 478 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The personnel regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. During the AKP's rule, many public services, which are essential and continuous, have been run by contractors of 4/B, under special law, under contract staff, 4/C (c) interim staff, proxy and paid staff, temporary and seasonal workers, subcontractors and subcontractors. In fact, Law 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ under contract and temporary personnel, exclusion of exceptions. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period were previously appointed to officers, but they were recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed. The fact that contracts are taken into office means that it is not right to employ contract personnel. Then why don't you put all the contractors on the staff, discriminate? Besides, why are you hiring new contractors on one side when you're hiring? With these obvious wrong practices, which the AKP mentality continues to provide political moisture, many victims have emerged. The biggest victim is our unemployed young people who are non-compulsive and are unable to find employment in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have failed to qualify for the central exam, who are unable to make the appointment, and whose staff is filled in exceptional ways before their turn comes. The government must stop this wrong, this injustice, immediately. Honourable lawmakers, with this proposal, are appointed to the civil servants of the People's Offices of 4/B (B) people, under the Law of 4924, under contract and under contract to work in the local administrations. It is seen as important for the contractors to be given a staff to ensure that different practices for those who do the same work are restored and that self-righteousness can be maintained. As the National Movement Party, we support hiring contractors. However, with this offer, the AKP's mentality still envisions what they know best - discrimination, injustice, and victimization. In the matter, the staff of gravel officers is foreseen. The province's private administration, along with its municipality and its subsidiaries, is taken into office by contractors working in local government units, but is organised that they will not be transferred to other public institutions or institutions. What kind of nonsense is that, Mr. Secretary? Is there a restraining order against the officer? Why is it that only local authorities are allowed to do that, if you're doing the right thing? This is extremely wrong. Such an arrangement violates the essence of Law 657, the principles of justice, and the principles of equality, and the Constitution. What are you going to do with legal excuses like his health, his wife's condition? In addition, there are no contracted personnel among the contracted staff who serve within the framework of special laws. Mr. Secretary, why don't you give the contract staff who serve under different regulations in public institutions and institutions? There's no good reason for that. Again, the request for appointment of university graduates, architects, engineers, technicians, workers' staffs, especially in the municipalities, has not been taken into account. As far as they're concerned, they must be assigned to the officer's staff. Why aren't contracted youth and sports experts recruited by the central exam and the foreign language exam, who have been on staff for 12 years? There have been no contracts left in the public office except for sports experts who have not been given a position on a civil exam. Mr. Secretary, why didn't you include counselors and master teachers in this arrangement? What's your motive? Unfortunately, there is discrimination between staffed employees and counselors who do the same work in the same environment. In this arrangement, there are no family health workers, no victims of 4/C. It is not acceptable to ignore the fact that the 4/C (C) people, whose total number is only around 23,000 and whose victim is the deepest living part, were not recruited. Mr. Secretary, aren't the contract holders and victims of 4/C not citizens of this country? Why don't you just ignore our friends, keep them apart, put them on the staff? We see that discrimination has gone up to the bones of the AKP mentality. Doesn't that make your double standard conscience ache? The cry of tens of thousands of contracted staff and the 4/C) men will ring in your ears for a lifetime, and the work of those whom you condemn to misery will not leave you in two Jihans. Remember, persecution does not dominate, persecution does not corrupt the outcome of the oppressors. In public, the work of unsecured, contractual, temporary, proxy, paid and part-time staff must end. Current employees must be recruited. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I'd like to bring to your attention another situation here: those who work at the Turkish Grand National Assembly are also victims of 4/C status and auxiliary services. What good is it to those who can't heal the victims of the workers who serve them? Our college graduates, even graduates, are employed by servants, waiters. The 4/C members who work in parliament must also be recruited, and the staff of the assistant service class must be assigned to the general management services class. Discrimination and injustices must be met. There is no arrangement for subcontractors in this proposal. During the AKP period, there were no areas where subcontractorization was not publicized. The subcontractors continue to work as slaves without human conditions, without job security, without union, without permission and overtime. The Minister of Labor has announced that there has been a study of subcontractors, but nothing has been done until now except to give them once in a while hope. Every day, their problems must be maintained, their working conditions and rights must be improved, by increasing subcontractors. Subcontractors employed in the government's original and continuous services must be assigned to the staff. Temporal and seasonal workers are also ignored. Before the 2007 elections, about 220 000 temporary workers were given a staff, but for years, temporary or seasonal workers, especially in sugar and tea factories, have not been recruited. Mr. Prime Minister, six years ago, I hope that we will be able to solve the problem of these brothers again. He said that this copyright has not been solved, but is still victimized. Temporarily and seasonal workers also have problems with their inability to retire. They do not have problems in terms of the year and age requirement for retirement, but they do not have long to complete the number of premium days sought. I'm asking the Minister, how many years can you retire with four months a year, six months a year? You must work for at least fifty years, seventy-five years. This problem must be resolved, and our friends should be given the opportunity to borrow money for periods of work that they cannot. In this offer, there are no old people in retirement. The amount of services required for retirement and the number of premiums are completed, but the loss of those on age terms is not met. In retirement, our elderly citizens ask that their victims be compensated. In retirement, age victims have tried to make their voices heard by their actions so far, and have gone on hunger strike. Mr. Secretary, don't you have any mercy, why don't you see those who live in retirement? Dear lawmakers, the proposal organises the appointment of those who serve for at least three months between May 4 May 2005 and 30 June 2013, as a teacher of Koran courses for deputy imam, deputy muezzin, and the presidential Koran courses, on the condition that they have a competency certificate as of June 18th to June 30th 2013. This arrangement still does not include many imams, proxy muezzin, and substitute Koran instructors. Many MPs are ignored, as noted in the article, for there is no certificate of competency, even if there is a certificate of memory, when there is an effort to cover people by writing special dates. On the one hand, the staff of those who have served one day has been cast out, while on the other hand, those who have served as deputies have been excluded for years. Mr. Secretary, why do you discriminate among the acting officers? How and why are those who do not have a certificate of competence entrusted to those who are not considered qualified in a sense for such lofty and important tasks? Are you underestimating imamism, muezzinism, Koran teaching? What are your criteria for reassignment? Do you have torpedoes and nepotism? In addition, the filling of the staff in this way means that the rights of many of theological institutes, theology institutes, or imam-gay upper secondary school graduates who have received a high degree in the central exam will be stripped of their rights while waiting to be appointed. Thus the servant is allowed to overcome the right. The AKP government has found its way to make it easy for itself: first appoint a substitute and then give them a staff by making law. Mr. Secretary, don't give people the benefit of the doubt. Unquestionably, it is not lawful for you that those who wait for the appointment and the appointment should be given to them. The regency must be subject to extreme circumstances. The staff needs to be met with the installations to be taken through the central exam. A more sensitive and just and righteous government must be displayed in the religious organization than any other institution. The suspicion of injustice and kindness should not be challenged. This arrangement is unfair and discriminated against surrogate nurses. The subservient midwife-sisters were recruited into a 4/B contract staff in 2011, but the right is well-known to those who meet the requirements for an uninterrupted year's work. In addition to those who do not have this requirement, there are still around a thousand surrogate nurses working with those who were later taken. Why don't you hire the surrogate nurse? The deputy imam, Muezzin and Qur'an course instructors are appointed as officers, while the right to not be granted this right is not in line with rights, it is in violation of the principles of justice and equality. There are no paid teachers or teachers in this bill. If the Regents are given a staff, teachers who are paid must also benefit from it. The Ministry of National Education is getting paid teachers to fill open quotas. While teachers waiting for hundreds of thousands of appointments are waiting with hope, the teacher's deficit is satisfied with paid teachers. The required staff must be provided by teachers waiting to appoint teachers. Teachers have been poored during the AKP period, among the public employees receiving the lowest wage. Our teachers' monthly and additional course fees are not enough to lead a human life. Teachers who find it difficult to earn a living while working are condemned to poverty in retirement. If we want to get our country back on its feet, put it in a position of strength and order, we must surely end the problems of education and teaching and the problems of our teachers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we don't have the police in this arrangement. Mr. Secretary, why don't you give our police 3,600 additional indicators? Our law enforcement officers, all of whom are well-trained, want 3,600 additional indicators rightfully based on their precedents. Why hasn't the Prime Minister's promise of police rights been fulfilled six years ago? The police are afraid of retiring because when he retires, his salary is cut in half. That's why he's being forced to work up to his age. Our retired policemen are also suffering from severe income. The rights of the police must be improved. There are almost no victims among public employees. We can't end by counting discrimination and unjust practices by the AKP government. As a result of recent regulations, there is no logical explanation for the importance of the duties of staff members in public institutions such as chiefs, branch managers, county managers, even though their weight, responsibility has increased, and their financial rights have been reduced. In the Ministry of Health, branch managers, vice principals and vice-presidents of the hospital have been appointed to the investigative staff under the Code 663. Therefore, as a result of their rights, they suffered great losses and were victimized. However, in other ministries, employees of similar titles have been assigned to special staffs and their rights are protected. These segregating practices must be terminated. Today, the staff of engineers is paid lower than the workers who work for them. Public defenders are far behind in their rights, as well as in their former careers. Public workers need to be transferred from one public institution to another for reasons of health or other. However, public workers, like other public employees, cannot be assigned to other public institutions and institutions. This leads to inequality among public employees. There must be a solution to the problems of public workers about transplanting. Mr. Secretary, when are you going to stop a thousand forms of discrimination and injustice between public employees? Do the victims not bother your conscience at all? We don't have chiefs on this bill. There's almost no one left who doesn't promise the Mukhtars that their rights will be improved. In fact, government spokesman Bkent Arinc, who said that important rights were being given to the muhtars, said, "I think if I retire, I might run for mayor in a village." Months have passed since his description, and years of promises have not been made, and our chiefs have always been deceived. There is no regulation in this proposal for martyr families, veterans, disabled and elderly people. There are many problems with the families of the martyrs and our veterans and our invalids. Although they were promised positive discrimination, large possibilities were offered, they were not fulfilled. I've also called on our parties and you in my non-responsibility speech today about the problems of our fallen families and veterans. Mr. President, Mr. Government, the valued members of our party's group, the esteemed MPs, I repeat my call. It'll take a couple of days to negotiate this bag of law anyway. Let's go next door as lawmakers for our party groups. Let's get the martyr families, veterans, invalids, old people and disabled people involved in the government's bill of a hundred and two-point bag of legislation, and we'll get them into this bag of motions that we've discussed. There's, like, 20 to 30 items. Let's do that if we agree to a little amendment to one or two of our relevant associations. Let's include it in this bag. I wish your proposal of the law would be a blessing. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0093par0064	Thank you. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP, who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0094par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party over the entire bag bill. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to start by asking you a simple but complicated math question. When this bill first came to the Commission, 46 articles were transferred to the subcommittee, six articles removed, 19 added, and one temporary clause added, 59+1. He came to the top commission, but he came out 76+2 on the top commission. How many clauses were added to the top commission? You can find a simple calculation. 27 articles were made in the top commission, in the middle of the debate, in a hurry, in a hurry, in a hurry, in an effort to make proposals, in motions. We're now in discussion as 76+2. We'll discuss it for two days, three days, possibly 100 or so, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will legalise this bill or this proposal. Now, can such a method of law offer be healthy, fit for law enforcement? I'm not saying, Mr. Minister himself, the Minister of Labor himself says: "Yes, this law technique is not a suitable technique." I mean, making a bag of laws is not a proper law technique, it's not a method, it's necessary to give up. Well, why do you insist on it? You're putting Turkey's legal system in an unreliable position, especially in terms of foreign investors, with this law proposal, because of this bag of laws technique. And I'm not saying that, Mr. Minister of Justice TUSIAD has expressed it at the High Council of Appeals meeting; it's not my statements, I'm talking government officials, cabinet members. Why do you insist? Look, I'll give you an example of just one clause: The 73, you're making a change in 19 laws with a decree of 12 laws. Let me count 375, 666, 633, 635, 639, 664, 645, 644, all of this...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0095par0070	You don't have enough time.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0094par0071	Are you bored? We've got a lot of time, 76 points, 76 motions, 76 tortures you in 5 episodes, all of which I'll go out and talk to you, all of which I'll tell you the same thing, you'll see what it's like to torture. You'll see how to torture. I wouldn't pick on him if I were you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0096par0072	What's the point?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0094par0073	Mr. Demiröz, you had an offer in this article with your signature on it; you remember, we asked you during the Commission, I have no news." You said. Now, so don't make me talk, it's the last days of the House...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0097par0075	No, Mr. Zozani, speak, speak.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0094par0076	If you're not satisfied, Mr. President, I'll continue my conversation. Now, there are commitments, such as subcommittee commissions, those subcommittees are actually set up to work on the method of reconciliation, but in the subcommittee work on this issue, government members -- members of the ruling party -- did not abide by their commitments. Many articles will be changed. They said, they promised, and when they brought them to the top commission, they read exactly what they knew, and they passed. Why are you being so insincere? Why aren't you being sincere? Why are you questioning our sincerity when we say......? E, it's practical. A group of vice presidents of the ruling party have just said, "The mirror of the party is business. Well, about that, we're really going back to that. That's an understatement, yeah. You've damaged the environment of trust, spread insecurity in the working environment. For example, one of these arrangements was related to the victims of February 28th. We said, "Yes, as members of opposition parties, let's set up an arrangement that will restore the reputation of everyone and everyone who has ever been the victim of a coup in Turkey. Let's not be limited to February 28th. Because if you keep it limited to February 28th, it will only be read as a rematch effort, which we perceive as a salutation to your choice. Let's get out of here, let's get out of here -- May 27, March 12th, September 12th, April 27th -- no matter how many coups there have been, no matter how many postmodern blows there have been, let's bring an arrangement that will be returned to all of them. They said, "All right, let's work on this." They said, "We'll prepare for the top commission." It's called, the ruling party members have done exactly what they know in the upper commission. Because if they had, as we call it, then they wouldn't have a chance to use it as election propaganda material. We took the rematch of February 28th alone, and look, we returned them to their duties. So, I want to give you a number that says that the arrangement here is not a practical response. Suppose on February 28, 1997, a Petty Officer who was victimized by those decisions was suspended, confiscated, wronged, victimized at that time. How long has it been? It's been 16 years. In 16 years, if this person had stayed in office until today -- you can't stop time -- and every two years -- the TSK Internal Service Act says so -- if you thought that they were promoted, these people would at least be Petty Officer Senior Sergeant, even if they didn't retire today. On what criteria are you going to extradite this person today, or return the mission to him? I'll give you another example: After the coup of February 28th, after 16 years passed, during which time, if he had remained in the military, he would have had the chance to be Chief of General Staff today or at least retire with the rank of Ormenal, but he was victimized there, removed from the army. Now, you're saying: "How will you bring it back to equal duty?" Why don't you bring him back in 16 years, make him a captain or a sergeant sergeant? So we're saying there's no practical response to the legal arrangement. However, the arrangement we're making here has a symbolic meaning for extradition, and it is possible for these people to return their dignity. Oh, well, since we're only going to return the reputations of the victims of the coup, let's not limit it to February 28th, it's possible to apply it to all the victims of the coup. The arrangement we're talking about is nothing more than a reckoning. There is a change in Law 2022, and instead of the times, there is an arrangement to produce only the plural crop. Instead of doing this, what would happen if you brought it, looked at the money you paid our elders, our people who needed help, and raised the money you paid? Do you know how much money is paid by the Foundation for the Foundation and Social Welfare Foundation for people who are 65 years old and in need of help in Turkey? 125 lira. You pay 125 lira, and instead of giving it every month, it's a shame, instead of taking that old person to the front of the bank or to the welfare agency every month, you say: "Come every three months, you get a little bit more money." Every three months, you give these people $375. Another arrangement has now been officially asked to be censored by the Historical Society, with arrangements being made here. The Historical Society is being censored. You're telling the historical institution that has written the official history of Turkey: you can't keep records on the national defence and national security of the state, you can't ask for information. What do you mean? The implementations of the General Staff are no longer under historical control; they will not be written; they will not be given information if they want information. The institute of higher education is, the ministries are, the presidency is, the prime minister is, the practices are all censored. A change in Article 73 is being introduced to the historical institution. When we were transparent, and we were democratic, and we were talking about clarity, where is clarity, where is transparency? This is clarity, transparency; so much clarity, so much transparency. The arrangement for 4/B is one of the tangible arrangements, but when you bring it in, you nail people to where they are now, and you don't allow them to go anywhere else for the rest of their lives. So, how do you increase a person's efficiency, performance? If someone takes office in a county municipality today, you'll stay there for the rest of your life. Where's the right to say, where's the law? On what grounds are you doing this? Put that aside, you're making arrangements for 96,500 people, so why don't you add the remaining 23,500? And we've just been talking about 4/C. Why don't you just focus on that? Plus, on the basis of Law 5620, why do you exclude employees from this arrangement, even though they all have the qualifications of Article 48? Isn't that unfair? The day after tomorrow, these people will go to court, and they will expose this mistake, and people will seek their rights. Why are you doing this wrong? Why don't you give these people their earned rights? If you're bringing in the arrangements, bring in the integrity. Why would people go to court? Three months later, they were again victimized at work. We have to make an arrangement to address this sacrifice. There will be a new clause to be discussed. Dear friends, especially my friends from the AK PARTY, the Prime Minister doesn't know or misinformation about your law-working technique, someone should really tell him that. In the amendment that was made three months ago, they say they've come through commissions, passed through the General Assembly, published in the Official Gazette, the same lawmakers, sorry, we've done wrong, we need correction. Someone has to tell the Prime Minister that. No, that's a working system, that's a law-making technique. On what grounds are you changing the law you passed three months ago today? With this offer, for example, we've been working on it yesterday, a law that was passed a year ago, occupational security specialists. You may not be able to work at your workplace for another year. What kind of arrangement is that? Why? They're bringing a big lie: no, we haven't trained enough experts in Turkey, we have to postpone it for another year. We argued, and it turned out that there were enough job safety and health experts in Turkey, but because employers refused to work at the price they wanted, they were based on more experts and the policy of expanding the field of labour exploitation. There's one more thing. For example, how many people get one doctor in Turkey? There are 1.4 doctors per thousand in Turkey, and I'm talking about a high-profile job. What's the OECD average? 2.9. Turkey is the last in the OECD ranking. How many religious officials do we have in Turkey? One religious officer for 600 people. 2,100 more staff are being increased as if it's too much to ask. Well, why don't you think about the teachers? Bring it in, we'll call it a yes to this arrangement. In the same way, we'd like to propose that the faculty graduates be put on the staff -- we're going to recommend -- in this case -- in the same case, let's put the faculty graduates on the staff. Are you up for that? We say it in front of all the public, we offer it to you. We say yes to your arrangement with the clergy. In the same situation, let's put teachers, faculty graduates on the staff, we offer, we'll bring this in. Dear friends, there's more to be said about this, this bag of talk, and as soon as we're done talking, we'll see each other at least 70 more times. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0098par0091	Thank you. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0099par0094	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Law Proposal, the Bill. I salute you all. My dear friends, the year of law should have ended according to the written decree of the Constitution on July 1st, but we suddenly see that when the AKP (the 11-year habit) comes to the end of June, it has a habit of carrying out a business with its bureaucrats in the name of such a bag of laws, carrying them on the agenda of Parliament, and spending them in the eye of eyes. It's not the law, it's not the bag, it's the sack, it's the matrushkas, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law. My friend just stated, this is 46 when he came to the subcommittee on June 18th. Six items were removed, 19 items added and 59, then 76. Now I see that the ruling majority will be able to rely on its majority, to increase the number of substances 76 to 100, with its motions and new provisions. Now, dear friends, I've written the same laws as Mr. Zozani, who just spoke, and I've drawn on this book, and it's really just the 73, the 19, the 12 amendments to the ordinance. In total, 75 laws or laws are being changed in a total of 76 articles of law, except for what they'll give you. Dear friends, for one thing, first of all, it's absurd to have friends present this proposal as an offer to the law. It's the state of the AKP Group that doesn't have more serious bags and sacks than he does. Look, they're offering the AKP Group an offer, a bill that changes 75 laws, not 75 people, but 15 people from the AKP. I present to you the attention of the public. Dear friends, really, when we discuss this proposal, tell the lawmakers -- you signed an offer on the subcommittee as well as on the main commission -- about this clause in the law proposal. When we say, "I'm sorry, he's looking at the lawyer's face." The bureaucrat will say something, he'll pass it on to us. The law has proposed, so-called, he doesn't know what he's offering.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0100par0100	It's the Minister of the Forest.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0099par0101	Yeah, that's a bummer, too. Indeed, this bill, its bill, whatever you may call it, demonstrates the lack of faith, the shyness of the Minister, the embarrassment. He can't come in as the owner, he sends another minister, but he makes a statement when he doesn't show up. We'll solve their staff problem wide in Ramadan because the 4/C"s raised their voice. No such thing is not on their agenda because there is no work on AKP's agenda, no workers, no officers, no tradesmen, no pensioners, no job. What? Trader politics. What? There's a law in the eye and there's a co-forgiving, like the change in the Agricultural Law here, or as it's intended to be done in publicisation.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0101par0103	85,000 farmers become allies now?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0099par0104	If the Agricultural Minister of 85,000 farmers came here and explained...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0102par0105	It's always the con men, the con men! Who are you protecting, you!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0101par0106	Brother Mevlüt, it's rude.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0102par0107	They cheated!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0103par0108	...if he explains what he wants to do in Diyarbakir, the public will also know.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0101par0109	It's a shame.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0102par0110	It's not shameful.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0103par0111	Mr. President, I want my time.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0101par0112	If there's a con man in there, we've ruled them out.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0104par0113	Is it a scam?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0103par0114	Now, dear friends, yes...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0101par0115	There's a ban on frauds, forbidden, forbidden!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0104par0116	Enough, don't judge farmers to cheat!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0103par0117	Mr. Barber, you're still in your habit of the Commission here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0105par0118	Mr. Barber, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0104par0119	I mean, it's not like there's a law against scamming farmers. Don't use us as a tool.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0103par0120	Mr. President, step in to Berber, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0105par0121	I do, sir. Mr. Barber, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0106par0123	Tell me what's for farmers.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0107par0124	Don't use us, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0105par0125	Mr. Cetin, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0108par0126	Now, my dear friends, the bill is being negotiated by the Plan and Budget Commission. So I've just told you, in total, 54, 55 are changing the law, 20 are changing the law, only the Plan and Budget Commission. What's with all the interviews? We started Thursday at eleven o'clock in the morning, until seven the next morning, an inhuman operation. The House is a law-making body that will abide by its laws. Before that, there was a decree on working in extraordinary situations in Job Law 1475, which, even during the war, the Council of Ministers ruled that a person should work for more than 11 hours. Now, we're twenty-two hours straight... some of us are asleep, some of us are wandering, yawning; e, we're making the law. No good comes from that law, no good comes from the AKP, no good comes from the people, no good to the workers, no good to the officials, no good to the ministers, who offer it as an offer. For one thing, everyone should know that a mindset that doesn't comply with the lawmaking technique, who doesn't listen to the relevant parts, whose commissions are ruled by the Constitutional Budget Commission, of course, but who ignores the commissions established by parliament has nothing to do with democracy at all. Dear friends, really, when you look at the proposal, it's soup. So you take a look at the materials, there's no way you can get out of the materials, we're changing almost every law, we're changing 75 laws or laws. Controversies for its preparation have appeared in the first, first, first article. A provision was made in the ORKÖY, especially in the forest village where forest villagers lived for at least a year without taking advantage of ORCU loans. We asked the Department of Forestry bureaucrat, and he said, "We don't have that kind of offer." We've looked into it, and there's another subject of the same nature in the Agricultural Forest Commission. Well, we took it off... We're discussing the 5th, 6th articles. We're here, the conflict between the Head of Religious Affairs and the Government. The Ministry of Religious Affairs says: "This is not how we want these materials to be changed." The government says: "We will change it." What are they changing? Dear friends, the President of Religious Affairs is an institution that has the largest share of the Turkish Republic budget, with the largest budget, after almost four ministries. Really, a religious institution, a religious institution, everyone needs to be protected. Now, we're looking, the additional facilities of mosques, mosques, or other establishments that are connected to the Religious Works are an arrangement that can be rented for commercial purposes or transferred to others. Religion says we don't want it. The government says: "This is what we're going to do. You're looking at another arrangement, where more than 100,000 teachers are waiting for the nomination. Hundreds of thousands of candidates have taken the KPSS exam, young people are waiting for a job as a civil servant. What are we doing with this bill? It is as if the officers who win with KPSS are not our allies, and if they are appointed to one office, they may not serve us because they are the other. What do we do? Let's use the Dianet Jobs as a fronting institution, deputy imam, proxy muezzin, proxy trustee, teacher of Koran courses without any recruitment or restrictions. (References, sins, at least not to use the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Mr. Prime Minister; at least don't undermine the institution that the nation respects because of its faith, so you have no right to do so. The teacher of the Koran course in the Ministry of Religious Affairs is, of course, a citizen of this country, but even within them, right now, look, the officials, imams, muezzins, are all over the place. There are some in them who don't think so much! It's a contradiction. On the other hand, when you actually look at it, you'll see that the ruling, especially the commercial use of the mosques and mosques that I've just stated, was also on the agenda in the arrangement of alcohol that was discussed in this House a month and a half ago. What changed a month later and was brought back? So, this was fixed on the commission, but now it's being brought up again. Dear friends, once again, in Article 9 of Article 657, employees are given a position under contract according to Act 4/B of State Officers' Law 4/B. Yeah, well, we've split up the officers, all the employees, and now we're going to solve it in part, even if it's a bond. What kind of solution? ▪ We only solve 4/B people. Not all of the 4/B people - 23,000 people in the local administrations, 4/B people, 72,500 people in the medical staff, 772 people in the staff. See, today, a citizen of 4/C has committed suicide -- Mehmet Cerenoğlu -- is dying in Beykoz State Hospital; he is from Beşokoz State Hospital; he is from Beşkoz State Hospital, where he committed suicide because he was not able to look his children in the face. Mr. Secretary, make a note of that. They're keeping you busy there. Dear friends, in addition to this, the living hangers. Unfortunately, four more people today began hungering in the park in the medical community, after the 1999 law was passed, where they were encouraged or forced to retire by the AKP's laws and forced to raise that army, because they were not able to receive wages. Dear friends, these have not really been taken into account. Yeah, we're a law enforcement agency, we're in Parliament. It was the AKP who lived on the 4/C" work model in parliament. We elected the Speaker yesterday; I call on the Speaker. Aren't you ashamed, Mr. President, to discriminate among the members of Parliament who do the same work? Solve this problem as soon as you're eating in a restaurant in the House, walking around the garden, please save us. Please hear the voices of those who say, "Mr. President." Dear friends, on the other hand, the actual staff regime in our country is not a problem that can be solved with such an additive. I'm the Chief of State Staff and to the senior bureaucrats of the Ministry of Labor, please inform the politicians correctly. You're looking at workers -- contractual, short-term employees, part-time employees -- you've been living every one of the flexible working models, you've brought in rent labor, you've brought in the slave system. You see, you make a special law of working for all institutions. Such a working model has never existed in the Republic of Turkey, and you are now trying to live. It's shameful, it's sinful. I'm calling from here to employees, laborers and civil servants, non-organized workers, non-organized people: stand up for your rights, raise your voice for your rights. If the unions don't take care of you, find a way to tell the MPs at the Grand National Assembly, no one can hear you. Dear friends, another issue, one of the important issues, such as matrushka, is an arrangement for the Traffic Law of Highways. You look at the 17th article in it, and it's really good, and the licenses will change, and the drivers will not receive the allowance. Oh, free change, that's good. So we said, OK. We passed it on the 17th or 18th article. Well, the next thing we know, it's not just tuition, it's valuable paper money, it's 101 lira. The driver's licenses of 24 million citizens will be changed. Each one of them will not pay the tuition. We said, "But what will he give?" Valuable paper money, 101 lira. I mean, 2.5 quadrillion liras from the citizen -- maybe he has a driver's license, maybe he has a driver's license, but he's poor -- we'll get it out of his pocket. What are we gonna do? We'll find a new source on our way to the election. Dear friends, one of the harshest substances in this law is the fact that the AKP (AKP) who has brought up the victims of February 28th at all times ignores the other victims of the coup. It's not just February 28th. It's the victims. Yes, if there's a victim, it has to be removed. It's been fixed many times, but it's about seeing the other victims. On March 12th, 12th of September, in this country, there was no more torture, no more torture, no more torture that the revolutionaries, democrats, patriots, and intellectuals had not seen; there was a special law of 1402, which was issued during martial law, and those who were deemed in trouble, and those who could not receive security reports, were expelled from their workplaces without question, and starved. There are victims of a security investigation, not just 1402. After that, after the victims of the security investigation, there are military victims of military coups. Yes, we've made motions to address all these sacrifices, so let's add them. What did you do? We've changed it in the subcommittee, but you've chosen a way to continue your 11-year-old victim literature as if there were only victims in February 28th. If the AKP really doesn't want to divide the country, if it doesn't want to discriminate between citizens, I think it will contribute with the victims of February 28th to arrange and recommend other victims' injustices. Another important issue, dear friends, is that until this period, until the AKP period, when a institution such as the OSD has done some work, it still continues to see that students in the university want to employ them as apprentices under 16 years of age to exploit their poverty, to exploit their poverty, to exploit their hardship, to make them work, and to define them as workers. The head of an institution such as NGO, and the minister who accepted that offer, should be ashamed, and you must work and not call them workers. You're the government, you're the inter-college test agency, you're gonna hire uninsured people. If not today, then one day, no one has the right, dear friends. Another regulation: You see, the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Act came out these days last year, came into effect, and the date was postponed to 1/1/2013. It's been six months, and we see that you've given in to the pressure of employers once again. For a simple reason, sir, we don't have enough business inspectors, we don't have enough supervisors, let's postpone the execution of them. First it shows death, he tries to postpone it for two years, four years, then, he's smart, the rest of them -- like, stupid, let's cut it down to half, let's settle for the disease... Dear friends, here is a fine example of the laws you've made, made without thinking, without talking, without arguing. So you're making a law, six months ago, and you can't make it work, so let's change the bride... we're trying to change it, the Minister isn't coming. Let's change, Minister, come and convince us... that he's sending the Minister of the Forest. I mean, there's really no owner here. Such a big, comprehensive law, there is no Minister. Dear friends, I want to say on the whole: How can a law that changes 75 different laws be the basic law? How does this relate to the Constitution, making legislation? Is the constitutional professors going to tell me, the Speaker or the Vice President? I don't see how I could've figured out the logic of calling this a freaking law proposition the basic law. I don't understand how you guys are smart, how you describe the basic law. Dear friends, wherever you look, this law is the final link of AKP's methods in the country's administration over the past 11 years. There is no way to say yes to such a law. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit04spe0109par0148	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0109par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Müslim Sarı, who asked for a word on his behalf. Mr. Yellow, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0110par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, of course, it's hard to talk in empty rows, but...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0111par0008	We're here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0112par0009	Mr. Yellow, you've just arrived. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0113par0011	Now, when I'm discussing this bag of laws, I always think of something that's been discovered in the 19th century in political science, especially as a sociological concept, that concept is alienation. In the political struggle of the working class, the process of alienating the labor and labor of the working class was presented by Karl Marx in the 19th century to the terminology of political science and sociology. That's exactly what you say: you go through an alienation process. This process of alienation begins with the alienation of human labor. It's alienated by what you first produce because you can't see the entire production process, you can't see all the products produced, you don't know the meaning of the product produced. The process of production and production of products has become so complex that man has begun to alienate the product of his labor. After a while, a stranger to the product of his work begins to become a stranger to his own work, a stranger to his own work, a stranger to himself, a stranger to his own kind, and so on. Now, I always remember that when I was discussing this bag of laws. When it comes to drafting a law that changes so many laws, so many laws that are not so much related to each other, when it comes to drafting these laws, I always consider the parliamentarians who raise their hand and lower their hand to be a stranger to their own work. I always think it's a process like this when you're so accurate that you don't know the content of the law that he raises his hand and approves. Imagine, there's a bill or a proposal -- both united -- changing the decree in some 75 laws or laws, and none of that has anything to do with it. When you first come to the subcommittee, the offer consists of 46 articles, then the subcommittee goes up to 59, the commission goes up to 76, now we don't know how many articles it's going to go up to in the General Assembly phase, which is open to us.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0114par0015	140, 140.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0113par0016	It could get bigger, it could get bigger. I mean, imagine a law that's made up of 17 pages. Even one clause changes the rules of 31 laws and laws. There's almost no letters left in the alphabet to edit, to define, to categorize the substrates of that material. It is known to all of us in the subcommittee work, in the top commission work, in which the bidders are unaware of the content of the proposal. We've all seen with our own eyes that the bidders often look at bureaucrats and need to be approved by bureaucrats of what they say. It's such a sloppy law-making technique that we've come across that there's a motive, there's a reason, but the reason is not in the legal clause. Or a law clause was brought in for an arrangement, but the same regulation is included in a law that is now on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or has been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So it's such a sloppy, devoid of so much content, that such an interesting arrangement is a process of alienation to the work of the government, the ruling party parliamentarians, the work of all the Parliament that is here, the work of its own labor, after a while, to yourself, to the society that it lives in after a while. In fact, what we've done here with the legal regulations is that this bag of laws has brought Turkey's sociology. There are interesting elements of the law, and I won't be able to address them all in ten minutes, but I'd like to tell you my thoughts on a few arrangements: In recent bags of legislation, we see constant arrangements for religion are being made, both in the organization's law and in other forms of dialogue. It's clear that the government has a special interest in Dianet and claims to organize this place, but we're not talking about problems that are more general about Dianet, the problems that are more macro, the problems that fit the facts of Turkey; we're turning around, ignoring them, covering them, but we're choosing to deal with more palliative, smaller, micro-problems, and we're bringing them into almost every legal arrangement, including every bag arrangement, but we don't know if the members of the ruling party are ever questioning this, at least in their conscience. We are not arguing that an institution founded on the tax of all citizens in Turkey, such as the Diabetes Work, which is funded by the tax of citizens to provide them with religious service, is being used in accordance with the opinions of a sect or even a sect, according to its religious understanding and its beliefs. In this country, we are not making any attempt to ensure that an institution that has to perform religious services for non-Muslim citizens or those who are members of a sect outside the Sunnilik sect will be granted that privilege. When we talk to our friends one by one, you're right, that's the way it should be. You say that, but when it comes time to make an arrangement about it, you don't move a muscle. You've organized studies about it, for example, you've argued over it for years. And here's the Minister, who ran those workshops, if I remember correctly. Citizens' wishes are clear, their demands are clear. There's no need to make long-dimensional workshops for these things, but you're not fulfilling the results of these studies or ignoring the demands there. So, what needs to be done is that the legal status of the President of Religious Affairs is to be debated, to be put into the framework of equal, constitutional citizenship, which can provide religious service to everyone in Turkey, but we are not discussing it. Then, the 9th article is another interesting substance. It's a clause added by the government to an arrangement, as if it were a government bill. With this clause, 96,505 contract employees -- who are in local administrations or in central administrations -- are to be recruited. It's a beautiful arrangement, but it's as incomplete as it is a good arrangement. What needs to be done is that an arrangement, such as CSI personnel, institutional staff, even 4/C -- all of which are 23,000 people -- is to be put in line with the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Again, in the same way, it is the immediate dismissal of public subcontractorization. In the conditions of the 21st century, subcontractors or subcontractors are never acceptable to be done by the public institution, by the state's hand, and the arrangements for this should be brought in the coming process. The timing of this arrangement also makes sense. Such a step before local elections certainly raises some doubts. Again, Article 43 is important. Other speakers who spoke before me also mentioned this. It's actually a restitution arrangement for reassignment of those who have been discharged from office due to disciplinary action before February 28, 1997. We object to the involvement of this arrangement because the victims, along with the February 28th process, are not the only victims in Turkey; they need to be taken further back, a process beginning in 1971, and we care about the return of the dignity of the victims in all these processes. At the same time, we also care that this should be handled in terms of military personnel, not only in connection with the Law of State Officers No. 657. There's a lot more to be said for this law, no doubt. It's a law of over 100 and 144 articles. There are suggestions on every clause, and there are words to be said in suggestions on every clause. I've tried to make a few important points in this general frame of mind, and I'm saying again, as the latest statement, that the AKP governments have recently imposed on Parliament, certainly and certainly open the process of alienating themselves through their labors, through their labors, through their own communities. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0115par0027	Thank you. Ahmet Orphankaya, Kayseri MP, who has asked for a word on the entire proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0116par0029	The commission is empty, Mr. President. He can't talk, there's no one on the committee.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0115par0030	It's filling up, sir. [[Commissioner Kayseri MP Ahmet Ekyzıkaya has replaced Commissioner Bursa MP Hüseyin Şahin]] Here you go, Mr. Orphanage.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0117par0033	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 478-row Law Proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. In these days, when we completed the 2nd year of the 24th term, they began their talks today due to the need for amendments to some laws and laws referred to as laws. I wish this offer to bring blessings to our society, to our country. I'd like to brief you on the changes made by this proposal. This has been agreed that the amendment to the Industrial Register Law will not pay administrative fines as soon as they start operating on the basis of registration of businesses that are not registered in the industrial register. Again, an arrangement that envisions heavy punishments for crimes related to illegal betting due to the lack of proper sanctions. A clause that gives the BDDK authority and responsibility has been added. Again, it is part of our proposal for a religious arrangement. National media has been accepted as an arrangement concerning broadcast organs that prevents the word "Dianet" from being used unfairly on their websites. In addition, it has been established that parts of the mosque, masjid and Quran courses, which are located above public housing, can be operated, operated, or rented by the Chairman of Religious Affairs. Again, the deputy imam, the deputy muezzin, has been made an arrangement that will ensure that those who teach as trustees in the Koran courses of the trustee and the President of the Religious Affairs will be appointed without any restrictions on the staff concerned if they apply within three months. A regulation on social security inspectors has been envisioned to improve the rights of the assistant inspectors. It has been adopted by adding a copy of the proposal, allowing those serving in the field of control to benefit from the provisions of the Law on the Excise, which are subject to other professions. Another clause, in accordance with the European Union's acquisitor, has been able to ensure that the driver's license classes can be established without mention in the law. Again, it has been agreed that the driver's licenses provided by the Security Directorate or traffic registration agencies, provided that the driver's license is suspended without the conditions for receiving a driver's license, and that the driver's license is convicted of drug use and possession and similar crimes, should be confiscated from his criminal record. An arrangement for road-trip traffic tickets is again part of our proposal. The proposal allowed administrative fines written on foreign license plates to be paid without arriving at customs doors. Again, it is part of our proposal for a formalisation. After being used in accordance with the purpose of publicisation, it has been made possible that a provision of the ruling on the failure to demand a price or a price or compensation of the former assets, which should be evaluated in other ways, would be included in the proposal of an arrangement that has already been carried out in cases that have not yet been finalised. Again, it is part of our proposal for a substance that concerns our businessmen, which organises the exception of VAT and institutional tax. An arrangement has been made to ensure that the property of the subsidiaries, which the financial rental companies personally bought and leased back from the tenant, will be sold to the tenant at the end of the contract period, and will be excluded from the value-appropriation tax for the sellers and financial rental companies due to the sale of financial rental companies, and the proceeds due to the sale of subsidiaries by the subsidiaries of the subsidiaries. Again, an arrangement of the Federal Reserve. In the same way as the Central Bank's ability to determine the maximum rate of tardiness on individual credit cards, it has also been authorized to determine the maximum in terms of corporate credit cards given to traders and the rate of tardiness. Farm support payments. This has been subject to reviewing the documents he acquired after giving his products to the merchant on condition that he becomes a true manufacturer, and some of the documents that were rejected are allowed to be paid once in a row for agricultural product support. During February 28th, there is an arrangement regarding people who were discharged from office. This arrangement aims to repair the victims by making an arrangement that allows them to be reinstated, provided they carry the necessary conditions. An arrangement has been made to delay the implementation of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, which has changed the provision of the Law on Health and Safety, on June 1, 2014, June 30, 2014 and June 30, 2016, since it is not ready for workplaces and public institutions. A minimum number of board members on public partnerships have been made possible to appoint a residence for the board of directors, which will be sufficient to serve until new members are elected to replace the Capital Market Board if certain conditions are not met on the board of directors. The Power Market Law has adopted an arrangement to be licensed by the board for license application for wind energy-based production activities, but the application for a license was intended to speed up wind energy investments, given the right to apply for a month's notice to those who have been rejected because they failed to meet their obligations. As for the proposal, which was added during the top commission talks. The Act of State Officers No. 657 has been added to Article 41, and has been allowed to be assigned to the staff of contracting employees at public institutions 25/6/2013, as well as to health staff and private administration of the municipality and its subsidiaries. It will also be assessed after the registration of the land for the Treasury, which has changed from village to neighborhood due to the establishment of urban municipalities, but has not changed its rural quality. Those who have a lower-class work safety certificate for job safety experts who are needed in upper classes have been granted the maximum of two exams, provided they are used within a year to obtain a certificate of occupational safety in upper classes. I'd like to thank my fellow commissioners for all their contributions to this proposal, the Plan and Budget Commission that we're working with. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0118par0054	Thank you. Now, according to Article 72 of the Civil Code, there is a motion to continue the talks, and I am reading the motion: We propose that all negotiations of the bill be carried out according to the Civil Code 72. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Alim Light I'm having it read. This freak who envisions a change in the 71 law must continue negotiations to make a better assessment of the law proposal. I submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0119par0066	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit05spe0118par0067	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who don't agree... there's not enough decision-making, so I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0118par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to Article 72 of the Interior Charter, there was not enough decision to vote on the motion submitted by İzmir MP Oktay Vural and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, there is not enough. We will resume the talks of Bill 478. The commission and the government are in place. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Ten minutes is ten minutes to answer. Mr. Oğan... no. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0120par0009	Thank you. Now, with the 5th item brought in, some of the properties of the mosque, the mosque, the mosque, the Qur'an, which are available in complementary parts of the Qur'an courses and is used in commercial activities, are left to mosques, mosques, Kuran courses for free of charge. What's the amount of land that belongs to the treasury and the public institution and how much per square meter? How much is the state's loss of those who are left without a price? Again, with Article 7/5/2005 to date 30/6/2013, MPs imam-hatip, deputy muezzin, trustee, teacher of the Qur'an courses, who are Koran teachers, and those who serve in the Qur'an courses. I mean, it's a team that the dumbest societies don't prefer...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0121par0013	Thank you. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0122par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, 96 thousand...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0123par0017	It's not like it's been a minute!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0124par0018	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0123par0019	Don't play with that button over there! You interrupt me before a minute is up.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0124par0020	Mr. Young, we haven't interrupted you. Sit down for a minute...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0123par0021	You cut it...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0124par0022	What do you get out of this hand movement?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0123par0023	Be fair, instead of laughing like that! So you're a little bit human to run this coven there! Mr. Young, watch your language. I regret it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0125par0026	Look for yourself first.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0123par0027	But I'm going to cost you!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0125par0028	Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0126par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're putting 96 thousand contractors on staff. How many people on the contract staff can't be assigned to officers with this arrangement? Two: Do you plan to recruit expert teachers serving under the Ministry of National Education? Three: Will you be able to include in this bill a study of hiring people who have lost their jobs, who have lost their jobs because of the closing of troops while working in the watering company? And is it ethical to hire close to political debates and relatives first, first contracting them, then hiring them when the poor people who have been struggling for years to succeed in these KPSS exams are not? Do you think this is right or wrong? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0127par0035	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0128par0037	Mr. Secretary, we're civilizing the system, democratizing the system. How long will the AKP government, which has bombarded the public with propaganda, stand by while there is a Constitutional Court ruling on this matter, whether it concerns the duties of civil servants within the Turkish Armed Forces or not, will be subject to military administrative justice? How are you going to handle the responsibility of thousands of civil servants who have been wronged in their application to the military court to seek justice? Do you have a new study for this, or do you turn your back on these righteous demands because there will be no political abuse? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0127par0039	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0129par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a pensioner who has completed twenty-five or thirty years and has earned the right to retirement under the legal provisions of the law is then cut 15 per cent off from his salary when he works for a new job. In accordance with what legal framework is the right to be earned, and in accordance with what rights, and in accordance with justice? He's already taxed on his new job. How do you justify your earned rights? I present this to you, and I expect an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0130par0044	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0131par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it possible to consider the fact that outside-of-the-board staff working at family health centers should be put on staff under this law? In a similar way, do you plan to employ substitute midwifes and nurses? Another issue: Can we add an arrangement for the removal of second student fees in universities? Finally, do you have any idea how to adjust the status of temporary workers working five months and twenty-nine days to improve their rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0132par0051	Thank you. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0133par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how would you describe a law that regulates 71 separate laws and has 53 subsections in a clause of 142 articles? I was just wondering if you thought it strange what Mr. Vural just said. And as a Labour Minister, can you swallow the fact that public employees and the entire public staff regime are being regulated by a decree in accordance with the law? And since half of those items are canceled, that bag is in the law. And what's the reason for leaving the 4/C/C people to another spring, even though you promised? Do you think it's just a budget cut, or a choice, so let's do it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0134par0058	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0135par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many people work at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Garden Restaurant? What do you do if they make you wait forty-five, fifty minutes to order the pita when you order outside? Three: Does this mean that if a garden restaurant order takes forty-five-fifty minutes, it's a protest because you don't make arrangements about the 4/C? Four: Will the Speaker of Parliament do anything to ensure that this order for a pie takes forty-five-fifty minutes? Five: How many laws have you passed from 2002 to now as the same serial number? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0136par0067	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0137par0069	I'd like to ask Mr. Veysel Eroglu -- if he listens, Mr. Eroglu -- because Eroglu has a lot of commitments. Malatya Arguvan County has a Yoncalı Dam, a dam that has been under construction since 1995 but has never been finished, which has never been completed. In 2010 Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu asked you, "We'll do it." You said. A friend of ours, a member of the AKP Malatya MP, will be tendered on his website on May 15. We've asked you over and over again here, and you said you'd do the tender in June. You said Mr. Eroglu, but you still couldn't do it -- it's past the month of June, it's July. The Malatians are wondering if you're going to make this deal or not. And I'm asking you personally as a congressman. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0138par0072	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0139par0074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, there's an action today about pensioners living in Abdi Silky Park. The movement they started today is a hunger strike. And as of Friday, they want to turn it into a death fast. It's not just four people's problems. They are symbolically here today to announce their voices in solidarity among themselves, so that you can hear this voice. They're actually separated from their families, divorced from their wives, miserable with their children. I wish and wish that this problem would be resolved quickly before any real discussion is created. Otherwise, there's a process in which we've had a serious family break-up that attempted suicide on this subject. It's very concrete, and we're asking you for an answer. Thank you...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0140par0078	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0141par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. A large meat-integrated facility in Çerkeş district of Çankırı has contributed a great deal to the Cherkish economy for many years. But recently this company has been found to be in a very serious economic predicament, and our workers haven't been getting any money for a long time. Near 6 million TL, it is said that the workers are in debt. Our workers have already opened a tent and started a strike. The employer also wants to declare a lockout. About that, I hear our Minister of Labor has done a study. Any progress on that? Our workers there are really a victim. I expect our president to make a statement about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0142par0083	Thank you. Mr. Special, last question.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0143par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, 1.930 people work as pollers at Turkey's Statistical Institution as part of 4/C. But the newest one in the institution is 12 years old. For 12 years he has been working as a temporary contractor. But since it's covered by 4/C, unfortunately, the Prime Minister's demands will not be made into any arrangements regarding the 4/C. We've done what we're going to do. He has closed his ears because of his statement. Do you intend to hear the voice of 1,930 victims from the Turkish Statistical Institution and make an adjustment in this regard?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0142par0087	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0089	Sir, thank you very much. First of all, of course, the amendments to various laws referred to as the law are the necessity of the Civil Code. At the same time, Turkey...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0145par0091	Where's it written?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0146par0092	There's no such thing in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0093	If you'll excuse me, guys, let's finish.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0146par0094	As a member of the Internal Charter Commission, there is no such thing, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0095	I mean, as a fundamental law that includes change in various laws...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0146par0096	There is no such thing as the law of the bag.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0097	Now, where do these arrangements actually come from, how do you turn them into bags...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0147par0098	We couldn't find him, so I'm asking you to find out where he is.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0099	Mr. Mehmet, I'll answer your question. Now, if there is a General Assembly study that does not require these regulations, I believe these regulations will not be needed. In fact, we all have to object to these arrangements, to the fact that they're common. And in the Plan and Budget Commission, I've made it perfectly clear that there's no such thing as what we're all happy about, but there's a need. One of the reasons why this needs to happen is because of this system that we're working with the General Assembly. For him, the regulations of the Civil Code are to be carried out immediately and the General Assembly will not need more efficient and baggy laws...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0148par0101	Mr. Secretary, the AKP has left the table today.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0102	I think it's enough that he's moving to a point, in a way, to sort this thing out.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0148par0103	Mr. Secretary, your party left the table today.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0149par0104	So let's lower the voice of the opposition. It says, "Let's get it over with."
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0105	No, sir, no. Now, on the other hand, a technical question has been asked about free land in mosques. With this arrangement, some of the proceeds from parts of mosques, mosques, and Koran courses and used for commercial activities will be transferred to the Ministry of Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0150par0107	That's not important. Tell me about the treasured land that's been assigned there.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0108	...that some of them will be transferred to the Ministry of Religious Affairs...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0150par0109	That's not important, dear.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0110	...a part of which is intended to be used in areas such as maintenance, repair, lighting. How much land, how many businesses, I'm guessing you'll find appropriate to present it in writing.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0150par0111	What, you're the Minister, then answer here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0151par0112	There's something else here, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0113	This is about fellow contractors, and I'll tell you what's going on right now: about 72,500, 4/B (b) people, contracts working in around 23,000 local administrations, and contractors in the Ministry of Health. If the Supreme Assembly has any appreciation for corporate contractors, we're willing and willing to include institutional contractors. Of course it's the will of the High Council. A question was asked: 76,666 people will continue under contract at the OSCE, 4.752 as artists. Master executives are not covered by this. Another question was asked about social security benefits. The social security premium came into effect in 1999. He was also taken to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court did not cancel this application, but let me put it this way: where did this come from? So it's an incident that happened before us in the government. He has a point: It's an arrangement brought by young pension, 38, 40, 42 years old pension. If we had a retirement arrangement, as in modern countries, if there were no populist approaches, I believe there would be no need for social security benefits. We're talking about retirement at the age of 50. This continues to rise every year -- one year, two years -- every year. By the age of 55-60, I am convinced that social security benefits will no longer be needed. So I'd like to point out here that there's a parallel to the age of retirement because we have a young population. We have to act as a priority in the employment of this population as well as in the work of pensioners in another job for the young population. Now, about the public staff regime, actually, we have work to do. But we haven't been able to bring it to you in an orderly fashion. We're bringing in some personnel arrangements now. A question about 4/C is asked here. People of 4/C... you know, 4/C status was compromised during our time in power. Earlier, when the privatisation agencies were privatised, when the institutions became special, the staff actually had no chance to work in public. So, as far as I can remember, when the 4/C scope was created, when the 4/C status was created, we had about 7500 citizens who were unemployed because of privatisation. They've created 4/C status in accordance with their demands, and there will be demands today, of course, and we respect that, but I've expressed that today, we're getting an arrangement and a position on contractors. Our assessment of the 4/C) people was on the agenda last year at the collective contract table in August, and a month's work, an additional 28 days' work opportunity, has been recognised by 4/C) people and has reached a working point of 12 months. And this year, hopefully, I'd like to say that we find it appropriate to address their social rights and economic situation and their current difficulties at the community contract table in August. I've had a meeting with the workers, as our congressman has stated about the meat-integration plant. As stated here, we've determined that they're not paid for four months again, they're not paid, and we're interviewing the company now as intermediary. I'd like to point out that we're making an effort to make sure that both the union and the company and the ministry don't suffer any harm, especially when the Ramadan month comes. He asked me if I'm not mistaken about the 4/C" people in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It's probably because it's a question that's been submitted to Mr. President, but I don't think it's appropriate to do an evaluation again, as I've just expressed about the 4/C.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0152par0120	There are other 4/C people, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0144par0121	It's an important law in 1999, and it's an important arrangement. In all the arrangements that we've made regarding the social security system, I've personally experienced that opposition parties are in a very sensitive and very healthy approach to social security reform. Thus, our government does not express what a populist approach has lost to Turkey, but our government in 99 has also made an important arrangement. We respect this arrangement, it's the right arrangement, but the situation of our citizens, which we call "live," who worked at that time, and who faced a number of surprises the next day because of the law that came out in one night, has been arranged without consideration, and I express it. So if you're making a legal arrangement, you have to do it in the future, and it has to be done to those who are going to be employed after that law, but it's a problem today because it includes employees. We're sensitive to the demands of all segments of society, and we want everything to be resolved, but it's not yet invented to solve everything. But we're listening to our citizens, and I'd like to point out that we've established a healthy will to resolve their problems. Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0153par0123	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0124	Mr. President, Mr. Faruk is always evasive. I'm asking questions, I'm saying...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0153par0125	Mr. Young, the QA is complete.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0126	Wait a minute, listen to me! Are you the President or something?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0155par0127	What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0128	Are you the President or not? When a congressman talks here, you have to answer.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0129	Mr. Young, what do you think I am here?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0130	We asked him a question and he didn't answer.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0131	What am I to you, young man?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0132	I'm saying between 2005 and 2013...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0133	Mr. Young, the QA is complete.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0134	Wait a minute, I have something to tell you. Just hear me out! Between 2005 and 2013...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0135	Yes, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0136	It's not complete.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0137	I submit to your votes that it shall be passed on to its articles:
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0138	Answer my question!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0139	All in favor...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0140	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He has to listen to his congressman!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0141	Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0142	You have to listen!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0143	No, I'm not, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0144	He has to listen!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0157par0145	No, he doesn't have to listen.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0156par0146	No, it's not, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0147	You have to listen!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0158par0148	Sit down.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0159par0149	Take your seat.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0150	Look, you have to listen to me. I'm asking you something here, how can you not listen to me!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0160par0151	Time's up, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0152	No, why don't you listen?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0160par0153	I mean, now, did you scare us? Mr. Young, did you scare us?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0154	We're asking questions, so, I'm a congressman. You're supposed to be...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0160par0155	Now, let's begin the interviews of section one.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0154par0156	Yeah, listen to me! Are you deaf?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0160par0157	The first part includes Article 8 (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e) and (f).
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0161par0158	Back to your place, back to your place.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0162par0159	Don't talk to me, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0160par0160	Congressmans, please... Anthalya MP Mehmet Günal has asked to speak for the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0163par0164	Is it over, Mr. President? I waited for your argument to end, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0160par0165	It's not an argument. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0163par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. We see it because it's ahead of us, but you may not hear it, and there's no point in talking to the General Assembly until it's over. I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I asked you, how would you describe it? But it's really a freaking law, so it's polite. Now, for God's sake... there are 71 separate laws involved, 142 articles. 71 times 2 is 142? I mean, would that happen? It's like you've arranged two separate substances for each of these things, and you're putting them in. What are we talking about right now? We're talking chapter one, so the law is the basic law. Well, how is it the basic law, folks, that has 71 different laws? For God's sake -- we have a lot of friends in you who are lawyers -- open the 91st article, read it, and the Civil Code stands before the group's MPs. There are four or five separate convictions that include similar things in the same subject, this one, this one. In order for this to be the basic law, like, I don't know, the Law of Debts, like the Civil Law, like the Trade Law... Now that you've made everything the basic law... the Minister kindly said we'll speed it up once we've got the Internal Charter. He wants the opposition not to speak at all, not to make any motions. We make bags for it, we make basic laws for it. Oh, my God! We talked the other day. How will you run this Parliament without opposition, how will it be a democracy, dear friends? For God's sake... now you've brought them to Monday to discuss plans. So, what did you say and we accepted him? And you made the election yesterday because after the election is over, what we've been told here is that the bag of laws will only be discussed. What'd you get today? Have you made other laws by Monday with your recommendation to the Council? You did. We have no objection, but what is it? Then why did we discuss the development plan on Monday, Mr. Secretary? Whose mind is that? Mr. Group Vice President or Mr. Elitas? He's got these kind of ideas coming out of him, he's looking at them, but... why did we discuss this development plan on Monday -- if Congress is open until next Monday -- when we're in Congress, here, with TBM TV off, every five years? After the election, the General Assembly will discuss and close the bag. Now, what kind of law-making technique is this -- 142 separate substances, 71 laws -- how you make a fundamental law, and it's really hard for me to understand. I mean, do something, bring it in, let's see, let's see, let's see if we can't get through it, but we don't get a chance to end it here if you put a law on every one of these threats to keep up promises. If we bring something for the good of the country... there's a lot of economics, there's a lot of social problems, we say bring in the law about them, unfortunately when it comes to them, there's no speed like that. So it's not something that helps a lot of reason and reason at one time, it's harmful, so we're having trouble understanding it. There's no way you don't get lost in it when you look at it. There's a regulation of drafting, and there's nothing about it that clearly doesn't fit the bill. And also -- Mr. Secretary, we have other ministers here in the General Assembly, we're looking at -- who's dealing with this, Mr. Secretary? I mean, this kind of bill, this offer, it's all mixed up. So Mr. Secretary -- he's answering questions -- I'm wondering if you're the one who's dealing with this bag. So close to 100 of our friends signed here, an offer came in, a bill came in, it was all soup. On the subcommittee, our friends meet for hours and two days, and in the last second of the commission, there are some things that we've been seeing for two days. We said, "Why don't you sit down and do all this as a bill in the Council of Ministers?" Let each minister in the Council of Ministers bring something if he has something to do with himself. Now, the Internal Charter Commission is working, our friends are here. We say: "Bring a bag once a year. " Is such a bag habit? In the last two months, we've discussed five or six bags of law. If there is something urgent, the Prime Minister is there, the Council of Ministers is there; sit down, bring the important ones, and let the government own this bag. There are 71 separate laws, a bill that come unscheduled in commissions, a proposal, based on the bill and the proposal, no one has a chance to study it or look at it. So all of our signatories -- we've talked to them upstairs -- are saying, "What if our friends have political wills?" How are they going to read and bring these friends from 71 different laws? The draft law, along with the regulations of drafting, says the proposals have an analysis of the impact. There's no impact analysis, where will it go? No. How much more will there be if it covers the other parts? This one's gone, too. We've written it our way, it's all back to back, so there's a bunch of KHKs that we don't see here, from the cadastro to the forest, from the staff to the ministry's own organizational laws. I asked the Minister, "How do you digest the arrangement of these with the KHK?" We said that all of those articles, which are normally under the law, would return from our Constitutional Court, because they should be discussed in Parliament on the same day that they were first published in the Official Gazette, on the same day. Well, now that some of it's gone because it's already missing, we're putting two or three relevant clauses here, and we're not talking about the rest again. Outside of those provisions of these laws, the entire legal decrees must be discussed here, Mr. Minister; the constitutional decree would be invalidated if they were not. Oh, you accept it here, you change it or you reject it, it's a different matter, but when it's not discussed here, these KHKs are invalid. What are we doing here? We took a couple of items from each of them, we wrote them down as subtext jokes, and here we approve of them. I told you then that here the Prime Minister is giving the authority of the High Assembly. I told you, you had the right to lift a finger, and he left with the KHK. What do we do now? We're trying to correct some of the mistakes we said that day by putting them all in this law. So, let's give up this wrong disease. Now, Mr. Secretary of the Interior's Commission -- the Minister has just told us that we can correct it there. Once a year, the Council of Ministers will sit down, and if there's an emergency, if there's an arrangement that has to go out in three months before the House closes, let's support it as an opposition. Come on, tell me these things need to be grown by now, it's important. Let's get them out. Other than that, when one of them is standing there, another bag comes to the commission of the law, the other comes out of the commission, the General Kurula, and the other one goes to Parliament, one after the other. So this Parliament becomes a lawmaking machine, and the Plan and Budget Commission, unfortunately, replaces the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions. They're all supposed to come in as a bill, they need to pass through the relevant institutions, and they need to fly in from the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions in the Prime Ministry. Well, we're asking, our friends are coming, and there's no question about the law. When we ask the relevant institutions, the Prime Minister's office, all the friends from all of them, I'm afraid they haven't been received from them, Mr. Secretary, because they came in a hurry. Now, there's a lot in this law. We'll talk about it again in the materials, but our friends just asked, we're unfinished. When you were the minister in charge, if you remember, together, we passed the law of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. There's two items here. Our friends have come to you many times, and they've come to us, and we've told you then, there are inequalities among the employees about some transitions from expertise, if you remember, they've come again, and now they've told us again. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to tell that within the law either. Hopefully, during the General Assembly's day, we've had dozens of people come to us every day about these, the members of the Religious Affairs staff, the other contractors, and we're out of the picture. The Prime Minister and the ministers promised us in the election process, but they don't keep their promises. Please give these as a motion. They say so. We have files full of victims' reports and motions. I think it's necessary to take it into consideration here, without eliminating injustice among institutions and leaving our promise to the election, if there is, in terms of budget opportunities, without victimizing all employees to find their income. Hopefully, this bag bill will be the last, but we say it every time. I, for your success here, congratulate you again on gathering so many 71 separate laws, adding 53 submatters to a substance, creating such a freak, and allowing us to discuss it here as the basic law! There's nothing else to say, unfortunately, I can't find it. By the way, it's got all the essential ingredients in it, but unfortunately, it's all mixed up because it's turned into so much soup. So he says he's become a bag that's more damaged than useful, so for now, thank you, pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0164par0180	Thank you. Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP who asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of him.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0165par0183	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a promise to share your views on the first chapter of the Republican People's Party. I salute the High Council again. The January 24, 1980 decisions adopted as part of Turkey's economy's integration into the world's capitalism also laid the foundation of the arrangements for working life after that, as was the case in many cases. All the arrangements that we are trying to make today are the derivatives of January 24th decisions under the conditions of impact. Global wild capitalism has taken significant steps over the past years to overcome all obstacles to capital buildup in the world and Turkey, to expand the profits areas further, and to restructure the system in its own interest. In this context, all the arrangements that you've made under the name "reform" have created total destruction and poverty for a large part of society, especially workers and public workers. While the AKP was alone in power in November 2002, concrete steps were made to implement legal regulations that could not be carried out during the coalition administrations. The privatisation of public enterprises, the rapid commercialisation of public services, the legalisation of flexible work along with Business Law 4857, the radical regulations in the field of health and social security, AKP's employment strategy, and the legally legalized bag of legislation have noted the most prominent anti-emergency regulations in the 2002-2013 period. Again, we're facing a bag of legislation, and there's everything in it, but right now in Abdi Silkier Park, to retire, there's no solution to hunger strike first, and there's no solution to the problems of people who are going to die on Friday; there's no improvement of regulations that condemn pensioners to live under the hunger limit; there's no regulation that can solve the subcontracted problem, there's no regulation for all workers, there's no organizational barriers. On the contrary, if the bill is adopted, the government's office will be implemented, and political staffing will be completed. The hopes of over 2.5 million public workers, offered under the Memura staff title, will once again be blackened. This bag contains the complete elimination of the principle of career and integrity, as a result of the overturning of the conditions required to be appointed a senior executive in the public. The road to the ruling presidential system has to be paved, just as in the September 12th referendum, the process of presidentialisation of AKP has to be accelerated. In the AKP's last bag, it is not staff according to work; it is the work, the creation of positions. Job security isn't just about the staff. Giving the officer a staff is not going to be a clear solution until the unsecured flexible work is eliminated by the subcontractor system. The worker, the laborer, the retired cannot look to the future with confidence. In a society that can't look to the future with confidence, what development, what law can you talk about? As a result, the 4/C staff, which is not only the 4/B staff, or the 4/C staff, which is the equivalent of contractual employment, faces an important danger today, as well as the 4/A staff, which is known to be more advantageous than these. The bottom line is, no matter what name it's being employed, all public personnel are being dragged into what we call modern slavery today, 4/C/C/E. Privatisation, the expansion of subcontractorship, the domination of flexible work in all aspects of life, the production of all services under the public's obligation in market conditions due to 200 years of struggles, and the sale of public market price have been far too distant to predict during the past AKP power period. The most intense economic and social problems in Turkey have been during the 2002-2013 period when the AKP government was in power, as a result of privatisation and privatisation. During the AKP's ruling period, a freaking 4/C status was created, which was heavily created by the TECEL resistance to create the country's agenda. Along with this process of serious loss of rights, there has been a sharp decline in public hiring officers and workers, and in almost all institutions of the public, especially education and health, it has been on the way to employ contractors, subcontractors and temporary staff under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The AKP's biggest project is to create a cheap labor force; it is the project to enslave its own people, its citizens. This is the truth, dear friends, that AKP has promised the people. The prime minister says he intends to create thousands of unemployed young people and make our young people work under cheaper and more slave conditions. That's why these young people have been surrounding the streets for months and shaking down the AKP's power. They don't say for nothing. Do you want to have three children like me, Recep Erdogan? In short, the AKP government, which welcomes international companies, has turned its back on its own people. Given the change in public employment from 2002 to 2013, the rise in public employment has been far below population growth. This can be assessed to understand how widespread the public's flexible and unsecured work practices have been during the AKP period. In short, in Turkey, you planted dynamite and destroyed the foundations of working life. You've created jobs with different degrees among those who do the same job, and you've implemented hormone-powered working styles such as 4/B, 4/C. Now you're trying to distribute some kind of election bribe with your populist policies. If you really want to do something for the benefit of the workers, let's set up laws that will redefine your entire working life, pension, fair and square, in accordance with the ILO and the European acquisitor. Dear friends, I will now, especially in my final moments, say that when we consider all 4/C/L people who work here -- on the other hand, members of the Parliament -- 96, 98,000 people, under contract personnel -- Turkey will be saved by 26,000 people? When you rescue them from 4/C, will Turkey be saved? Therefore, once again, this Parliament must make an arrangement worthy of human dignity, where all practices such as 4/C apps, subcontractors, contract applications have been eliminated. This Parliament must establish laws against the order of slavery and create human working conditions in this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just two days ago, the minister said: "We are at the top of the lowest countries in labor and we are at the top of the longest countries in their working days. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0166par0199	Thank you. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0167par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. I made a pledge to our group on chapter one.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0168par0204	Mr. President, the government is gone as far as I can see.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0169par0205	I'm here. I'm here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0168par0206	Okay, Mayor, he's here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0170par0207	Mr. President, I'd like you to restart my time.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0171par0208	Please, Mr. Zozani, come in.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0172par0209	Mr. President, the government's seat is set. The government doesn't go around the General Assembly. Then take a break. If he's busy, let's regroup later.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0171par0210	You tell me. Here you go. I've rebooted it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0173par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on behalf of the department. I salute you all. Now, we're basically doing something against the Civil Code in the current situation. According to Article 35 of the Civil Code, we are currently doing a counterintuitive job because the proposal that we are currently interviewing came to the Commission in two separate ways, in the form of a bill and a proposal. The government's bill came in as a bill, followed by a collective meeting of the MPs' proposal according to Article 35. However, I'd like to share with you the relevant section of Article 35, which states that the Commission can accept or reject the bill or proposals referred to to them in exactly the same way or by changing them; they can meet by combining what they see about each other and meet in the halls which are reserved for them at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. See, it does not say that it combines drafts and proposals. Regarding the proposals, he combines and discusss what is related to one another. He says: "The explanation here tells us that if the proposals are related to one another, he meets them by combining them." However, we met by combining proposals and proposals at different times. We are continuing the commission's violation of the Civil Code in the Parliamentary General Assembly. The second important issue now is that part of the bill is a section under which the government has signed, and part of which lawmakers offer as proposals. Now, where is the government in this will? Is the government's will in all the drafts and all the texts here, or not? What we see in the Commission is, unfortunately, the government is not behind all of them. When you ask your MPs, they don't know what they're signing because they're not. And you're asking us to make a healthy assessment of it right now. It's completely against the Civil Code. I hope you'll take my claim seriously. We are in violation of Article 35 of the Civil Code. On the subject, let me put it this way: Now, in my recent speech, I have made a detailed point, and I will not bring up the new staff assigned to the President of Religious Affairs, but there is a fifth article that must be evaluated. He's assigning extraordinary powers to the President of Religious Affairs. The current field of office and authority of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is, unfortunately, a president based solely on the adoptions of the Hanefi sect in Turkey. So, it's more of a Hanefi order of affairs than the Head of Religious Affairs, but here, for example, you've taken mosques, which belong to different sects, but so far are outside the direction of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, into the monopoly of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. For example, the mosques of the Jaferis are connected to the Ministry of Religious Affairs in some way, and are subject to its justice. What's he looking at when he's doing this? He's looking out for the businesses underneath him. Representatives of the chair of the Ministry of Religious Affairs have stated in the Commission that this practice is not acceptable either. I mean, if you can get into a slippers shop because you want to get into a mosque, if you want to get into a mosque, it's not called a chapel. If you use the Kingdom Hall as a commercial place, if you bring the random mechanism into the temple, you will damage your reputation against the places of worship. Unfortunately, so is Turkey. The claim, sir, is that our mosques don't have self-inflicted income because it's done by association. Therefore, it is important for them to maintain themselves. He pays for his muezzi, and pays for his imam, and his expense, and the cost of his mosque. It's not like that. I claim, in the region you want in Turkey, in any town, in any city you want, let's compare a mosque with a mosque under which there's no trade, let's go, let's go. The mosque with no business under it is more decent, smoother. The mosques under which there is a business, unfortunately, are not well-groomed, nor do they look like a temple. You need to fix this freak, but what are you trying to do here? So far, there's a five billion dollars in savings, and somehow opening it up to the use of the President of Religious Affairs... And you're opening up mosques that he's never been able to build, the money that he's now building, in his fund, somehow, to the use of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Is there any point in turning the temple into a ranta? What are you doing this based on, based on what explanation? Another important point, the 10th item, the 10th article of the proposal we've discussed... we've always known that when the government employs its staff, it pays its officer on overtime. But there's an arrangement here that can be called a disgrace, that the government has set eyes on the employee's overtime. You're taking over people's overtime right now, there's an attempt to take it. If you go through it like this, if you agree, it's nothing more than the right to hire people to work under the name of public servants and not pay for their overtime. Don't share this shame. They say it's a shame, it's a sin. Don't eat people's sweat like that, they come into your dreams. That's three-and-a-half cents you already gave me. As far as overtime arrangements go, most people don't have the ability to work eight to five. Even if you wanted to, there's no way you could keep him in an eight-and-five working system. For example, a private administration staff, working on the ladle, building the village road, can you tell him you're going to work eight-five? But you're trying to tell me here. He's making a village route over the doll, no way to leave work at five o'clock, and without him knowing that you're going to make him a duty worker or a duty officer. Where do you get that right? On what grounds do you consider such a claim to yourself? Even dictatorships don't have that. People need to be respected for their sweat, for their labor, at least at the maximum. Hopefully, this will turn wrong when the road is near. I hope that at least a motion for correction will be submitted, or that our motions will be accepted in that way, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0174par0222	Thank you. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0175par0225	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the department. I salute you all. Do you call it thorba, or do you call it -- there's a ban there to print cotton -- or do you say it's forbidden -- we're talking about a law that we don't know what to call. You've got it all mixed up here. I mean, what has nothing to do with what, what has nothing to do with it, it's not obvious, but it's just us anyway. Now, there's something here about our 85,361 farmers that deals with 58 provinces related to these agricultural benefits. Now, which are these 58 provinces? What province are our farmers who benefit most from this vast sum?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0176par0228	Günlıurfa, Şanlıurfa, 10 billion.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0175par0229	I believe there are some real victims in these, but how many bonus benefits are going to go out of this government's pocket with forged documents, forged documents? Please, let the Minister answer us in this matter. So, now, the farmer really sows, sews, mows, doesn't earn the sweat of his forehead, can't get the support of the state, but on the other hand, with fake documents, someone gets the benefit of the state. Now, I've brought it up here a couple of times before, and I said, "Ya, these treasures, these farmers, they pay for it, they pay rent. When he rents it from a person, when he puts the papers on the rental land, he can get support there, but why don't you support the state's land when he pays rent? When I say "No way," he said. But now, when there are people here, who are really teamed up, who are actually victims, who can't get their bonus, who can't get their support, who you claim to be a victim, just to please the Minister of Agriculture or to please his constituents, how much support do you have with what? Please explain this to all the farmers in Turkey. Who's getting what? I want to know where this large sum of money goes, how much it goes, and I'm sure a lot of the farmers in Turkey want to know. Today the wheat producers -- more or less the wheat harvest in Turkey -- are all screaming. They sold wheat for $600,000, cost 650-700,000 in old numbers. Now, you're looking at cotton, $1.1 lira, $1.100,000 in old money. The cost of cotton is $1,600,000, which is $1.6. And now, is it God's will? So, you leave the farm team, brother, go settle in the slums of the city, and I'll give you green cards, give you food, become my constituent. You mean, you're trying to do that? Why do you take this cruelty to our farmers who are really trying to make it with the sweat of their foreheads, who are trying to get what they deserve? My dear friends, look, now -- I told you before -- the corn harvest will begin at the end of this month. Right now, all the bait factories that produce wing feed and big head feed are full of corn. Where are these corn producers going to sell their corn, who's going to buy it? They're gonna sell it to the office? The offices will find forty excuses, they won't buy them, they'll pay for them in three months, five months, and they'll go back and fall into the hands of the merchant. He has to, because he's got diesel, he's got fertilizer, he's got poison, he's got to go pay for them. So...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0177par0233	In advance, in advance...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0175par0234	Tell me about it, Mr. Mehmet, wherever you like God in advance, it's up to you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0177par0235	Ask the office, the office.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0175par0236	Now, if you're going to make arrangements, if you're really going to make the farmer happy, let's pay off the loans of farmers who can't pay their loans to the Farm Bank. You've narrowed it down to a year, like regular private banks, and you've reduced the loans from the Agriculture Bank to a year. There's a lot of tardy farmers' debts on the Farm Loan, paying default interest, so let's build them up, and we'll figure it out. No, there's nothing to do with any of this. What? The Minister of Agriculture is trying to please the farmers in his hometown, here's this, nothing else, my friends. For him, this law is not the right law. I don't accept this law and I don't find it right as a man who defends the rights of a Turkish farmer as a Çukurovan fence. It's not fair to the farmer who sweats his own way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0178par0240	Thank you. Mustafa Baloglu has been asked to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0179par0243	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the first chapter of the law under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. The chapter contains substances from article 1 to Article 23. The week we left behind, two days' work on the lower commission and 19 hours' work on the top commission brought the law down to the General Board. As a result of its interest in more than one area, the law, which is regulated as a bag of legislation, brings with it many innovations. We can limit the regulations envisioned on this bill and its bill in this way: Since they live in forest villages and are not actually registered to the population of the forest village, it is intended that those who are unable to use loans as part of the ORC will be able to use loans with the predicted change. Again, it is intended that the mosque, the mosque, the mosque, the mosque, the Quran courses for commercial activities be operated by the Ministry of Diet Affairs, the contracting of the State Reciprocal Law, or the rental of the property, and that these funds should be used to compensate for expenses related to mosques, mosques and Kuran courses, and for the benefit of charity and foundations. Again, those who are still in office, acting imams, deputy muezzin, trustees and teachers of the Quran Schools of Religious Affairs, are expected to be appointed without any restrictions on the staff's competencies, if they have to apply within three months. With regulations, the requirement for graduation at the entrance is standardized for assisting specialists. The minimum time of service sought for taking the qualifying examination is reduced from three to two years. Again, the process of preparing the thesis sought for taking the expert competency exam and the requirement of having a foreign language certificate sought to be assigned to the profession are cut from obligation to make it an elder. In addition, a minimum period of service is reduced to two years in order to enter the competency examination, professional staff, occupational staff or audit staff, after being taken into special competition examinations by the other public institution, the board, the upper council and its organisations, which is established by special law, and the supervisors, and the operators. In the process of preparing a thesis, the requirement to have a foreign language certificate wanted for appointment of professional, occupational staff or audit staff members to their positions has been removed from necessity and has been made to be an elder again. It is also intended to result in new regulations on the competencies and appointment of assistants and interns in the career trade group, as well as on competencies or internships. Again, the kind of reescon credits used by the Central Bank source is envisioned to be lifted from a hundred and twenty-day deadlines, which can be adopted to the bank in order to be more flexiblely determined by the bank's money and reserve policies and the export structure. Again, it is intended that jobs and procedures for sending students abroad to meet the needs of university professors and public institutions and institutions, both by the Ministry of Public Education and other public institutions and by the CEC presidency, preventing effective and efficient use of public resources, resulting in an incompatibility with the power and mission, and the implementation of the work and procedures should be carried out by a single hand to the OHR presidency. Again, as part of the European Union's integration process, our country's driving documents have been adapted to the European Union's driver's documents and the Convention on Highway Traffic and the definitions of our participation in this Convention in the Completive European Agreement have been modified and the license of the motorized transport driver has been applied to the road's Traffic Law, the driver's license and the driver's driver's driver's license has been identified. A change has been made in the Ministry of National Education in order to ensure that the theoretical and practical exams can be made for real and legal people. Again, a change is being made in the Ministry of Health's duties in order to ensure that the health conditions sent to health care services are monitored for 30 days after traffic accidents, so that the statistical data of those who died and were injured can be kept better. In this way, the law makes many improvements. I thank the members of the ministry, the commissioners, who have been involved in drafting the law, and I wish the law to be a blessing to our country.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0180par0256	Thank you. Now, there will be a question-answer procedure on the section for 15 minutes. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0181par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to put an arrangement in place to solve the problems of our citizens who have been under arrest for violating this commitment? Another, business and professional advisors are being put on staff with this offer, but there are allegations that their salaries will be reduced. Will any of this be a victim? One final question is, what is the condition of contract workers in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and is there a solution for them in this proposal? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0182par0264	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0183par0266	Yes, I've just asked you, and I'm going to ask you again: Now, with the 7th item brought in, they're not going to be tested, and they're going to take the top salary, they're going to take the top salary, they're going to take the top salary, they're going to take the top salary. You don't hire engineers in this country, you don't hire chemists, you don't hire physicists, you don't hire teachers, but you do. What's the number of these? On what grounds will you take it? How much will you give them per month? That's what I want to know. And there's a serious state of affairs. I mean, first of all... how many casts are there? It finds 100,000, according to my calculations. I mean, is there any point in putting all these people in this position on the way to the election? I mean, you don't think that this government...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0182par0269	Yes, thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0184par0271	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will the staff be given the right to transfer? What's the number of contracts out of bounds? Why aren't four-acres hired by KPSS staffed? In addition, assistants from the 50/D staff at universities are dismissed if their contracts are not extended. Don't you think you should put the assistants from the 50/D staff on the government staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0185par0274	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0186par0276	Mr. President, we've brought it up over and over as the National Movement Party, but the dead stone has spoken of land, and there has been no progress in the AKP government. In these last days of the House, we are tirelessly, tirelessly bringing it up once more and waiting for an answer. Our fellow specialists and privates are asking for a quick answer because there are hundreds of employees who will be over 45 years old and lose their rights in the next few days, which may not mean much to us. Mr. Secretary, do you have any work on the removal of the 45-year-old limit set to continue the contracts of specialists and privates? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0185par0278	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0187par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the nineth article you bring in, you put part of the contract staff on the staff, but you insist on not taking part in the staff of public college graduate workers and temporary workers. I want to know what will become of them if they join the government, the staff. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0188par0283	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0189par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the previous question-answer, you said things that you couldn't answer because the time didn't grow, that I had just presented to you personally, that you were a victim of the 1972 arrangement in TİKK, and that you could only do something about the non-privatisation staff, which is a name-like, which you could certainly do with these friends. Is it possible for you to answer this question with clarity, so that both the reports and the expectations of their families can be met? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0190par0288	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0191par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is there any secret witness from the D.A.? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0192par0293	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0193par0295	Mr. Secretary, I asked you last year, there are temporary workers on the State Railways. Sometimes they work five days a year, sometimes a month, and even after a hundred years, they can't retire. Do you plan to put them on staff, to these veterans who work for the State Railways temporarily and under any difficult circumstances, who work for the railroads? Can you at least do a ministry study for them to work harder? I wanted to be their voice in this regard to the victims of the railroad workers -- you know this -- in close-up temps. In Malatya, there are more than 600 temporary workers in particular. They're very victims of this. They await news of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0192par0297	Thank you. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0194par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to take the staff, especially the subcontractors who work in public -- which most of them have decided, that they're not temporary -- or are you willing to give them compensation and separate them from their duties? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0195par0302	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0196par0304	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there are staff at public education centres, which we call public educational institutions. They're really important for our young girls to get jobs and jobs from housewives. But they have no status, they have serious problems, and they have high expectations of your government's work on contractors who are going to take office, but we can see that they're under siege by this bill. Are you considering an arrangement? Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0197par0308	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a member of the Ministry of National Defense who works as an officer, works as an officer, and does not exceed 100. They're not workers, they're not exactly how they work. Isn't it possible for them to become officers -- because their numbers are 70 to 80 -- that we're not going to be able to include them in this bag of laws? They're very victimized, and they have no guarantees whatsoever. As Secretary of Labor, I think you can help with that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0198par0311	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0199par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we have seasonal workers in sugar factories, like ten, fifteen, 20 years each. We put the staff on for six months last year, but a lot of them -- ten, fifteen, twenty years as I just told you -- didn't get a staff because they didn't work for six months in the year. Do you intend to give them a position within this bag of law? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0200par0316	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0201par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. It was asked about the hiring of business and professional advisors. Business and occupational advisors are being recruited by this arrangement. There's a request for recruitment. They don't want to stay as contractors, but if there's a partial increase in their fees, any reductions, I'm not in a position to answer that right now, but they're definitely going to be recruited. Regarding deputy imam-members, Mr. Young One has just asked how much is the rent for commercial venues owned by the treasured mosque of the Dianetite? Between 2007 and 2012, there is a total of $54 million income, 54. How many of these have been given rent, and how much is the rent? 946 places or places of employment, anyway, have been leased. The number of these proxy-imam orators is now 2.081. They're going to be $1,900. Sir, you're taking the clergy, you're not taking the teachers. We're getting 42,000 teachers in August, 42,000 teachers in the government's Chief of Staff.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0202par0321	You're taking it without testing it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0203par0322	They're taking the test, Minister, and you're taking them without a test.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0201par0323	Now, on another subject: the number of contracts was asked in the municipality. There are 23,000 contract personnel in the municipalities. They're being recruited. We don't have an age-related study on specialists and privates, but we need to ask the concerned Minister, our Minister, if there's any work within the Ministry of National Defense. The other issue is that there is no regulation, bill or proposal for the right to hire four-year degree workers. As for TİK personnel, as part of 4/C, these are not employees who come in under privatisation, but also 4/C people who, as I've just said, come in all together from 19,000 privatisations, and the rest of the 4,000 work in TİK and similar institutions. We will make an assessment of their rights, their social positions, their rights, in August, and if a status change is needed, we will be able to make a clearer assessment after the collective contract in August. He also had important questions about agriculture, especially in the talks of our dear friends. There is a situation where we aim to do this in our arrangement for agricultural support. Imagine a farmer, he's got the product, he's got the product, he's selling it to the merchant. After the merchant is sold, the merchant gives him a document, a bill or so. These examinations show that the bills contain either plastic or forged documents. Because of this document, our producers, our farmers, have been cut off from their support, or their support given during that time is asked to return with interest. Of course, it concerns about about 85,000 farmers, about 85,000 farmers in 55 counties, so there's something on the stand that says that there's an arrangement that's facing certain cities, facing certain farmers. That's out of the question. We're talking 55 provinces, 85,000 farmers and about 200 million liras. There's no excuse for the issues that are being held here, or there's no such thing as giving up judgment. These processes will continue exactly the same. A review by the ministry determines that they're producing real production, and they'll receive the support payments they deserve. The farmer has a victim. I'd like to point out in particular that there's an arrangement to compensate for the farmer's victimization. If I'm not mistaken, the 50/D/Students do not include today's work on an arrangement for students. Also, I'd like to point out that we've done a lot of work on subcontractors, and we've got drafts, but it's a subject we're having a hard time negotiating, so if I may give you an example, it's a matter of severance pay. The subcontractors don't deserve it, but our other public workers deserve compensation. It has to turn into a form that includes all the employees in order to get it earned by subcontractors. There's a difference of opinion on that. That's one. Besides, there are issues in the judiciary -- as you've expressed -- that are the decisions that the judiciary has made. Of course, within the framework of our legislation, you will either pay the employee's compensations, or you will receive them as staff workers, within the framework of the verdict. And here, when you recruit, there are other objections because thousands of workers, thousands of workers waiting in line, other problems are happening. This is where I once again state that we are determined to bring together a collective arrangement for sub-employee employees at the beginning of the year of the legislation, concerning sub-employment employees in our arrangement and in October. We've made significant improvements to their social rights, to their social security, to their debt requirements, but there are demands for recruitment. I'd like to point out that these are not included in this arrangement. About seasonal workers, or part-time workers, or workers working under six months, to be put on staff and completed, to be transformed into twelve months. As you know, we've arranged for 227,000 workers to work for six months. There's no arrangement for employees under six months. I'd like to point out that that six-month rule is valid. Thank you so much, guys.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit06spe0204par0335	Thank you. Thus, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, after I've processed the clauses and the motions on that clause, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. But I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0204par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 478. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are two motions on item 1, which I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 in question is 1. We would like to add the expression to the end of the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mahmut Tanal Izzet Cetin Kamer Young Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 1 of the framework of the current law proposal 478 rows has been changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mustafa Erdem S. Nevzat Don't Fear "MADE 1-10/2/1954's Article 33 of Article 6245 (b) has been included in the declaration "Ill Education Controllers and National Education Controllers" following the declaration "Social Security Controllers and Social Security Investigators," which is included in Article 33 of the Harcirah Law (b). Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0205par0019	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0204par0020	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0206par0021	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0204par0022	Mr. Vural, on the motion...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0207par0023	Motive.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0208par0024	Mr. President, this motion is the same as it is, it's not changing matter, it's not making any changes in matter if friends look at it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0209par0025	There's a difference if you compare it carefully.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0208par0026	No, his sentence doesn't change in matter, there's a difference in your presentation. So it's not about to come after the announcement, because it's the same here. If you look, Mr. Erkan.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0210par0028	Is that okay? You put the comma somewhere else.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0211par0029	I'm reading the reason: The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who are under Act 4924 and contractors working in local administrations and those who follow the conditions of the imam, deputy immaculate, and paralegal Koran instructors. However, there are no contracted personnel and MPs assigned to the officers, and there are no contracted staff under the special laws of the law. There are no 4/Cs who live most deeply in the victimology. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. There is an obstruction of rights-seeking freedom of citizens and an intervention in the judiciary regarding the publicized property. The right to information on the questions and answers of the PSYM exams has been blocked. The public interest in its capital is directly or indirectly excluded from the Court's control of companies, which are less than 50%. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0212par0045	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0211par0046	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'm doing it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Kokturk and Mr. Köse. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 in question is 1. We would like to add the expression to the end of the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0213par0062	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0211par0063	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0214par0064	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0211par0065	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0215par0066	Kamer Young will speak.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0211par0067	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0069	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 1 of the bizarre Bill of the Law, 478 rows. Now, that's not a law. If the lawmakers who signed under this law remember a clause, I'll take it back. That's not gonna happen, guys. Someone's writing the law, bringing it in. Now, you're looking at a subcommittee report, the subcommittee's first clause is different, other articles are different. Such an illegitimate party, an illegitimate power! Here, look, is there anyone in the power lines? No. There's no government.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0217par0071	That's the Minister over there! See if you can't see, Minister.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0072	Where's the government? Where's the government?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0217par0073	There's the Minister, Minister!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0074	Their joys... they get on government planes, they collect their families, they go, they eat, they drink, they enjoy themselves everywhere. It's either coming from your nose.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0217par0075	You're the one watering flowers!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0218par0076	Mr. Young, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0077	Now, the motion we have made regarding this law clause is that if you say you will bring such a thing in pieces, you do not need to bring new legislation proposals and drafts of Law 6145 to Article 33 of the Law No. 6245, you do not need to bring new proposals and drafts to Article 33 of the Law. But now, look, when this Parliament is going on vacation, sir, there's no need to bring in bills that will inconvenience this country so much. For one thing, there's a president of the AKP, a fighter, who's trying to rebel in every country. He says: "There is a man at the head of the hangman who sees all kinds of ugliness legitimately. " Who is this executioner, my friends? They're shouting at us from time to time. You're in love with your executioner. Tell us who the executioner is. The honorable and honorable man, who tells this executioner. This is what they call the executioner: they call him the executioner. First he's drunk, now he's an executioner. Sir, who is he?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0219par0079	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0220par0080	There's no such thing. What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0081	Well, let him say it. Ask him, who is the executioner, and who is the executioner? He must tell him.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0220par0082	Maybe it's you, maybe it's you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0221par0083	What the hell are you trying to say?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0084	Sir, he's telling Mr. President that in order to get rid of his blackness... who's the nigger? Nigger's a human being. Recep, I mean, tell me who you are. He means blacks, Alevis. So he says, "You're the Alevi, you're the Alevi." Okay, so am I. I mean, we're proud of our flammableness, but he wants to get rid of his blackness. Oh, man, does that ever happen?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0220par0085	What should we do if you can't understand?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0216par0086	Now, from time to time, people aren't addressed with such low, low thoughts. The people who have political power are in this country, if they really don't want to start a brother fight...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0222par0087	Mr. Young... please speak clearly.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0223par0088	You're the bastard!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0224par0089	You're the lowest in the House!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0225par0090	...they have to make peace in this country.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0226par0091	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0225par0092	So the people at the ruling party are going to give us all kinds of insults...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0227par0093	You're insulting me!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0225par0094	After that, they'll accept Ataturk as executioner, they'll accept him as a drunk, and then they'll come out and...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0227par0095	We didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0225par0096	This country can't be ruled by that thought, that mind, with such laws...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0228par0097	You're just saying what you're saying.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0225par0098	There used to be a finance minister in this country, the finance minister, who used to come to these places to ensure the stability of the finances. Here, when a spending law comes in, he's going to intervene, but now there's nothing here; there's no government here-- they make a motion for whoever's thinking about it, and then...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0228par0099	In psychology, there's this thing called counter-reflection, you say what's in your heart, you project what's in your heart to someone else.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0225par0100	There is no government. The state's most treasured treasures are being brought in, some people are being asked to be pursued, and so this state is being sent to bankruptcy. The government is bankrupt today. Now, we're asking questions to people who are sitting in government lines, and our questions aren't being answered. We have hundreds of questions about corruption, and they're not being answered. The issues discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly are hidden from the public. And where can you go with this secrecy, with insults, attacking people? Do you think, Recep Erdogan, that 5,000 police officers you took will protect you tomorrow? There you have it, what Mursi's become. He had a lot of cops around him, too.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0229par0103	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0230par0104	You're a coupger, too?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0231par0105	Mr. Young, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0232par0106	So none of you should trust yourselves. Look, there are facts in this country that you don't understand. It's the truth against...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0233par0107	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0231par0108	Mr. Young, are you being a coup d'état? Is it appropriate to be a coup d'état from the Turkish Grand National Assembly?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0234par0109	Striker, striker! Striker!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0235par0110	You're a man in your time for coups!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0236par0111	I'm not a coupger. You're the one who did the blow. You are against the will of this land. Look, the one who brings the coup every day... you've made a counter-revolution here, you're trying to destroy the counter-revolutionary, you're trying to destroy the Ataturk, you're trying to destroy its principles.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0237par0112	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0236par0113	But you don't have it in your head, and you can't afford it, because counter-revolutionaries need to be smarter than revolutionaries, they need to be stronger than revolutionaries, they don't revolutionize with ignorant robes. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0238par0116	You're the coupger, coupger! Go! The product of the intermediary regime, the product of the intermediary regime!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0239par0117	Is it appropriate to call for a coup from the Turkish Grand National Assembly?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0240par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0241par0119	Silence those who still call for a coup!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0242par0120	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0243par0121	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0244par0127	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In fact, representatives of the group in which the MP was speaking here should have been more sensitive than the members of the group, the members of the group, the members of the AK PARTI Group, to silence this MP. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Because a congressman who's trying to make the impact ring a bell and show the way to the coup...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0245par0129	They clapped, they clapped, there's no shame in them!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0246par0130	Look at you, look at you! Shame on you, you! You applauded the main blasphemous!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0244par0131	...it does not fit into the Republican People's Party, which is alleged to be a party establishing the Republic of Turkey. I wish, I wish...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0245par0132	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0246par0133	Look at your age! You dirty bastard!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0245par0134	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0247par0135	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0248par0136	...If the Republican People's Party claims it's a party that has no habit of coming to power after the coups, if the inside of such a formula tells us it's made up, it would stop the MP from talking.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0249par0137	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0248par0138	But, in the press, to prove that the formulation for the work of the public and the army, equal to the revolution and the power, was not here... that the Republican People's Party officials should have silenced this MP.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0250par0139	You got used to it, you shut everybody up.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0251par0140	They applaud, they applaud.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0248par0141	But, apparently, they agree that the mindset of the coup is deeply rooted in the inner mind that they do not silence this MP, who is in the coup d'état and is the product of the coup, who is a member of the Council of Counsellor; the same opinion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two, I'm telling the Republican People's Party officials... look, this MP is saying dirty things, he's trying to make a mean thing out of it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0252par0144	Didn't your congressman tell you?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0248par0145	I'm telling Republican People's Party officials that they should put a treatment plant in this person's speech, go through that decontamination facility, and try to express it in a little bit more proper sentences. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0253par0148	It still doesn't.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0254par0149	Even a purging plant won't clean you up!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0255par0151	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. And from here, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court, I condemn the congressman who calls for every coup. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0256par0155	The coup d'état talks about...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0255par0157	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0256par0158	From his speech on the stand, as far as I can tell, he was making a call for a coup. I don't know, Mr. Group Vice President also criticised our group for that. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to express our group's understanding of this matter from the stand.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0257par0159	I said that you should have reacted at the same time as the Deputy Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0258par0160	Hopefully, he'll fix it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0259par0161	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0260par0164	Don't worry, the Republican People's Party has been opposed and disapproved of the coups throughout its entire political life. [[From the AK PARTY rows, the sounds, the noises.]] Don't be coy! Don't be coy! Two hours ago, I warned you not to spoil the ruling majority here.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0261par0167	That's not good.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0260par0168	I've come out on behalf of the group, and I condemn you for putting your trust in this crowd without knowing or listening or understanding what I'm going to say.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0260par0171	Wait a minute... what do you mean?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0172	Mr. President, please... A group doesn't suit the Vice President, so let him take it back.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0260par0173	Mr. President, you have to make us talk.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0263par0174	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0175	Mr. President, take it back.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0263par0176	Sit down, please... you'll want a word at the end, sir, you'll talk.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0264par0177	A congressman...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0178	Mr. President, you have to interrupt.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0264par0179	Mr. President, I'm speaking here. You come and talk.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0180	Mr. President, he's being a smartass. He can't say that.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0264par0181	Yeah, I'd say so.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0182	You're being a smartass.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0264par0183	You're a smartass.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0265par0184	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0185	You're being a smartass. You can't say "suspenseful."
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0264par0186	You're a smartass.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0265par0188	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0189	Mr. President, a congressman can't tell a congressman to be smart.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0266par0190	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0262par0191	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0267par0192	When an MP talks on the stand and says, "We're anti-victims," it's all...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit07spe0268par0194	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0268par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 478. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0269par0010	Yeah, I just didn't get a chance to tell you about me on the stand. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0268par0011	Mr. Altay, come in, but please, let's not get into any more trouble. Your predecessor called for a coup, so let's condemn him. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0270par0013	Mr. President, Mehmet Metiner is in the front row; no problem, send him in.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0271par0014	Don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0272par0017	Mr. President, it's true what I just said when a speaker on the stand says the first word of a sentence and the majority party laughs as a choir. As a matter of fact, what I just said in Turkish means one who thinks himself wise and wise, and is wise. I'll tell you that first. Dear friends, the People's Party of the Republic has never been in favor of a coup in any time in history. You've got the wrong reflexes. I'll point out that in a broader environment, we'll take a long-term word and we'll discuss it, and I'm open to discussion. After the events in Egypt today, a Mursi analogy is not incompatible with the members of our group. There will be no more coups in Turkey. As a matter of fact, I... (EC PARTY AND CHP APPLAUSE) Well, look, if you had listened, you wouldn't have smiled like you did before. I'm the one who said that if something like that happens in the 23rd century, if a tank comes in front of the House, I'll go up to the top of the tank with my gun, you know that.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0271par0019	Thanks.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0272par0020	In this regard, you are Muslim, as in all matters. If you're really against the coup, we've been saying for months, so let's clear the laws of the coup. We've made 19 amendments, we've proposed laws, we've announced a package of democratization to the public; why haven't you taken a step? When you say "Democratization," you're not going to take a step forward, but when you catch a little something, you're going to become an apostle of democracy. But I also remind you: Do you come from the tradition of blood, or without blood?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0273par0022	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0274par0023	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0273par0024	Are you going to be bloody, without blood? You're coming from a tradition. He used the wrong expression. Someone twisted the words of the late General President at the time of Erbakan, and in that sense we felt as if we were doing a bloody, bloodless coup...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0275par0025	Erbakan isn't your President-General!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0273par0026	He's my president.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0276par0027	Mr. Elitaş, please don't make a fuss. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0277par0030	You were then the mayor of the Homeland Party, Mustafa Bey.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0278par0031	At that time, Mr. Elitaş was in ANAP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0279par0033	Look, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the late Erbakan was my President in the 1994 elections.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0278par0034	You were in ANAP, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0279par0035	A demonstration appeared on the streets of Ankara, just like this, when Ankara Metropolitan Municipality was won in the 1994 elections. In this demonstration, those who can't handle the mayoral leadership of the Welfare Party, on the one hand in İstanbul, on the other hand in Ankara City, on the other hand in Kayseri Municipality, on the other hand, those who can't digest Turkey's gains in the major cities, on the other hand, will be involved in the transition to the late Erbakan (democracy), as said by the late Erbakan. But I reminded Mr. Altay the other day, and I said, "Look, you've always expressed your opposition to the coupgers. For the first time, I said that the coup of May 27 was a major development by a group of Republican People's Party vice presidents here, and I gave an example: If you look at the 3rd June 1960 newspaper of the Nation, the late Inönul was a legitimate revolution of May 27th. I thought you'd see what I said, but I was wrong. You know what? It wasn't June 3rd, it was June 2nd. If you look at the National newspaper of June 2nd, you will see if the May 27 coup was revolutionary according to the U.N., and you will know who said it. On March 12th, you know who's the head of the government, who's the independent government, who's the president of the United States. I'm actually pleased to hear from Mr. Altay, but it's in the records of who's against the coup and who's not the coupger here, not the yelling, but who's saying it in the past. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0280par0039	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0040	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0280par0041	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0042	Mr. orator has accused our 2nd President of declaring the May 27th revolution legitimate on the stand, which he has come out to answer me, based on a newspaper clipping. I have that newspaper clipping. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer. Of course, since you've given me the right to answer what I'm saying for a politician who's not his own president...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0282par0043	I'm saying Erbakan was my president.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0044	...you will naturally have a say in my president.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0283par0045	Mr. Altay, we'll finish the 147 articles today. We just started. Here you go, sir, two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0048	Thank you. Well, it's almost a democracy race in Parliament, and we're competing to become democrats, and I'm very happy about that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the late Mr. Erbakan, who, of course, is our fellow countrymen, may he rest in the lake of light, I'll tell you that. But this isn't just about Mr. Erbakan, it's about a mayor of yours...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0284par0051	The Mayor of Kayseri.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0285par0052	He was a congressman.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0053	As in Cezayir, blood will flow, it will be like peanuts. He said, "Your mayor, your MP." Now, Mr. Elitaş will come to him and find an answer, but I have to say that Mr. Elitas, our 2nd President, Inönûn. On 2 June 1960, when he was interviewing foreign journalists, in fact, looking at the headline, all of the news -- not like you did -- has been misinformation of the General Assembly and the public here. Here's the title...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0286par0055	The headlines are important.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0056	The headlines aren't everything. Indulence: This movement is a legitimate revolution. This is not the complete sentence of the Inönu. This is the title of the newspaper's interview at the end of the interview.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0287par0058	It's a semi-official broadcaster.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0059	Mr. President, it doesn't suit you, so don't interrupt. For one thing, interpret this action as a legitimate revolution. So, Inönu is not saying that this revolution is legitimate, it's one. Yes, the nuances are here, Mr. Recep. Two, I advise you to read the whole story. We weren't involved in this revolution, he says.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0288par0062	Come on April 27th.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0281par0063	When asked about your savings, your reflexes, go ask the Chief of Staff. Please, a man who founded this country, this state, this republic, this Inönu... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In fact, you have very little time left to speak ill of Ataturk, so I understand. There is no difference between defaming the Inönun and blaspheming the Ataturk. And we'll never get over it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0069	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0071	Mr. President... sir, Mustafa Elitaş...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0072	It's over, Mr. Young. Over.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0073	Wait a minute, listen to me! Listen to me, please!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0074	Mr. Young, you're going to stand here, you're going to provoke...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0075	Just now, Mustafa Elitaş...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0076	...you're going to make the call to the attack.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0077	Just a minute, Mr. President, I'm a congressman. I was just accused. Look, he said on the stand: "My lord has invited me to the revolution." He misunderstood my speech, so let me correct it.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0078	I'm not, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0079	Sir, how?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0080	I'm not.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0081	Why don't you give it to me?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0082	I'm not, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0083	Are you a thug?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0084	You're the one who's been wasting so much time.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0085	No, no, I want a promise about your attitude.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0086	I'll vote if you like, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0291par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0290par0088	Mr. President, you have to promise.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0089	I don't want to vote. I'll vote if you want, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0291par0090	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0289par0091	Your group vice president has given the necessary answer. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0291par0093	Mr. President, if you don't mind, Mr. Young, that perception is understood, it seems, in one minute, that he didn't mean it, and the atmosphere...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0292par0094	He's on the books, Mr. President, he's on the books.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0291par0095	No, let him tell me himself.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0293par0096	If he's gonna tell me that's not what you meant, I promise you where he is. Here, I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0294par0098	Let him speak at home, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0293par0099	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0102	Now, you're fighting too hard not to promise me anything. You're suing me.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0293par0103	Mr. Young, make a statement just now.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0104	Look, wait a minute... you're suing, and the case...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0293par0105	A moment's promise...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0106	I mean, you want me to insult you, you want to sue. Yeah, well, I'll give you whatever money you need in advance, so after that, I mean, give it up.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0293par0107	I'll sue you for every conversation, Mr. Young. I'll take them.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0108	Because you're driving me crazy, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0293par0109	You'll have to answer in court.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0110	I mean, I'm telling you right now... Mustafa Elitaş says he's done something. I say, "Look, don't push this regime so hard. Five of our citizens died today, 12 of our citizens had their eyes cut out, thousands of our people attacked. If you're in favor of democracy, listen to the people. Every day, in many places, in Turkey, at night, people are entering their homes, young people are being brought in, tortured. This is what exists in Turkey. Friends, if the regime is blocked, the regime will find a cure for itself.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0296par0111	He's saying the same thing, Mr. President, he's still a coupger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0112	So we say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We invite you to come to my senses.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0296par0115	He's still a coupger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0295par0116	We're against revolutions.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0297par0122	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I vote item one: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on Article 2 that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law 478 be replaced as follows by Article 2 and Article 2 added to Industrial Register Act 6948. Mustafa Elitaş Ramazan Can Hakan Çağoğlu Smurf Unal Tülay Bakır Ekrem Çelebi Mine Lök White Mehmet Doğan Kabbat "The administrative fine shall not be imposed on those who have not registered in industrial enterprises, regardless of whether or not they are active, who have completed the registration process from industrial enterprises to 31/12/2014, under Article 9 of this law, for those who do not register their industrial record." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second amendment of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. It is dated 2 - 17/4/ 1957 and added the following temporary clause to Industrial Register Number 6948. "Second article 9 of this law does not impose administrative fines on those who do not register industrial enterprises from 1/7/2014 on whether or not they are active, regardless of whether or not they are active. The administrative fines, which have been cut by the time this law is in effect, will be revoked." Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık Abdullah Levent Tusel Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and remove the statement from the article, "except whether or not it is ineffective" in Article 2 of Article 6948, which is added to Article 2 under Article 2 of Article 2 under the Law of Industry, under which there is a amendment to Article 478 of the Law and Law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the 2nd Amendment from the proposal text of the current law proposal of 478 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mustafa Erdem S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0298par0159	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0297par0160	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0299par0161	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0300par0162	Motive.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0297par0163	I'm reading the reason: In addition to a temporary clause in the 6948 Industrial Register Act, administrative fines imposed on unregistered businesses are pardoned and registered to unregistered businesses are pardoned. The item was added to the subcommittee at the last minute. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and the Finance Ministry bureaucrats were unable to answer questions about what this arrangement brought. With this arrangement, there is no telling how many administrative fines will be pardoned by industrial enterprises and what will be the burden of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who are under Act 4924 and contractors working in local administrations and those who follow the conditions of the imam, deputy immaculate, and paralegal Koran instructors. However, there are no contracted personnel and MPs assigned to the staff, who serve under special laws. There are no 4/Cs who live most deeply in the victimology. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0301par0176	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit08spe0297par0177	You want the number of decisions enough? I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0297par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Article 2 of Article 2 has not been reached. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote electronically. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement be removed from the substance text, regardless of whether or not it is in accordance with Article 2 of Article 648, which is added to Article 2 of Industrial Register Act 2 with Article 2 of Article 2 of the 2 of the Law and Law. Izzet Cetin (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0302par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0297par0015	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0303par0016	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0304par0017	Mr. Engin Özkoch...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0297par0018	Engin Özkoç, MP of Sakarya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0305par0020	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, there have been nine pardons so far. Your nine pardons for the industrialists are valid...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0306par0021	Mali pardon.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0305par0022	Mali pardon. It's supposed to have a motive. When the AKP came to power, the production industry's share in national income was 18 per cent, and ten years later, it went down to 15.6 per cent. Turkey was ranked 13 in 1990 and 15 in 2000, and Turkey fell from the economic league in the world's top 15 manufacturing industries in 2010. In the past fifty-two years from 1950 to 2002, Turkey's total current deficit was $44 billion, increasing 7.5 times in the AKP's ten years to $333 billion. From 1923 to 2002, in seventy-nine years, the foreign trade deficit was $26.9 billion, while the AKP raised it to $587 billion within ten years. Dear friends, in Turkey since the beginning of multi-party life in 2002, the debt in Turkey has been 95 billion in domestic debt, while in AKP power, $134 billion in foreign debt was 130 billion; in AKP power, 207 billion was privatised; $8 billion in privatisation of $38 billion in AKP power; $542 billion in tax revenues, a total of $775 billion in the AKP's power. All of these accounts are numbers from government statistics. My dear friends, there was a loud noise in this House just now, and there was talk of coup, and there was talk of the blessings of power and the past. The point where you bring Turkey's industry in ten years is that this is what I'm talking about. The point where you bring the farmer in ten years is in the numbers I say. In ten years, the point where you bring democracy is the eyes, the bodies that are wounded, the people who are dying. Are you still going to do politics by talking about the past, a hundred years ago? Are you still going to ignore the people you killed in your power, the people you slaughtered, the industrialist you destroyed, the peasant you destroyed? As you still ignore Muslims who have been slaughtered in the Middle East, you're going to talk about rewarding your democracy by awarding the price you gave your cop to your people who were murdered in your own country? That's what you're gonna brag about?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0307par0029	Is that why you're with Esed?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0305par0030	My dear friends, if you're going to brag about this, I'm telling you that history will remember this decade as a black page for Turkey on Earth, and it will never forgive you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0308par0032	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0309par0033	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0310par0034	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0311par0036	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0310par0037	The motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0312par0039	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0313par0040	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0310par0041	I didn't hear it. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0312par0042	You'll hear it, call it in.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0314par0043	Of course you don't, since it didn't come into your account...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0315par0044	It's been three times, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0312par0045	Bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0316par0046	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0317par0047	I understand, Mr. Vural, but don't mind me saying I didn't hear.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0316par0048	Sir, we asked for it, it's in the transcripts. You may not have heard it, we don't know if you've heard it, but there are reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0317par0049	I'm saying I didn't hear it. I'll do whatever I can.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0316par0050	Look at the records, make your decision, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit09spe0317par0051	I'll take a five-minute break, then.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 478. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, it is understood that a sufficient number of decisions have been demanded before the motion is passed before reviewing the proceedings. In this framework, I will repeat the voting of the motion, according to the second joke of the 13th Amendment. Ankara MP Mr. Izzet Çetin and his friends' motion to vote for you, and I'll look for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor... Those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second amendment of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal be changed in the following way. It is dated 2 - 17/4/ 1957 and added the following temporary clause to Industrial Register Number 6948. "Second article 9 of this law does not impose administrative fines on those who do not register industrial enterprises from 1/7/2014 on whether or not they are active, regardless of whether or not they are active. The administrative fines, which have been cut by the time this law is in effect, will be revoked." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0318par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0015	Government?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0319par0016	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0017	I'm reading the reason: With this clause, an administrative fine of $500 is suspended if those who do not register industrial businesses on their industrial record within a year. It's a temporary pardon. However, no provisions for industrial enterprises, which had previously been fined, have been added to any provision. It is intended to be removed from the sentences which have been issued with a change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law 478 be replaced as follows by Article 2 and Article 2 added to Industrial Register Act 6948. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends "The administrative fine shall not be imposed on those who have not registered in industrial enterprises, regardless of whether or not they are active, who have completed the registration process from industrial enterprises to 31/12/2014, under Article 9 of this law, for those who do not register their industrial record." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0320par0027	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0028	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0321par0029	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0030	I'm reading the reason: Article 2 of the Industrial Register Act 6948 is required to be registered on the industrial record from the date when industrial enterprises began operating. An administrative fine is imposed on those who are not registered during the period. In order to register the entire industrial record of industrial enterprises, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology employs 81 districts. As part of this study, ensuring that the registration of these businesses is registered without any criminal transactions will contribute to increasing the number of registered businesses. It is intended to encourage businesses to register without administrative fines if industrial enterprises are registered but not registered in the industrial record.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0322par0033	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0034	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the motion is accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the joke "A" of the 478 rankings of the law proposed in the frame 3rd article "a"), it has been changed from three to five years (from four to six years) to five years (from three years to five years) in the joke "C" (from five years) and from six to eight thousand days (from six to eight years) in prison and up to ten thousand days in prison. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mustafa Erdem S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The third article of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal, which is currently held, "Those who play the fixed or common betting or chance games based on sports, will be punished with administrative fines from $1,000 to $10,000." "The workplaces of the crimes involved in this clause are closed with no notice from the chief of the site's largest property. The licenses of businesses with employment and employment licenses will be revoked within five work days by the authorized administration to issue a license on the notification of the largest property manager." Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık Hasip Kaplan Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added as the final joke in Article 5 of Article 3 and Article 7258, which has been changed into Article 5 of the Law and Act 478. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Aydın Ayan Ayayın Kazım Kurt İzzet Çetin İlhan Demiröz Mahmoud Tanal "Sports Toto Agency's one-year cut is distributed to amateur sports clubs, ll., ll., leagues and PTT league teams." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0323par0060	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0324par0062	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0063	I'm reading the reason: Competitive conditions are intended to be met. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The third article of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal, which is currently held, "Those who play the fixed or common betting or chance games based on sports, will be punished with administrative fines from $1,000 to $10,000." "The workplaces of the crimes involved in this clause are closed with no notice from the chief of the site's largest property. The licenses of businesses with employment and employment licenses will be revoked within five work days by the authorized administration to issue a license on the notification of the largest property manager." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0325par0072	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0073	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0326par0074	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0327par0075	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0076	I'm having it read. It is intended to ensure that administrative sanctions do not harm the business in proportion to its interest, and that the right of the person to benefit from its innocence is maintained unless the verdict of the criminal court is finalised. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0328par0080	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0081	I'm looking for enough to decide. Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between clerk members, I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0329par0085	Mr. President, our AKP friends say we should go home. Let's go home.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0087	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the joke "A" of the 478 rankings of the law proposed in the frame 3rd article "a"), it has been changed from three to five years (from four to six years) to five years (from three years to five years) in the joke "C" (from five years) and from six to eight thousand days (from six to eight years) in prison and up to ten thousand days in prison. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0330par0092	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0093	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0331par0094	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0095	Mr. Vural, any words on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0332par0096	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0097	I'm reading the reason: The prison sentence is increased for those who have a fixed probability of sports competitions and who play a common game of bet or chance, or who have a place or opportunity to play. Again, prison and fines are increased for those who mediate money transfers in connection with fixed probability or common betting or chance games based on sports competitions.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0332par0100	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0101	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's a disagreement between clerk members, I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Other than Article 4 of the 478 law proposal, which is held in the framework of 478, it has been changed in the form of the unions established by the institutions and organizations and by the members of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mustafa Erdem S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th amendment to the 478th amendment. We would like to ask that the statement of the president be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Çam Kazim Kurt İhsan Özkes Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the fourth item in the 478 Orders Numbered Law proposal be removed from the text. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık Abdullah Levent Tusel Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0333par0129	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0130	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0334par0131	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0132	I'm reading the reason: The use of the term "Divine" is a violation of freedom of thought and expression, which is forbidden only by the ministry, except by institutions and organisations. A word should not be in the monopoly of an institution because it is used in an institution, for various reasons or for preventing confusion. In addition, the urgent amendment to Law 663, where there are regulations for the Presidency of Religious Affairs, is not to be taken into the institutional monopoly of a statement under the name. The Ministry of Religious Affairs must be implemented not only in the interest of Islamic religion but in respect of the needs of all religion and beliefs in Turkey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th amendment to the 478th amendment. We would like to ask that the statement of the president be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0335par0141	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0142	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0336par0143	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0317par0144	Yes, Ihsan Ozkes, Istanbul MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0337par0146	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first and foremost, the intellectuals who were burned and brutally murdered at the Sivas Madimak Hotel on July 2, 1993. Throughout history, the Alevis, who have been burned, murdered, driven, humiliated, humiliated, unable to obtain human rights and rights, are constantly teaching mankind despite all this negativeness because their hearts are full of fear of God and of human love. Members of parliament, a religious mission, such as the pilgrimage fariza, which 1 million, 375,000 of our people have been waiting to leave, has become a game of chance if it comes to me. Concerning that this year's pilgrimage quota will also be below, has caused unrest to our citizens who will go on the pilgrimage. There must be a solution to these anxious waitings for the pilgrimage as soon as possible. The greatest pilgrim is our cross. Our pilgrims make the most expensive pilgrimage in the world. Pilgrims must be stopped from being the cream of Turkish Airlines. Hajj and Umra companies should not tolerate anyone who commits a small amount of fraud. A tourist pilgrim named Taiyib Tourism has defrauded our pilgrims. You know, it's been published in the press. Such scams must be stopped. Members of parliament, the government, which has repeatedly expressed its need for mosques in Salim, has closed the Aga Mosque on Istiklal Street for almost two years. The Agha Mosque is under the abuse of power. Is it necessary to prolong the restoration of the Aga Mosque to demonstrate the inadequacy of the mosque? He who pays the wages of churches and synagogues, who strives for the opening of the seminary, does not see the president of the religion, and his speech to open his houses to legal status becomes a wedge, as it does not show love. The real solution is the political, social, and democratic power that has strayed away from its opening, which surrounds the Alemi workshops with the Dianet blinds. Turkey has over 85,000 mosques. Just increase the number of camisoles across the country. It is a great injustice that the Cemevs do not have legal status. It's a shame that even martyr funerals in Cemevs don't include governors, governors, police chiefs, mayors. Is the sky going to be torn apart if there's a camisole opening in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? That's what's good for democracy. The Dianet, which devours the tax money of the Alekis, is listening to the words of the Alehis. Religion should not be the focus of dissolution, transparency, rights, lawlessness, waste, and corruption. Yavuz Sultan Selim, who butchered and killed the ruling Alekis, named the mosque that he had built next to the presidency after Ahmet Hamdi Akseki, who called the Alekis the Alekis, who called the Alehit. When he gives a fatwa, he looks into the prime minister's eyes when he should look at the Quran. While commenting at his own pleasure on the opening programme of Happy Birth Week, Prime Minister Kevser confirmed his joy in preparing the atmosphere of religion for political purposes, while the president of the Dianet applauded God's revelations. Some websites have an organization against those who criticize the President of Religion and Diet. These sites include religion, slanders for the name of faith, slanders for the name of God, and neighborhood pressures. I ask the President to investigate whether the religious authorities are involved with this network. Are they separate institutions, such as the chairmanship of the Ministry of Religious Affairs and ▪ The presidency? Is the purpose of this article to distinguish between the Foundations, unions, associations, to be able to use the word "Disciplinary" to our own people, and to others...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0338par0153	Give them back their mufti wages! You've been violated, you've been forbidden!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0339par0154	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0340par0155	Mr. President, are you voting on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0341par0156	A year ago, his wife was the son who played his daughter at the wedding. The deputy of Yozgat Mufti is still on duty.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0340par0157	Mr. President, vote for the motion, sir. I don't think this is going to end.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0341par0158	Even insulting people...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0342par0159	Thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0341par0160	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0342par0162	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Apart from the institutions and institutions and organisations and unions established by the members of the People's Ministry of Religious Affairs, it has been changed into the framework of Article 4 of the 478 of the proposed law. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0343par0168	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0342par0169	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0344par0170	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0342par0171	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0345par0173	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment of the bag of law. I salute you all with the most heartfelt feelings, love, and respect. In the near future, the month of Ramadan, which we're going to realize, is the beginning of our country, and then the benefit of the entire Islamic world, and the union and unity, and the end of the trial, and the end of the tears, and the minds of the rulers who run the Muslim nations, and my love and respect to all of you again. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as Turkish nationalists, we, as Nationalist Movement Party members, have always been at the service of religion, as well as of the religious one, as well as of our President of Religious Affairs. In all studies related to religion and religion in the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, we have always contributed and supported the laws that would make it the most important institution in the Turkish nation. After that, let no one doubt that we will be fully committed to carrying out this mission. Such an offer has been made, not to use the word "Dianet" for any other purpose, not to use it for personal gains, personal interests, political abuse. First of all, I want to say that if there are those who strike the Turkish nation with coups, those who break it up, those who come out of this nation, those who are in a hurry to divide and divide the unity and unity of the state of the Republic of Turkey, let's not forget that those who cause the most damage to religion, those who cause the most damage to the religion, those who cause the most damage to the Dianete, I regret to say, are members of its own. (MHP and CHP rows), I'd like to point out to you first: I've already submitted from this honored bench, which is known to you as a place of honor. Those who have always produced executives and religious services of our Dianet Business Presidents will always need to know what position they are in, what they're working for, who they're working for, please know what they're working for, and what they're doing, whatever they're doing, whatever they're doing, whatever they're doing, whatever they're doing, whatever they're doing, whatever they're doing, whatever they're doing. I regret to say how religious abusers, abusers of the Diet, exploit this sincere stance of the nationalist movement, and unfortunately, they are able to engage in smear campaigns for political voting. I'd like to bring to your attention that the distinguished representatives of our President of Religious Affairs, in line with the sensitivity of protecting the name of the honorable institution in which they are, at the same time, have to be sensitive and sensitive about the content of the Dianet institution and the health of the religious establishment. I regret to say that those who have marketed religion in Turkey, religious businessmen, who have made themselves leaders of religion, and who, according to themselves, have developed certain precepts, qualifiers, a number of circumcisions, have been trying to give this nation a new set of religious trends, a new set of perverts, religious characters that have modeled the world with the honor of the Turkish nation for 1,000 years. I would like to bring to your attention that our President of Religious Affairs, who feels as much as the name of the Word of Christ, who makes himself a martyr, who declares himself a prophet, and who wishes that this Muslim nation, in fact, should understand that religion belongs to God and that he is a servant of God, I salute all of you with the most heartfelt feelings.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0346par0182	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on Article 5: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence in the second sentence of Article 4 of Article 633, which is envisioned to be added to Article 633, under the framework of the Law Proposal for Amendments in some 478 Orders and Code of Law, we make a proposal to the General Directorate of the Foundations and to those who are left behind, except for those who belong to the real and private legal community and its institutions and the Treasury. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Gürsoy Erol Salih Firat Osman Look at your love Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Türkan Dağoğlu Congressmans, since the three motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions, make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or have them read their motives. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In view of this, we propose and propose that the 5th article of the framework of the 478 rows of law be removed from the proposal text. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mustafa Erdem S. Nevzat Don't Fear The signatures of the second motion are: Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık Altan Tan Abdullah Levent Tünzel İbrahimıcı The signatures of the third motion of the same nature: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Mahmoud Tanal İhsan Özkes Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0347par0217	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0346par0218	Government?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0348par0219	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0346par0220	İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0222	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm originally from Stocks. Tomorrow (July 4th, 1980) is the 33rd year of the Stocks. In the country, on Friday, before Friday prayer, just when the imams are going to go to the border, all the mosques of Corrum, Muslims, the Alevis are burning Aladdin Mosque, and they are shouting, "Come on. All mosques are coming at once. They take the rods, axes, prepared for the mosque courtyards that come out of the mosques, and they start to burn and destroy the Flame. In the end, according to official figures, 116 people were killed, hundreds were injured, jobs were looted, houses burned down, but the Alaaddin Mosque, which was said to have burned down, was neither burned down nor attempted to be burned down. I ask God's mercy for those who died in the events of Sivas, Kahramanmarash, and Çorum. Lawmakers have already withdrawn the proposal from the General Assembly following the revelations that three parties in the General Assembly had issued in the court's reports that the mosques and mosques on the treasury were handed over to the Dianet without any legal legislation and that 25 per cent of the revenues needed to be transferred to the treasury were transferred to a religious foundation; the item was again brought to the High Assembly, which was so complicated that it would bring the pagan back to him. The whole issue is to transfer the property to the religious and social services foundation, which is not given to its owner, to the national real estate directorate, which has been transferred to the religious and social services foundation, according to protocol for the collection of the religious revenues of mosques on public property, which are collected by the Diyanet for nearly 30 million Turkish liras. The mosque must be well-intentioned, built by institutions and individuals, and the High Assembly must not be used to such deceptions. The association, the foundation, the person, whoever owned it, did mosques, repair, maintenance, electricity, water, rug, rug, light bulbs, cleaning, equipment and equipment, and so on, and so forth, built and built places and toilets for the need to buy abdests. For example, the Jaferites do not want to be seized by a number of 300 mosques, shops and toilets in these mosques. At the end of the article, the same provisions are carried out on the revenues provided in the first joke and kept in the bank accounts. Are they also guaranteed interest in the Dianetin bank accounts? In other words, I'm being exonerated? Religion loves money, and when it comes to money, it doesn't care whether it's interest or not. What would the Prime Minister think of the way the Dianet Foundation and the Dianet Foundation would like to keep the help gathered abroad and abroad in the bank for a long time, and the interest lobby in this way? Also, if this clause is accepted, it will become Turkey's largest real estate and toilet operator.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0350par0224	That's a shame!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0225	What a shame! That's what happened. Write it down, write it down, will it or won't it?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0350par0226	You're talking about the toilet operator.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0351par0227	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0228	You don't understand. You're just saying Shame on you, sitting in front of everyone. The religion isn't satisfied with its enormous budget, it's not satisfied with the pilgrimage and the Umre trade, it's not satisfied with the cell towers built on mosques, it's not satisfied with the money collected every Friday, it's not satisfied with the Diet Foundation empire, it's not able to feed the Diet. It is supposed to be the main theme of the holy Ramazan month, which defines it as "hellal gain," "heal bite," "heal food," and it gives its tongue, it swallows its own salve! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, let the earth feed your eyes!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0352par0233	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0234	Religion doesn't lie, when you're investigating the Dolmabahce Mosque official...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0353par0235	Mr. President, take a vote, sir, will you wait for this?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0352par0236	Mr. Ozkes, please...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0237	...Milas is a ping-pong player at the mosque.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0354par0238	Time's up, time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0239	People of the AKP, look, look!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0355par0240	Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0356par0241	You are devouring the subject of truth.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0349par0242	There's tennis at the mosque, tennis. Is there tennis in the mosque in Islam? Speak up, will you?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0355par0243	Mr. Ozkes, we don't have that kind of procedure. Time's up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0357par0245	President, the vote is...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0358par0246	Look, look! Take a good look! Look, look, look, it's AKP's work, it's tennis in the mosque!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0359par0247	It's played, it's played, it's played, it's
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0360par0248	You're out of time. Do you have the fear of God?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0358par0249	Ya, ya, ya! Look, look, do you have the guts to look?
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0361par0250	If you vote, it's over.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0362par0251	Chief executives, please report to...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0358par0252	If that doesn't happen, shut them up! If that doesn't happen...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0363par0253	That's right, that's right, that's right.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0364par0254	You can't be so rude, Mayor. Do something!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0358par0255	You're being rude! Shut up!
tbmm-2013-07-03sit10spe0365par0256	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0365par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 129th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 478. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party's motion in the same way: In the context of the law, it is not acceptable for public conscience and donors to be transferred to the President of Religious Affairs for some of the proceeds of mosques, mosques, or Kur'an Courses, which are based on voluntary transfers to commercial activity, and that the control of these transactions is again under the power of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. An institution like the Head of Religious Affairs, which gets a share of the central budget, can never, ever get revenue. A structure that has already failed to provide the necessary services for all religious communities in the community, or completely out of service, and also claims the right to a share of the trade-open parts of structures made by association and foundations. The donations should remain your associations and foundations. The only authority to save on these donations should be the relevant association or foundation. While the Ministry of Religious Affairs has a high poverty and unemployment rate, a policy based on income has hurt the public conscience. I'm running the alibi on the other motion.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0366par0008	Mustafa Erdem...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0365par0009	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0367par0012	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise regarding the fifth article of the bag, and I salute you with love. Our mosques are being built right now. I want to express what the mosque means: a symbol of the beauty of the union, of the living, of Islam, of faith, and of religion. The mosques are a matter of unbelief, a matter of peace, a matter of unbelief. However, I would like to point out that our mosques today and yesterday are the works of those who wish to gain God's pleasure, and those who wish to leave a pleasant rest in this dome, and those who are poor or rich, and who can afford to spend for God's sake. Come, let us allow these holy places to continue to serve according to its purpose, and let us not ignore the issue of their consent. Not long before that, a proposal for the same law came in, but for some reason, our AKP political friends here withdrew the law. O Noble Messengers, if you follow the desires of Allah in the mosques, then surely the worldly life is better than the life of this world, and the life hereafter is better than the life of this world. So, first of all, let's know that no one has the right to at least turn the mosque into a political abuse and turn our mosques into a part of this abuse. Now, what's the point of turning over everything and trading the State, like all state institutions, as president of the Dianets? What's the point of bringing down the government's burden on the society of religion while acting in its logical way? If this was a really useful job, why did we vote at the last meeting to keep the House off the agenda, or why did we keep it a secret from the public if we did it wrong last time? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out to you that we've made a mistake: when the foundation is fit for the foundation's will, faith and trust. No power, no power, can find its own right to save the will of the foundation, but what right and right do we have to do that when it comes to such extortion, and in the name of religion, in the name of religion, in the name of the President of Religious Affairs? In the view we are facing now, there are such good services to ensure that the mosques are maintained at the point of perpetuity of the places that the sincere people have built, who do not need mosques, who do not need the government, who do not need the government, who do not need the dialogue. But regardless of what purpose, what purpose, what ideal, we have no right to save on them. It is not for us to take away their hoardings, and to spend them for other purposes. Let our Ministry of Religious Affairs leave these trusts to its owners, who will take responsibility to educate the community in religion and to enlighten them. In that sense, there are no statesmen, no state institutions, who carry out their mission in the transfer of authority to others. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0368par0020	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0369par0021	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-03sit11spe0368par0022	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
