tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Malatya MP Öznur Çukık, who asked about the day of the United Nations. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise because October 24th is the United Nations Foundation Day. I hereby salute the General Assembly. The United Nations, established on October 24, 1945 to maintain the security of world peace and to form economic, social and cultural co-operation in the international community, also has an important mission in the context of international organisations. The United Nations has established the foundation of its establishment as the basis of justice and security among nations, economic development and social equality, but has officially strengthened its importance to the right of life by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which the United Nations General Assembly adopted during its session in Paris on 10 December 1948. The number of members of the 51-member organization was 193. The United Nations has five permanent representatives: America, Russia, China, England and France. The founding member of the United Nations is based in New York, and outside of New York, where the UN is concerned about political and peace, they have thematic offices in Geneva, Vienna, Nairobi. Our country's assistance across the world and on the UN floor has significantly increased its appearance in the UN for years, with the attitude of the victim and the underdog. In order to consolidate this situation, the idea of Istanbul being transformed into a centre in terms of the UN has become one of the elements of our policy towards the UN, and we are still working to make Istanbul one of the major centers of the UN. In all the work we've conducted with the UN so far, we've seen behind us the support of Mr. Prime Minister, our Foreign Ministry and Development Ministry, and with the support of the United Nations Population Fund UNFPA Τ's Eastern Europe and Central Asia regional office has been moved to Istanbul, as well as the UN Development Programme's Special Sector Centre for International Development in Istanbul. In addition, as part of the study of the United Nations Gender Equality and Enforcement of Women in 2010, the UN Women's regional office for Europe and Central Asia was also established in İstanbul (November 2012), and we thank Mr. Emine Erdogan for their support. As a result of our intense attempts to turn Istanbul into a UN centre, the decision was made to move the East European and Commonwealth Community branch office in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia to Istanbul. It is also intended to host the regional offices of some other UN specialist organisations. We also continue to talk about setting up a centre where the UN could benefit from mediating activities. The United Nations, which has done such good work, unfortunately, remains silent and remains silent in the deaths, tortures, and deaths that have occurred today and recently in many parts of the world. He remains indifferent to what happened in Somalia, Cyprus, Palestine, and now Syria. As our Prime Minister has pointed out: either we will intervene with our language or if we can't do this, we will be furious. The United Nations is silent, watching human drama. The failure of the UN to set foot is a black mark on human history. It's never democratic, it's antidemocratic, to trap the UN (BN) between the two lips of five permanent members. Is this how the First World War will stand, as a decision taken in the terms of the terms of the conflict? Young people have launched a campaign that is greater than five. And I support this campaign. He said, Mr. Prime Minister. Yes, I'd like to call it clear from here that the honor of humanity, the right to life, is above all political and ideological ideas. No one can handle the killings in any part of the world with a moral or legal definition. He calls on the United Nations to work on the mission and vision of its early days, and I say the world is bigger than five. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to repeat one last word today, as I've been promised the United Nations Foundation Day. Tomorrow's the anniversary of the Yavi massacre. I curse the Yavi massacre once again, as I now believe to be left in this darkness and to be illuminated, as I now think of the chiefs, the Sivas massacre. I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Tokat MP Reşat True, who wants to speak about the problems of the province of Tokat. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0004par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise regarding the problems and expectations of the state of slap. I salute the High Council. The province of Tokat is one of the most beautiful, exceptional provinces of our Anatolian province. However, this beautiful province struggles with many problems, such as many parts of our Anatolian, and is moving rapidly toward dissolution and defeat. Every day, the people of the slap leave their city, their village, and migrate to other cities. Especially with the newly introduced Metropolitan Law and the decision to shut down 42 of our municipalities will drain the city further and reduce the population. The most important problem of our slap is unemployment, poverty, and poverty. People working in agriculture have suffered; producers on the plains of Kazova, Kelkit, Zile and Artova closed the 2013 season with heavy debt. Their debt to the private sector, banks, agricultural loan co-opters has increased, and hopes are left to another spring. The price of diesel, medicine, fertilizer is very high. The farmer is being crushed under high prices, almost giving up production. In the town of Tokat, next to the farmer, the animal manufacturer, the shopkeeper, the retired, the worker, and the disabled are also in a very difficult situation. The animal manufacturer did not find what he was looking for at this time of the Festival of Sacrifice, but also damaged the damage. As with the small tradesmen across the country, hyper and supermarkets have been crushed, starting to disappear. The laws of supermarkets must be immediately passed in favour of the tradesman's office in Turkey's Grand National Assembly and the victims of these people must be eliminated. In the slap, pensioners, workers, and civil servants are in debt and trapped in banks' clamps. With no money available in pensioners, workers, civil servants and farmers, money is not available in cash, and the tradesman is not able to do business and disappears. There is a heavy traffic problem at the slap, at the centre, at the crossing of the city. The freeway was in the wrong place, facing a landslide. The road will be rebuilt and the repair will be completed in the area of the lands. Sadly, it has not yet been completed. However, the city's traffic density is almost past and unbearable in its major cities. The circuit road repair must be made immediately, or the route must be changed and led elsewhere. In addition, the freeway must be made to travel from Niksar to Turhal, so the freeways must surround the province of Tokat. Members of parliament, Tokat-Niksar, Tokat-Amasya, Tokat-Sivas roads are unfortunately unfinished and unknown when to finish.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0005par0039	It's not over, Minister. It's not over.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0004par0040	We expect an immediate response from the Ministry of Transport. In addition, there are many problems in organised industrial areas in Tokat. There was no decent investment in Niksar, Turhal, Zile organised industries. In addition, businesses are closed in other organised industrial areas. Therefore, the province of Tokat must be restored in the incentive system, in the same class as the eastern Anatolian provinces, because some areas are further back than the eastern Anatolian counties or even their villages. Congressmans, the Tokat Airport is very inadequate. The study of the airport must begin again. The aprons must be added, the airport must be expanded, and therefore the large planes must be able to land at the Tokat Airport. In addition, the sugar factory should be removed from privatisation, kept open, not shut down like the Slap Cigarette Factory. Sugar and tobacco production must be maintained by the Tokat farmer, and those farmers must be taken care of. Members of parliament, although the province of Tokat is a tourist and cultural centre, it remains unclaimed. The centre of the slap can be introduced to the world, the capital of Danishment, Niksar, Sulusaray, Sebastapolis, Sunday, Ballica Cave, Erbaa Rooster Hill, Zile Castle. The University of Gaziosmanpaşa must be taken care of. Gaziosmanpaşa University is the apple of our territory. Our university is growing, it's lighting up. However, the government, especially the municipalities, must look after school and students, and grants must be raised in real terms. The province of the slap is located on the northern Anatolian fault line. In the past, there have been severe and painful earthquakes in this generation. Thousands of houses destroyed, our people dead, wounded. Therefore, earthquake-resistant testing must be done in all settlements, especially the official buildings. It hasn't been taken in a very serious way so far. You don't have to have a cataclysm or a cataclysm. I believe that the authorities will hear all of this, and they will take good care of our Tokat. Thank you, Mr. President, for your promise.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0006par0049	Thank you, Mr. Right. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Edirne MP Kemal Millerdereli, who asked for a comment due to events in ODTÜ. Here you go, Mr. Milldere.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0007par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to inform the Supreme Assembly of recent illegal practices against the Middle East Technical University, which I am proud to be a graduate of. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, Middle East Technical University has contributed and contributed irrefutablely to the development of our country, the well-being of our people, the scientific world, since it was founded with over 100,000 graduates and 25,000 students. In addition, our university has provided not only the means to raise important scientists, engineers, executives, but also the environment, freedoms, human rights and social rights. Our ODTU and other universities are guarantees of our future, which we are obliged to protect and support only by being cautious. Whether we accept it or not, we all owe it to the Cahit Arfs, the Kemal Kurds, the Merih Celasuns, the Mustafa Parlars and the Supremes. So, what is the government dealing with these days, ODTU, with the hands of local governments? WHAT has been happening in ODTU in recent days? Why was ODTÜ....the midnight raid, such as the trip, brought to life? I'd like to summarize our ODTÜ President's statement about the process of passing through ODTU land, the valued MPs. The ODTÜ development plan was announced to the institutions on October 2nd, and the plan was suspended on October 4th. Objections must be delivered to the Ministry by November 4th. On October 11th, the university, the Ministry, the municipality and state officials expressed their opinion that they would have objections, that there would be no action during the appeal period. Despite such opinions and correspondence, on the day of Eid, October 18th, without delay, the Ankara Municipality began to remove trees, just as the tents were burning down in the events of the Travel. Dear lawmakers, many of you may not be aware of this, and I'd like to share it with you. ODTÜ was one of Ankara's steppes in the 1960s, but then ODTÜ students, ODTÜ professors slowly began to grow ODTÜ. Then ODTÜ became one of Ankara's paradise corners, as you can see, but on the night of October 18th, it was turned back to the steppe with the successful works of this Melih Gökçek municipality. This picture explains the most beautiful sight of the violence that took place on the site of ODTU today. But, my friends, the ODTÜ administration says we're against road construction. The important thing here is to break into this land and destroy the trees with an unspecified midnight operation, an illegal procedure. Just like the trip, our people, our young people, are being brought against our police again. With this disgrace, the government and the local government will have to represent our country outside with reports of shame. Again, the law has been violated by the midnight raid. Is Turkey a law state or a banana republic? I call on the ODTÜ graduate ministers, the Home Secretary, and the members of the ruling party ODTU graduate MPs to prevent this illegality. Dear lawmakers, we stand before this mindset that does not know its tree, its young lives, its people, its mosque. We are followers of a leader who has managed not to destroy, but to build new ones on the old ones, and more than ever, I say that when we are in power, we will make a new Turkey grow on all your destructions. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0008par0064	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. President, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0008par0066	You want to answer. Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ, on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0010par0069	Bekir, you don't know how to answer that.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0011par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, Turkey's public debate over the way through the ODTU settlement has been taking place for a long time. Here, the tree massacre is done, and this is wrong, and this is how the law is broken. From here, both our mayor and our government are being criticised. Similarly, similar issues have been raised in events that have arisen in the past as an excuse for the moving of some of the trees in Tirana in Istanbul, under the scope of travel events in Istanbul. A number of political reckonings, a series of events facing the power of Turkey, some hiding behind trees, in the shade of trees, and in the widow, presented such a scenario, and we know the owners of this scenario very, very well. In the past 11 years, our Turkish government has experienced major changes in all areas in the way our government has demonstrated, and in the matter of treeing, it has also experienced huge changes and transformations in the environment. You know, when natural gas was in only nine provinces of Turkey, many of our districts were met with natural gas, as our governments were delivered almost to the entire provinces of Turkey during their time, and in this way, significant steps have been taken to ensure that the environment is cleaner, air pollution is off Turkey's agenda. Again, in the time of our governments, we have taken another historic step that protects our forests through this coal distribution and contributes a great deal to the development of the victims, families, even villages, and the use of coal to stop the forest that our citizens cut down to meet the needs of our forests, as well as the need for winter wood. Although this is critical, I'd like to point out to you here that this distribution of coal is an extremely important aspect of protecting our forests and protecting the environment.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0012par0074	What about the forest of Sarıyer, Minister, the forest of Sarıyer? A million and a half trees were cut down.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0011par0075	Of course, I'd also like to point out that in many parts of Turkey, there is also gardening activity. Our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs has made a statement, and our Prime Minister has expressed it, and I would like to make it clear to you that around 2 billion seedlings were planted in Turkey during this period. In Turkey's forest map, the environment and green understanding are fixed by the number of changes and transformations, and beyond that, with forests emerging. However, while municipalities are working to increase green areas in terms of urbanism, our central government is taking steps to make some investments, of course. If you're going to build an airport, if you're going to take a road, if you're going to build a school, if you're going to do another public investment somewhere, if you're going to do it again, taking care of your people's needs and demands, then you're going to take steps on it. Of course, we'll look out for the public's interests as we step forward, but we'll all look out for the best. Could there be trees along the routes? Maybe. As a matter of fact, there are divided roads and highways going through many forests. If you're going to go that way, you have to take steps to expand the areas that this road is going to go through, otherwise you can't go through it. If tunneling is necessary, then tunnels can also be made during the time of our governments...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0013par0077	The duration of the appeal is not expected, Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0011par0078	The largest tunnels in the history of the Republic were built during our governments, and our people are now using these tunnels both on the Black Sea coast road and on the way to Istanbul and on many roads to our country. When you want to build a school, if you don't have an area other than there to do this school, of course you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it, and you're going to do it. That's the need, and we'll do it. Sometimes it turns out that the place where the road was made is also a tomb, and we know that it was done by moving the bones of the dead there to other areas. We also know that many municipalities take similar steps at different parties. If we bring samples of this here, we all know that a lot of municipalities from the CHP and MHP are both AK PARTY and BDP have saved in terms of municipal services in areas where there are green areas, or rather, trees. This is as far as they've been done by bringing them to the table. There's no need to enter the race. But it's done if it's needed, but if we want to exploit the services that are being taken on green, exploiting people's sensitivity to the environment, creating other policies from there, creating opportunities to beat up power, government from there, then we've made a big mistake. The debate is ongoing about ODTU (ODTU). Now, I have a newspaper from Ankara. It was ODTU who did the killing, he says. I'm looking at what they did. Now, the Chancellor is making a statement after a statement. I wonder if he's afraid of the law, or if he's afraid of other people, which I'm curious about. Now, the convention center is built, look, right inside the green area. Parking lot, green area. The mall, the mall, they put it on its feet for the mall, the mall, the mall. Tennis courts are built. Now, over there, I don't know if you can see it, but there are houses that have been cut down.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0014par0081	Did they do it in the middle of the night, sir, in the middle of the night? Did they do it in a raid?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0015par0082	Lies!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0016par0083	It's the AKP's publishing body.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0084	Look, I don't know the exact number of trees here, but they've been cut down by dozens of trees, and they've been made a residence for teachers or others in ODTÜ.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0018par0085	Mr. Bozdağ, that's like a witness to a grizzly.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0086	If you say where the new road goes, you know where the road goes. There's not a lot of distance between the city and ODTÜ, but it's the ODTÜ governments that have slaughtered the original green, that are building the green, the teachers, or other people, the malls, the convention centers, the parking lot, the tennis courts, and they've taken these steps so far.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0019par0087	Was it a raid on the holiday night, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0088	I wonder now, where were those protestors when this mall was being built?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0020par0089	They weren't green fields, Mr. Secretary, they weren't green fields.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0090	Wasn't that consciousness then? Who built these tennis courts, these mansions into the ODTU? Of course the ODTU did.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0021par0091	Weren't you the government then, where were you?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0092	So, have you heard any news about these in the past, in the public community of Turkey? This isn't today's work. I didn't hear it, so if anyone can hear it, then let them say it. Of course, the work that is now in ODTÜ is a legal work.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0022par0093	Mr. Secretary, there is an appeal until November 4th, November 4th.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0094	It's the work that's been done since the preparation of law enforcement came to a point. Now, Canal Istanbul will be built, we won't make it. We won't build a bridge, we won't build a third airport, we won't.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0023par0096	They're past stories. Leave him alone, don't read past stories.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0097	Then we can't nail Turkey. Every service you do has a touch of the environment, and every service you do has a different dimension of the tree and the green. Turkey now has dams all over Turkey, Turkey needs energy. Although we have doubled Turkey's energy needs during our governments, Turkey needs to increase it more than one floor in its 2023 targets.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0024par0098	The dams you've built, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0099	So, aren't we going to build the dams under the trees, because there's trouble around here?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0024par0100	Name a dam.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0025par0101	You're doing it with HES.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0102	Turkey needs everything; the environment needs it, the green needs it, the forest needs it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0026par0103	The law is the need, Mr. Secretary, and the law is the need.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0104	But when we're looking out for all these needs, when we need to take steps, if there's a conflict of interest somewhere, then we're going to take the right step for the nation, preferring the highest advantage. We're not going to stop taking steps for the good of our nation and for the benefit of our nation just because someone's protesting, someone's trying to create anti-government over an unorganized organization. Turkey's roads will be done, airports will be built, parks will be built, tunnels will be built, high-speed trains will be made; no one will doubt that. If anyone's uncomfortable on these roads, they won't cross the road.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0027par0105	Don't let that cross your father's field, and don't let that pass.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0106	Now, Marmaray, you know it's over. On Tuesday next week, Marmaray will be launched with the participation of presidents, prime ministers from other countries and with the participation of our President and Prime Minister. We experience the pride, the pride, the pride of carrying out a project that Turkey boasts, which Abdulhamid, Sultan Abdulmecid, has taken his first step after a period of 120 to 22 years as the government of the Republic of Turkey. We do this by digging tunnels under the sea and raising our country's reputation and prestige. Now, I hope the third throat bridge ends in 2015. There's another tube pass next to it, and then there's land transportation. High-speed trains, trains, trams, and land-carts. By the third bridge, Istanbul will also relax traffic, and Istanbul will relax. Now, what would have been the point of traffic in Istanbul if we hadn't taken these steps? We all went to the holidays. By the time I came from Yozgat to Ankara, our valued citizens who were using it knew very well that crossing Elmadağ would turn into Chinese torture. When you fall in the back of a broken truck, they say, "I burned linen candy." You're ruined, you're ruined. If we hadn't put new roads next to Turkey's roads, called divided roads, developed and strengthened the standard of these roads, moved the trees to other places where they crossed, and traveled through them, today's holiday visits would have turned into separate tortures, separate intolerance, separate problems. We have taken steps to comfort Turkey. Look, now the Istanbul-Izmir highway continues. Hopefully, the route to Istanbul-Bursa will end in 2015, followed by the end of the route to İzmir. The road is civilization, and no matter how high-quality you make these roads, you contribute to both the enjoyment of travelers and the comfort of traveling and the security of lives and goods to our country's economy. That is what we used to do. We'll do what Turkey needs. You see, there are public institutions in the middle of the city, public institutions, and they're not effective in both the safety of the service and the ability of service, and they're not effective here, and they're not right. So decisions are being made, and we're taking steps to move them elsewhere, to do them better, to do them better, and to put them in service in a way that is in the best interest of our people. If we don't take these steps, then we'll lock our cities up, block development, change in cities, the wrongs of the past, or the fact that cities are the right people, and we'll allow the existence of issues that have come to a wrong place today in the face of the growth and development of the environment. For him, it is necessary to work the road that continues in ODTÜ, but all of the work that goes on elsewhere is in the interest of our nation, it is in the best interests of our nation, and we do it not in an arbitrary way but in violation of the law, but in accordance with the law.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0028par0111	Mr. Secretary, you entered the machines before the deadline, so it was until November 4th. Don't!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0112	See, one of the most concrete examples of the sensitivity we show to the environment is in the context of events in the division. What did the Prime Minister say? After the interview, we said, "We're here to do what the court says, if he says don't do it, we won't do it."
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0028par0113	You didn't comply with the court order in ODTÜ!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0017par0114	But look, if the court says it's in accordance with the procedure and the law, then let's go to the public and follow the Istanbulan's decision. It's a sign of sensitivity, of sensitivity. Those who don't know the law don't refer to the court's decision, to the will of the people, but to those who don't know the law when the law is enforced, by force, by challenging the state, it's their duty to show them who is the state and who is the law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0029par0117	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0030par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0029par0119	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0030par0122	Sir, Mr. Secretary ODTÜ has given very bad information about the events, or rather the way they passed through ODTU. I'd like to make a statement to make it into the record. The ODTI Protection Development Plan, approved by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism on the road requested from ODTÜ, has been suspended, and its suspension period must end on 4 November 2013 to be finalised. So, unless the plan is finalized, the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality can't get through here in any way, the problem is here. Mr. Secretary says everything is legal. No, it's not legal. This road may be needed, this road may be necessary, but without the knowledge of ODTÜ presidency, a midnight operation, holiday vacation...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0031par0124	The president knows everything.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0030par0125	...by crossing the university, which is the problem with Ankara Metropolitan Municipality entering here in a way that shouldn't be in the state of law, that's the problem. In addition, Mr. Minister is the ODTÜ administration, which is anti-green, and he says, "It's a number of constructions that the president has done on ODTÜ land." Mr. Secretary, thank you for your sensitivity in that matter. Are you trying to tell me there's some sort of irregularity in those constructions?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0032par0128	No, no, it's about green, where trees are being torn out.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0030par0129	If you don't want to say it...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0032par0130	It's not buildings that have been there since the beginning of ODTÜ.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0030par0131	If that's not the case, I present to you the enormous blocks of the Prime Minister who destroyed and destroyed the Ataturk Forest Farm. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0033par0134	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Now, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0034par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express some particular complaints from our district. There was a dam built within the borders of Tekirdağ Province; the Multial Dam. The land of many villagers in Malkara districts and Sharköy districts of Malkara districts has been nationalized, but our villages, who are victims of these nationalized lands, are unfortunately unable to benefit from the dam watering. The villages of Sofuköy, Yayaaç, Yeniköy and Gölcuk are in the district of Sharköy; the village of Malkara is not available for watering the villages of Emirali, Ballı, Esendik, Çırdere and Çınarlıdere. The victims of these villages are huge. The government must find a solution to this issue, to address the victims of the villages as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0035par0141	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0036par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Pelitli, Gebze district, in several villages near the organised industrial area, the property -- the rightful owners -- is owned by the treasure -- is being put on top of those who do not live in the village by the village chiefs and their relatives -- they are getting both the state and the treasure are being damaged, and they are getting one for themselves. I'd like the authorities to be more sensitive and take a look at it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0037par0148	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0038par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. There have been many car accidents all over our country due to the Festival of Sacrifices, our roads have turned into a pool of blood, dozens of our people have lost their lives or have been injured. With the drivers' attention, road construction takes a long time in some places. Some intersections and roads are also full of very dangerous curves. The General Directorate of Highways and the relevant ministry must review all of these roads and take precautions according to it. A person's life can't be judged in any other way. I believe the Highways hear them and say they do what they need to do, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0037par0153	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0039par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. The council at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism gathered each year for support for private theatres has reflected ideas not to help theatres that support travel actions. Some officials, including Genco Erkal, Ferhan Sensoy, and Levent Kırca, mention the names of some opposition theatres in particular. As a result of the discussions, it is also said that full consensus has not been reached. Is this claim true? Has the board discussed the possibility that opposition theatres should not be funded or made less than others? Is this a new embargo of your art? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0040par0159	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0041par0162	Thank you. Sir, in accordance with Article 83 of our Constitution, there is an open sentence in Article 83, which states that if the MP is convicted of a crime he committed before or after the election, the decision will be postponed to the outcome of the election, after the parliamentary term. However, today, two MPs -- Mr. Engin Alan and a member of the BDP -- are in prison, although our friend has been convicted. In my opinion, according to Article 83 of the Constitution, these friends of the Speaker of Parliament must be brought here immediately... so that the terms of their imprisonment should be over... but if he brings them to the House and reads them in Article 84, he will end his parliamentary power, another, but until then they must remain out of prison. Just now, and Bekir Bozdağ here said some very unnecessary, unrealistic events in his own way. I mean, even though in Istanbul, there was a decision to stop the march in the Gezi events, by order of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the destruction of those trees in Salam would continue... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he says we respect the court order.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0042par0167	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0043par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the birth anniversary of the great poet, Veysel. The last and greatest representative of bards from the tradition of the people's bards, from the tradition of lovers, is Veysel the lover, with respect and mercy. Next year will be the 120th year of his birth. I'm calling from here to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, to the Minister. I propose that he declare 2014 as the year of Love Veysel -- the year of the birth of Veysel in love -- as the year of Veysel in love -- and arrange a series of events in memory of him in this frame. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0044par0173	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0045par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in regards to my comments on the recent Supreme Court's sledgehammer case, the government's spokesman, Mr. Hussein Çelik, has accused me of using my name as well as of bringing conflict into the army. I want to be very honest with you that there is no one who has the right last name and goes up the mountain and puts a bullet in a Turkish soldier. If Mr. Steel is looking for enemies of the army, he should look around himself. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0046par0179	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0047par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has left, Mr. President, but Mr. Secretary should know that this is not an act of cutting down trees, this is an unlawful attack on ODTU. Mr. Group Vice President has also announced that on October 4th, the zoning plan has been suspended, it has not expired, and the plan is on hold, and then the trial period will begin. A night raid was carried out on ODTÜ (ODTÜ) before all these transactions were expected. Mr. Minister of Law, this movement is legal. It is not for him to say, it is not for him to say, I despise him. If Mr. Mayor wants to build a new road for Ankara, he must stop making the existing roads obsolete. At this time, the distance between the ODTU and the Conium Road is 2-2.5 km. Here, our AKP MP friends also see what kind of buildings, what kind of buildings are being built. 30-story buildings are made without notice. In fact, a municipal building was built on the inside of the road. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0048par0186	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0049par0189	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Turkey's foreign policy hasn't been doing well for a long time, so it's the disease that's been producing, consuming in our region. In recent days, especially the citrus harvest has begun. Our local narcissist was usually sold in Iraq, Syria. Now, with this Syria, the market of the narcissist doesn't exist because Iraq and security, customs security, commercial security can't be provided. The government, the authorities, the ministers, the interested ones, whatever they have to do to make this narcissistic market happen, it's like saying, "This is a state of war." It's the government's primary duty to prevent it, to ensure road safety, and we'd appreciate it if they'd be interested. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0050par0192	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0051par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Bozdağ has told you, he has broken the slogans and gone. I wish he was here to listen. Sir, here we are, making our way, the road is civilization. Here, we're building third bridges and bridges. It says. Mr. Minister, I ask you this question: how many million square feet of land did your party take from the third bridge, from the third bridge, from Poyrazköy, from Kemerburgaz, from Newköy, from Durusu, from your party? Again, how many million square feet of land have the companies, the contractors, gathered near your party, how many billion dollars of rants been provided? Explain these things to the public, and let the people see, are you, in fact, serving the people by making the way, or are you thinking of the interests of yourselves and your followers? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0052par0198	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0053par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. The lack of drought and irrigation facilities in the villages of Gölecik, Karasu and Kırans in Bursa Karacabey district has not been provided sufficient efficiency in tomatoes and corn products due to the withdrawal of subterranean water. Will the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, who never turned his face to the southern Marmara region, instruct the Karacabey District Directorate to examine this distress in these villages? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0054par0204	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0055par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow at 12:30 p.m., under the leadership of the Republican People's Party, İzmir province group, the Izmirites will meet at Bornova Tree Road and express their reaction to the sale of road property. In İzmir, these days, the AKP government, the ministries immediately privatised all public lands and put them on sale. These green areas with the city's lungs, land like the highways, State Waterworks, have been set up for sale, with much increased plans, without privatisation of the land and privatisation of the land in Buca. They have left no room to set foot in the city of Maviyaka, and have given it to the people of Tokyo. 1,200 acres of mera in the heath are now earmarked for one year free of charge to Gülsut, where he has invested in the villagers, and is now earmarked for forty-nine years. These public lands are in the cities...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0054par0210	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0056par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the government and ruling party, their mouth of authority is making black propaganda from the most competent mouths. They accused us of following the trial of Sami Mentesh, the youngest arrested journalist in the world, while Sami Mentesh was not a member of the terrorist organization, but a arrested journalist from the Republican People's Party. How did he find out he was under false arrest for months? At the first hearing, the prosecutor said that Sami Mentesh had to be released and tried without arrest, and the court agreed. After that decision, government officials were still able to bring Sami Mentesh's name together with a terrorist organization, but while he was following a case, he was wrongly arrested in pursuing a demonstration. We bring this to the attention of the public. Trying to do so is to defame the name of this young journalist, who has been wrongfully held, to play with his future. We invite everyone to be conscientious about it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0054par0215	Thank you, Mr. Special. Finally, Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0057par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Union Progress Report, as you know, was announced at the festival; government officials have shown it to be disrespectful to religious values and have made intense criticism. On the second day of the festival, representatives of the same government entered ODTÜ, with a large team of mayors, and the ODTÜ land was looted. Do you consider this looting disrespectful to religious values? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0058par0221	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The pollution and pollution of the River Ergene, which has been subject to many scientific research over the years, are often brought to public attention. Studies have found that cancer prevalence in Çorı is above the Turkish average, and that even primary school students are now seeing cancer. The water flows from the River of Saroz, which is born of the Black Sea Mountains, and is poured into the river Ergene, which is poured into the Gulf of Saroz after crossing through Pehlivanköy, Babaeski, Lüleburgaz and Longöpru. The Ergene River is Turkey's dirtiest river, and it has been identified by the relevant ministry, which includes very dirty water in the 4th grade, but so far has no definitive solution been developed. Heavy metals in the river move to animals, plants, and humans who touch and drink this water and cause cancer in humans. Scientific study results conducted by Thrace University to study and identify the effects of the river on human health have shown that cancers and other diseases have been increasing in Choor, especially in people living around Chorus Creek, which passes through the Healthtown area. In particular, the health of the people living in the Health neighborhood, where about 70,000 people live, is in grave danger. According to Article 56 of the Constitution, "Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment." It's called. However, now the number of people who have died is increasing because of the pollution of the stream, which has been detected by scientific research. For all these reasons, we respectfully present the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the effects of pollution on human health in Ergene and Corporate Creek. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 3) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 4) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 10) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 11) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 15) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As for the measures that should be taken through the construction and delivery of social donuts and housing projects by the TOKİ in our country, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be carried out on the grounds of Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Slap]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 5) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 7) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tekirdağ]] 9) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Kayseri]] From its establishment, the most important institution in our country for determining and implementing housing policies is the Law No. 2985 in 1984, with the exception of the general budget, with special funds and autonomy structure, established under the name of the Prime Ministerate's Department of Public Housing and Public Partnership, and its main functions are to meet the planned demand for fast-growing housing in Turkey and to stimulate the economy by encouraging the housing production sector in Turkey. The administration's powers and working areas have increased with the transfer of the property bank's activities outside banking to the TOKI. In the beginning, weaknesses in control and management functions have arisen because of the successful production of housing and the beginning of the construction of social facilities outside the dwelling and the opening of the entire country. Since the agency is producing land on treasury land, it costs a very small amount of land, and in exchange, it sells at high cost. As for the dwellings built by TOKI, the quality of construction is still largely lacking in the houses that were delivered, which were not completed in time. It's very difficult for our people, who are already in a difficult economic situation, to have high entry fees and installment payments. It is reported in public that some of the contractors have failed or are in a very difficult situation because they have not earned their dues. In addition to the sinking of some of the contractors, the firms they worked for have also failed, and many tradesmen providing supplies for the housing sector have been victims. It is considered to be investigated by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the removal of the economic woes of trade and contractors and rights owners in this situation, while contributing to the more thorough work of the TOKI. That's what our research proposal is for. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary study be opened under Articles 104, 105, 105, of the Constitution 98, and the Constitution 98, with the purpose of raising religious officials, improving the levels of prosperity, and improving social and economic conditions. 02/04/2012 [[Elizipt]] [[Lug]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Antalya]] 10) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Yozgat]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 20) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] It is an important necessity for religion to be accurate in maintaining the healthy and balanced development and development of our society, in maintaining individual happiness, in maintaining social integrity, unity, and unity, in the spiritual collapse and unrest of man and mankind. In the accurate understanding of religion and the fulfillment of it, the clergy have great responsibility and responsibility. The economic and social status of religious officials must be improved and the levels of prosperity must be increased. In this way, religious officials must be saved from false implications that exist in society, and they must be given the proper value. Religious officials are on duty during the day. In particular, those who serve in rural areas must respond to citizens' religious needs at every hour of the day, without permission, but if they find a replacement, they can use their annual leave of absence. The Law No. 6002 shall also organise regulations on the weekly leave of Imams and muezzin-sponsorships and their holiday vacations. Although additional payments have been made to some public officials in Resolution 666, there has been no increase in the salaries of the imams. This must be changed and their salaries must be improved, and the graduates of the Bible's staff must be allowed to take the exam abroad, as did the graduates of the seminary's pre-license and theology faculty. To start with the major cities, every guesthouse and other social activities should be established, and its property should not be taken from the mosque and the Koran school housing staff and Koran instructors. Contracted personnel must also be allowed to benefit from the rights granted to staff staff in appointment and replacement, to be assigned chief staff to district mufti, which has at least 60 personnel, and 15 students for additional tuition in summer Koran courses must be removed. A mosque official's authority and responsibility for the help gathered in mosques must be defined, a special arrangement for the workings of mosque associations, Muftilik and officials must be made, the Koran courses should be given electricity, water, internet, telephone allowance, and the costs of mosques such as maintenance, repair and cleaning should be covered by the state. In our country, whose population is 99 per cent Muslim, it is certain that better and healthier education in religion is vital for religious officials to be truly taught about Islam from superstitions. "The education and education of religion and morality are carried out under the supervision and supervision of the state, " states Article 24 of the Constitution. Learning your religion through this clause is a right for citizens and a duty for the state. It is best for Muslims in our country to learn their religion under government control. In addition to the control of the Qur'an and circumcision of our officers, those who will take over duties such as the imam-religious, muezzin-kayim must be taken to the faculty level, especially those who are responsible for their sound beauty, professional and personality credibility, moral examples, and moral weaknesses should never be allowed. High Islamic research centers should be opened on the level of research that can review people's religious needs based on primary sources, follow the issues and studies around the world, meet religious education, and address people's religious needs, and provide solutions to their questions. For better learning of Islam and Islam, we propose and propose that a parliamentary study be opened and conducted under Articles 104, 105, of the Constitution, in order to improve social and economic life levels, in order to improve the education of religious officials, in order to improve their material and spiritual distress. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a review of the results of the foreign audit reports from Turkey's Grand National Assembly and the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Court in 2012, and I will have them read and present to you: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to the Law of the Executive and Control Act No. 5018 and the Executive Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 6253, the Foreign Control Report on the spending of the Grand National Assembly in 2012 and the Court's Foreign Control Report on the Court's spending of 2012, the answers of the Supreme Court on October 3, 2013 were also discussed, and the results of the additional reviews were decided to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. It's for your information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Court's 2012 Foreign Control Reports Review Results 1) The Court's External Control Report on 16/09/2013, organised by the Court expert inspectors appointed to oversee the financial audit of the 2012 financial year of the Turkish Parliament, states that the funds assigned by the Central Management Budget Law 2012 are being reviewed as to whether the spending documents provided by the spending units are in accordance with the laws and other legal regulations set up, as well as the fiscal statements, balances, and credibility issues. During the study, the cost figures shown in the 2012 ruler and tables were recorded correctly and equally, and the sums were correct, equivalent and consistent, and the accounts agreed with each other. The budget's estimated number of available grants has been audited through a sample of the relevant legislation of the spending documents based on the figures, which have been researched to determine whether investments in the programme are being carried out, compared with the exact results. The start-up grant of 2012 was $651,252,000, and was $589,083,227, along with transfers and additions in the year. As of 31/12/2012, $570,009,740 has been spent, or 96.8%. According to the economic rating, the allowance for employees has been spent 99.9 per cent, the social security institution has been spent 99.6 per cent on bonus costs, the current transfers have been paid 98.1 per cent, allocated to purchases of goods and services has been spent 91.4 per cent, while some investments have been reportedly increased by 76 per cent this year. The amount in the accounts where the payment order documents and accounting transaction receipts have been recorded are agreed by the head of the TBMM strategy development presidency, The amount of revenue costs shown in the precise account statements is correct and equivalent, without spending on the grant, The senior executive has made an effort to monitor the functioning of the financial management and control system envisioned in Law 5018, and to use effective, economic and efficient public resources given by budgets, and to take the necessary measures to ensure that these transactions are carried out. The spending authorities, the officials and the members of the Ministry of Strategy Development have taken action in accordance with the procedures and fundamentals envisioned in the legislation provided to organise spending documents and conduct financial transactions. It has been expressed. Admissions on advance/credi transactions must be carried out during the time set in the legislation, In payments on service purchases, the signing of the rating boards that form the claim report and drink forms made up of these rulers are signed by the control agency, The board of examinations and admissions is formed from at least three staff members, Adding tax receipts for tax transfers to the tax office during the rights payments for service purchases, In order to organise a business programme in terms of contract provisions in service purchases, and to carry out the purchases of services within the framework of the organised business programme, An accurate assessment of the principal amounts to the cost account during the preparation of about the cost. Establishing a business programme during the application in terms of contract provisions based on hiring an employee, the number of employees assigned in the employment programme for months, assessments and recommendations have been made. In this framework, the upper executive response to the external auditors' audit findings and proposals is taken into consideration; As mentioned in the case of the case, the advance is in accordance with a month period specified in Article 35 of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, In 2012, when the information and control of the control agency discovered that the rating boards were only signed by the contractor, the rating boards were also signed by the contractor and control agency, and the application continued the same way. The examination and acceptance process was carried out by three staff members as of January 2, 2013, and the application was carried out in the same manner, following the discovery of the adoption of the examination and admissions commission by two personnel. "There is no tax debt" from the Internet Tax Office module and the institution code given to the Foundation by the Chairman of the IRS during the claims. The document was printed out and added to the payment certificate, as well as "no tax debt" from the relevant tax office. that the document is not required, Under contract provisions, the necessary attention and care will be shown in the matter of organizing a business programme, determining the need for the work programme and the implementation of service in this framework, There will be the necessary attention and care to regulate the cost-cost calculators, Under contract provisions, the necessary attention and care will be shown regarding the implementation of the employment programme and the employment agreements, depending on the number of workers set for months in the employment programme and the implementation of service contracts. The appropriate measures will be taken as part of the proposals expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. The Foreign Control Report on 25/07/2012, issued by the Ministry of the Interior, which has been appointed by the Ministry of the Turkish Parliament to oversee the external audit of the fiscal year accounts of the 2-JEE Presidency in 2012, has noted that the expenditures and rights of public resources, which have been used economically, effectively, and efficiently, have been addressed as part of the grants assigned to the Central Management Budget Act 2012, and that the expenditure documents provided during the use of these funds, are in accordance with the laws and other legal regulations. The Court's Presidency budget in 2012 said that $143,399,473,47 euros were earmarked, that 130,497,384,60 euros were spent, and that 75 per cent of the budget grant, which was earmarked in 2010, was spent in 2012, and 91% in 2012. The agency's payments based on payment order documents and accounting transaction receipts and bank statements are agreed, The income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, without spending on the grant, The Supreme Court's chief of staff has made an excellent effort to ensure effective, economic and efficient use of public resources given by the budget as the top executive, to oversee the functioning of the financial management and control system, envisioned in Law 5018, and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities provided by the Court. The spending authority, the executor, the head of the financial services unit and the accountant have made a maximum effort to implement financial legislation and implement the necessary measures, The administration's financial activities, decisions and transactions are conducted within the scope of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018 and other relevant legislation, It has been expressed. Indicating that some accounting transaction receipts are not included, the care of the evidence documents to be attached to the accounting processing receipts, Some of the payment orders were "checked and approved." Noting that the column has been left blank, the authority has not been signed, it is carefully noted that the signatures of those in charge of signing the payment orders are in order of their responsibilities. Accounting receipts are "checked and approved." Noting that the column is not signed by the person in charge, the prepayment must be taken into account that the signatures of the authors are signed by the person in charge of their responsibilities, In preparation for some purchases of goods and services, there are indications that there is no proper care involved in the preparation of about the cost, while in accordance with the legislation involved, the care of realistic research and computations is being done. In the process of conducting tenders, it is often observed that there is often a ceremony, even that there are multiple decelerations in some tenders, that the preparations for the tender should be carried out more meticulously. Indicating that certain tenders have not been edited during the duration of the tenders, it is important to refrain from similar practices that may cause the administration to lose time and resources and cause responsibility for those involved, While signing contracts of some tenders, there has been changes in the tender document, while the tenders are tied to the contract, making sure there are no changes in the tender document, Some tenders carried out by open tenders, with the only willing involved, but with indications that the tender has been finalized, the tenders should be taken care of to ensure the participation of more than one willing person. assessments and recommendations have been made. In this framework, the upper executive response to the external auditors' audit findings and proposals is taken into consideration; The report said that accounting transaction receipts were not included by the accounting department because they contained records of accounting work and transactions, but that there was no shortage in an accounting transaction receipt, and that the appropriate care would be shown in the following applications. In accordance with the relevant legislation on employee paybacks, the pre-fiscal control will not be submitted, and the payment order on the costs of attending courses will be sent to pre-financial control, and the following applications will be taken care of. The accounting receipt will not be subject to pre-financial control, and will be taken care of in the following applications, since there are only documents available on the basis of the allowance payment of personnel, and there is only a duty document in it. As the cost was set, the firms were also sent with the unit price table, along with the technical requirement for their routes and distances, so that they could offer them information on their routes and distances. In some tenders held in 2012, the procedure to regulate the zeyilname will be in accordance with the legislation, but will be taken care of in the following applications, in accordance with the recommendation in the report. The report said that the zeyilnam in the tender file was organised for technical reasons stemming from the Electronic Public Imports Platform (ECAP). The payment clause of the contract draft was envisioned as a sari payment for years, but the preliminary fiscal control review made a necessary amendment to the payment of the contract on determining that this issue is not in accordance with the legislation. The tender was held in open tenders according to Article 19 of the Public Contraction Act 4734, so the tenders were taken care of to ensure clarity, competition and transparency. The appropriate measures will be taken as part of the proposals expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. It has been presented to your knowledge.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0059par0458	Mr. President, sir, I'd like to bring up a matter regarding this statement of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been submitted to the information of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0058par0459	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0059par0460	Now, the agenda of the General Assembly, its information, is the issue of the spending of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0058par0461	I'll give you my word. Your position, please.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0059par0462	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0058par0463	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0059par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to bring it up a little bit about the Parliamentary Office statement presented to the General Assembly's information, because it's a very important document that we're talking about. Now, in addition to Parliamentary Presidency, this is a report covering the results of Turkey's spending of the Grand National Assembly in 2012 and the audit of the Court's expenditures in 2012 according to the relevant laws. The report is called the external audit report. The concept of external control is defined in Article 5018 of the Law on Financial Management and Control and Law on Law 6085. In external audit, inspectors monitor the expenditures of the institution in accordance with legislation. Furthermore, these reports are also required to include performance indicators as part of a strategic plan and should be assessed if these performance indicators are being followed. From what we've seen from the reports, the audit results aren't exactly in this document, in this report. For example, the Court's expenditures indicate that some expenditures have been determined in violation of the legislation. The tenders say the terms of the tender have been changed by arranging the charges after the tender. Although all these are accepted by the relevant institution, they are not given detailed information about them. In which tenders have been issued in violation of procedure and regulations, and in which terms have been applied, the institution has done what it has done, whether the treasure is damaged or not. These assessments have not been made. The Court shall grant the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, it's important.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0060par0472	Auto-activated, sir. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0059par0473	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm picking it up, sir. The Court is an institution tasked with overseeing public spending, state spending, on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It is obliged by governments to monitor whether the budget rights are being used properly by governments. The Court, along with the Final Accounts Bill of 2012, did not send audit reports to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, along with this bill being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission in accordance with the concept of the Court's expenditures. This report is a non-budget report. I'm warning the Speakership about this report. This is not the way the external audit report should be conducted when it comes to the Turkish Parliament and the Court's expenditures. But perhaps the Parliamentary Presidency can make a statement:...counttay has already violated its budget rights, has not sent the reports to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that need to be organised, has given no indication. My report is much better with him. He might say so. I can understand that, but it's not enough to cover up or conceal the law done by the Court. It's not enough to cover the lack of Parliamentary office in these reports, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0061par0479	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. There is a review of the extension of the Commission's mandate of the main Parliamentary Research Commission, which was established on the purpose of the Research of Social Peace Ways and the Evaluation Process (10/576,577,578). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the decision of our Commission, which began its work on 08/05/2013, at its meeting of 10/10/2013, I respectfully submit that its mandate should be extended a month from 25/10/2013, according to the second joke of Article 105 of the Grand Assembly of Turkey. "The commission, which failed to complete its investigation within three months, will be given a month's deadline." The Commission has been granted an additional month according to its provisions. There is another thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; I will have it read and presented to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Assembly of the European Parliamentary Assembly of Security and Co-operation, the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Co-operation Council, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, the Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, the Parliamentary Assembly for Asia Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly for Economic Co-operation Agency, the Parliamentary Assembly for Southeast Europe Co-operation Process Parlamenter Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly for Islamic Co-operation, the Parliamentary Association for Islamic Co-operation, the Parliamentary Assembly for Islamic Co-operation, the Parliamentary Assembly for NATO Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly for the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly of Southeast Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's European Union Karma Parliamentary Commission [[Turkey-EU-KPK]] Haluk Özdalga (Ankara) AK PARTY Ali Şahin (Gaziantep) AK PARTY Halide İncekara (Istanbul) AK PARTY Sevim Fighter (Istanbul) AK PARTY Mehmet S. Tekelioğlu (Izmir) AK PARTY Lightning M. Ramazanoğlu (Heramanmarash) AK PARTI Pelin Günş Bakır (Kayseri) AK PARTY Cem Hard (Connia) AK PARTY Cigdem Münevver Ökden (Mersin) AK PARTY Faruk Light (MUR) AK PARTY Abu Bekir Secretider (Nevşehir) AK PARTY Afif Demirkeran (Sirt) AK PARTY Nursuna Memecan (Sivas) AK PARTY Şükrü Ayalan (Tokat) AK PARTY Ercan Candan (Zonguldak) AK PARTY Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu (Istanbul) CHP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu (Izmir) MHP Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKP) [[Noble]] Reha Tester (Ankara) AK PARTY Mevlüt Sergeantoglu (Antalia) AK PARTY Tülin Erkal Kara (Bursa) AK PARTY Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh (Istanbul) AK PARTY Pyle (Sacharia) AK PARTY Akif Çağatay Sword (Samsun) AK PARTY Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar ( Şanlıurfa) AK PARTI Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan (Ankara) CHP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh (Ankara) MHP Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (AKP) [[Backup]] Burhan Kayaturk (Van) AK PARTY Haluk Özdalga (Ankara) AK PARTY Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç (Isparta) AK PARTY Ali Şahin (Gaziantep) AK PARTY Ahmet Berat Çonkar (Istanbul) AK PARTY Mehmet S. Tekelioğlu (Izmir) AK PARTY A. Emin Önsen (Channeurfa) AK PARTY Mehmet Emrehan Halici (Ankara) CHP Metin Lütfi Baydar (Adın) CHP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu (Izmir) MHP European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliament Assembly (OSITPA) [[Noble]] Sait Azba (Afyonkarahisar) AK PARTY Spiritual Elegant (Aksaray) AK PARTY Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) AK PARTY Abdullah Çişkan (Kırşehir) AK PARTY A. Emin Önsen (Channeurfa) AK PARTY Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu (Kayseri) CHP European Security and Co-operation Agency Parliament Assembly (OSITPA) [[Backup]] Tülin Erkal Kara (Bursa) AK PARTY Mohammed Cetin (Istanbul) AK PARTY Osman Love Bak (Istanbul) AK PARTY Osman Coffeeci (Karabuk) AK PARTY Vural Cantaloupe (Kütahya) AK PARTY Mediterranean Parliament Assembly [[Mediterranean PA]] Menderes Türel (Antalia) AK PARTY Vural Cantaloupe (Kütahya) AK PARTY Tafik Ziyaeddin Akbuut (Tekirdağ) AK PARTY Unity for the Mediterranean Parliament Assembly [[AIBPA]] Ali Ercoshkun (Bolu) AK PARTY Nevzat Pakdil (heromarash) AK PARTY İdris Şahin (Chanting) AK PARTY Zeynep Karahan Nice (Shanliurfa) AK PARTY Edip Semih Yalçın (Gaziantep) MHP [[APA]] Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu (Bursa) AK PARTI Rise From Self (Mugla) AK PARTY Ercan Candan (Zoguldak) AK PARTY S. Usar Ayata (Ankara) CHP Economic Co-operation Agency Parliamentary Assembly [[EITPA]] Fahrettin Poyraz (Billy) AK PARTY Mustafa zucchini (Konya) AK PARTY Nusret Bayraktar (Rize) AK PARTY == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Southeast European Co-operation Process Parliament Assembly [[GDAU]] Syed Hardness (Ankara) AK PARTY Tülay Copper (Samsun) AK PARTY Lütfi Elvan (Karaman) AK PARTY Haluk Ahmet Silver (Fishesir) CHP The Parliamentary Union of Islamic Co-operation [[ISIPAB]] Emrullah Business (Ankara) AK PARTY Orhan Atalay (Ardahan) AK PARTY Cem Hard (Connia) AK PARTY Black Sea Economic Co-operation Parliament Assembly [[KEIPA]] Mehmet Necati Çetinkaya (Adana) AK PARTI Adem Dessert (Grees) AK PARTY Kamalettin Aydın (Silverhouse) AK PARTY Enver Yilmaz (Istanbul) AK PARTY Zayid Aslan (Tokat) AK PARTY Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) CHP [[Noble]] Ali Reza Alaboyun (Aksaray) AK PARTY Mehmet Vecdi Gonul (Antalia) AK PARTY Ahmet Berat Çonkar (Istanbul) AK PARTY Ismail Safi (Istanbul) AK PARTY Mohammed Cetin (Istanbul) AK PARTY Osman Love Bak (Istanbul) AK PARTY AK PARTY OF THE FABULOUS PLAYER Mehmet Emrehan Halici (Ankara) CHP Metin Lütfi Baydar (Adın) CHP [[Backup]] Cahit Bindier (Sorum) AK PARTY Murat Yıldırım (Sorum) AK PARTY Favourite Mountaineer Scream (Erzurum) AK PARTY Rise From Self (Mugla) AK PARTY Pyle (Sacharia) AK PARTY Zeynep Karahan Nice (Shanliurfa) AK PARTY Ercan Candan (Zonguldak) AK PARTY Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan (Ankara) CHP [[PAB]] Murat Yıldırım (Sorum) AK PARTY Favourite Mountaineer Scream (Erzurum) AK PARTY Hakan Hallelujah (Istanbul) AK PARTY Mehmet Satın (Heromanmarash) AK PARTY Sevde Bayyet Runs (Heromarash) AK PARTY Fatma Nur Serter (Istanbul) CHP S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) MHP Turkish-speaking Countries Parliamentary Assembly [[ENGLISH]] Haluk Silk (Ankara) AK PARTY Gülter Güzel (Ankara) AK PARTY Mustafa Atash (Istanbul) AK PARTI M. Mujahit Nuts (Malatian) AK PARTY Original Toptan (Zonguldak) AK PARTY Kadir Gökmen Öğün (İstanbul) CHP It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and vote, and I'm going to make you read: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The conference on "The Counttay and Parliament Relations" will be held in Montenegro on 18 November 2013, and will be submitted to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Establishment of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, under the 9th Amendment of the Turkish Parliament.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0062par0682	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit01spe0061par0683	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0061par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 9th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The two votes of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's statement failed to reach enough decision-making. Now, I'm going to re-offer the notice to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, and there is enough to decide. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 24/10/2013 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 23 October 2012, it was given by the Deputy Chairman of the Bingöl Group İdris Baluken (1683 rows no. lu) was suggested that after the Van earthquake on 23 October 2011, the negatives experienced by Van citizens should be read to Van during Thursday's unification of talks in the same date, in order to investigate the outcome of Turkey's aid to the Grand National Assembly, before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. In your favor, Sena Kaleli... Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0063par0019	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party in favor of the BDP group proposal. In the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is one of the world's leading countries in terms of the risk of earthquakes. 42% of our country's face measurement is above the first-degree earthquake belt. It's a fact that some of our major cities are built on first-degree earthquake zones, where more than half of our population lives in these areas, and statistically, every two years, there's been a devastating earthquake disaster, but for some reason, hundreds of people lose their lives in each new earthquake, thousands of people are injured, homeless, and left to suffer even greater destruction due to unsolvable governance. The last example of this is Van. Thirty-seven years ago, warnings were not taken into account that the energy buildup by scientists, which experienced an earthquake of 7.3 in 1976, could reach dangerous dimensions and be broken at any time. So Van was not included in the building control system that was introduced in 19 pilot cities in 2001, nor was public buildings included in the building control system. On the other hand, there has been no step in controlling the standards of building materials in the 1998 Earthquake Rule. As a result of all these neglects, the disaster of 2011 was often invited. And as we come to this day, these neglects and insensitivitys are seen to continue to be transformed into victims of earthquakes in their own terms, because even after two years of earthquakes, the earthquake victims are suffering psychosocial problems from the earthquake, and the work, housing, health, education continues to have serious problems. Mr. Sezgin, I'd like to share with you my observations as a member of parliament who frequented the Van. Precious lawmakers continue to bleed from the earthquake and AKP's partisan practices and their policies that turned the earthquake into an opportunity. The people of Van, who have suffered a frequent underground disaster, are now facing an underground-based AKP disaster. According to official figures, 644 people were killed in the Van earthquake, while about 3,000 were injured, 28,000 structures were unusable. However, in the following period, thousands of our citizens have suffered severe, severe traumas as pregnant women have dropped their children, as thousands of our citizens have been trying to live in tents in harsh winter conditions. This is what is happening today. There was no water in the TOKI until before the feast of the sacrifice. Despite all the help from abroad, the government, which claims to have mastered everything, has been condemned to live in primitive conditions, let alone earthquake survivors, with its uncooperative, transparency. It was then handed over to the uncontrollable power of TOKI. In the region, the pre-school education system has failed. The proof of this is that the YGS exam was one of the most unsuccessful cities in the world. The tradesman has drawn the flag of bankruptcy, the buyover has fallen. The citizen was shaken twice as soon as the rents and dues were doubled in homes that seemed undamaged. Thousands of people had to emigrate because they couldn't find a warm place to stay and a job. The fighting between families has begun. During the first April 23rd celebrations after the earthquake, the governor of Van came and eased our troubles. The Prime Minister's laughter during his home delivery ceremony on October 23, 2012, in Ercish, left a mark on the memory of the victims of the earthquake's victims as a gift as if he had mastered the photograph of Jonah, who died in the earthquake. The government has made the victims of the earthquake victims a victim of their political accounts. Even humanitarian campaigns launched in the name of brotherhood and as one heart have been transformed into the PR (profession) of businessmen. Promises have not been fulfilled. The state mentality and the understanding of the AKP, which considers human beings portable, available crowds, and the understanding that uses and uses spiritual values, the depth and philosophy of worship. So etiquette, knowledge, and notation weakness have brought forth material values and quantity, and the measure of human value is tied to matter. The feelings of our people's solidarity and cooperation have been erosiond after what happened in this earthquake. Even the shelters of 200 families who are still struggling for life in containers have been coveted, and the epidemics that will create unhealthy conditions are also ignored. Patients, disabled, elderly, pregnant are in need of care. The can is cooked. Our children can't go to school because they can't live. Overlords bring citizens to their feet instead of spotting the property in place. The citizen is not being scanned for health care. Electricity and water were still cut to force the victims of earthquakes in four containers still struggling to survive. Where are these rush evacuations being made to send empty containers? Social areas such as the mosque, the playground, the study hall have been removed. Some families who have been taken out of containers with the promise of rent assistance are complaining that they cannot receive the promised help. In spite of unsanitary running, some citizens who have even agreed to containers go on a hunger strike to avoid being removed from this place are shameful for the government. In his speech in Erciş, Prime Minister promised that the Vanians would not leave the winter cold alone. Another year passed, a new winter is on the threshold, and the Vans are still without shelter. There's still no countermeasures in the low-damaged buildings. In the second earthquake in Van Goshen, 40 of our citizens were killed in an irresponsible statement by the Minister of Environment and Urbanism. While the wreck of the Bayram Hotel was being removed, the people who wanted to speak to Bashir Atalay, who had gone to the head of the wreckage, were involved with batons and gas bombs. The people waiting for a tent in front of Van Ferit Melen Airport were sprayed with water in that terrible cold. The AKP government couldn't even tolerate minimal humanitarian reactions. You live in places like Saray. Journalists who pass on the Vans' demands and responses have been likened to the devil. So the pressure against the press could not be heard. The ruins of the buildings may have been removed in the van, but the government was quickly overwhelmed by the wreckage. Life - style, economic development, which ignores economic conditions, is also causing problems in all the provinces, including Van. On this occasion, all of Van and Ercish wish their people well again, expressing that we are always with them, saying that we are in favor of the BDP Group proposal.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0064par0034	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Against you, Van MP Conqueror Coupler. Here you go, Mr. Couplesman.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0065par0038	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute your committee. First of all, in the second year of the Van earthquake, I wish God's mercy to our 644 fellow citizens who lost their lives, and my condolences to their relatives. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. On October 23rd and November 9, 2011, we had two major earthquakes, and 644 of our citizens were killed in these earthquakes, 250 of our citizens were pulled out of the wreckage alive. Immediately after the earthquake, rescues began very quickly. Our Prime Minister and ministers arrived at the earthquake site within a few hours, and the work was coordinated very quickly. On the same day of the earthquake, nearly 3,000 rescue teams arrived at Van and Ercish, and the work began very quickly. In the meantime, I would like to thank all members of the political party in the Supreme Assembly, especially our Prime Minister and our Government, for their support for our entire nation. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the natural disaster that took place on 23 October and 9 November in Van. It was a major disaster, and it directly affected about 700,000 of our people. In the process, our government has mobilized all the resources for Van, and our beloved nation has never left Van Nah alone, and the population has reached 75 million with this disaster. From the early days of the earthquake, 75,000 tents were sent to our province, distributed, and tented cities were formed to seek temporary shelter very quickly. After that, over 30,000 containers were manufactured in accordance with seasonal conditions and transferred to Van and Ercish, 31 in Van, 4 in Ercish, with all the infrastructures of the container cities. Our citizens of the earthquake have been placed in these container cities. About 175 thousand people have lived in these container cities. In addition, the social facilities of all public institutions and institutions in our country are also reserved for our citizens, according to our government, under the orders of our Prime Minister, and more than 58,000 citizens are welcome here. In the process, the energy costs of the container cities amounted to around 170 million by our government. Mr. President, despite the cold winter conditions, the foundation of permanent dwellings in Van and Ercish on the 39th day of the earthquake was laid down, a total of 17,471 dwellings were built in Van and Ercish headquarters, and 15,342 dwellings were handed over to their owners in the first year of the earthquake. In the process, other dwellings have been completed and delivered to the rightful owners. The costs of these dwellings are set by AFAD for two years without repayment, 20 years without interest. In the same way, the villages of Van and Erciş have 9,937 village houses, 3,750 animal shelters. Some of these are very important, and the rest are still working. With these dwellings, 27 mosques, 34 schools, 24 trade centers were completed in the area of TOKI, and Van and Ercish were offered to serve. Forty thousand people living in low-damaged dwellings have been supported for 50 million euros, no subsidies. The village homes have been paid to build 274 million, 572,600 euros per person. In the process, the decisions made by our great Parliament have been postponed to 1+1 years without interest in the SSC and tax debts. Our businessmen have been given 300 million lira loans through KOSGEB, which is about 5,500. During this period, loans to trade bail co-ops have been delayed by a year without interest, while loans to other public banks have been given a 60-month chance to restructure with no interest for six months. These loans, given by KOSGEB, are of zero interest, with a year of nonpayment and a total of three years of repayment. In the process, our farmers were provided with 65 million Departments of Agriculture with bait support as a grant. Again, through the job, social support projects were provided to bring warm bread to our people's homes during this period, bringing a hot mountain, providing employment under the Social Support Project of 7,200 brothers in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Van and Ercish have planned geologic ethics and zoning to meet the 40-year planning of both municipalities without distinction. The most important thing for Van is that he spent 130 million dollars on drinking water from 47 kilometers by our Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, the State Department of Water, and the Van TOKI dwellings are being watered. Again, 50 miles [45 km] of Van central water network was renewed by the ilBANK General Directorate, which welcomed the grant of AFAD. In this way, instead of 1,015 classrooms damaged in education, 2,613 new classrooms, teachers' homes and secondary schools were held in Van Province. Education investments continue very quickly. Again, in this process, no brother or sister of ours has been deprived of the right to education, and every effort and effort to train continues. In this sense, our brothers and sisters in container cities are also provided for education. The University of the 100th Year received Van at a more powerful university, with a new academic staff of 300, which has been renovated by the transfer of a very large funding. Again, after the earthquake, in our province of Van, 7,360 people were built into high education homes with capacity; this is the highest housing capacity ever built in a province in our country. Public enterprises and institutions in Van have been restructured, efforts have been launched to move regional directorates out of Van. Their construction is under way. In addition, the service facilities of other public institutions are being built very quickly. Van has been established as the region's health base, the 650-bed Van Education and Research Hospital and Centennial University Hospital opened before and after the earthquake, and seven new hospitals have been made in the central district. Hopefully, within this year, in 2014, these will be completed, and Van will be the region's health base, especially at the health point, without any problems. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the investments and expenditures made by the Van....after the earthquake....are over 5 billion. In the early hours of the earthquake, the Prime Minister and our government ministers personally followed the coordination work and never left Van and Ercish's people alone. Our Prime Minister Van. He's visited four times so far, and if God grants it, he'll be in the districts of Van and Ercish on the 26-27th of October. Our government ministers, who were in charge of co-ordination, were never separated from Van, and almost every day there was a minister representing the government during the process, and a vital contribution was made to quickly resolving the problems. Honorable MPs, in this process, our government has always been on the side of Van Nahl and Vanlı in this natural disaster. Turkey has become a country that is appreciated by the United Nations and international disaster administrations by its efforts in the field of search and rescue and disaster management, which is the supreme achievement of our government and our beloved nation. There has been a disaster management far too different to compare to the failures of governments in the past. Our government has denied any opportunity for Van and has done all kinds of work on time and continues to do so. Van and Ercish, with the work that was done in Van, are being rebuilt, with public institutions and organizations, roads, housing, education institutions, health and transportation investments, and Van is moving to the future with confident steps and building a more powerful Van than ever before. In this process, the good lawmakers had more than 175 thousand people in our container cities, and our locals were in residence. There are about 250 families in the container that have been separated from container cities, as well as our rights owners and other citizens and families. For this reason, Mr. Governor, it has been made clear to Mr. Secretary and AFAD that their rent will be paid by the governorate and the AFAD in case they have any contact with or if they go to rent. It has also been announced that the possibility of working for 98 families who do not work will be provided through İSKUR. We know their problems and follow them to the end, and hopefully we'll follow this process to the solution. In addition, the valued lawmakers have assigned 1,000 homes in our government, which are left over in Van. In the same conditions as the earthquake victims, the tenants have been shot and some have been processed, and some have been processed. Dear MPs, an earthquake is a natural disaster. Despite all the work that's been done, there may have been shortcomings. We also do all kinds of work at the point of solving these flaws. Our citizens of Kadirshinas know and see very well who is doing what, who is working for politics, who is working for the service, and who is very well and knows it. For ten years, our EC PARTY, which has bravely solved all the issues of society and raised the country, has taken important steps to strengthen our brotherhood in Van. May God never cause our nation and our country this pain again. This process has shown the unity and unity of Turkey and has set an example of an exemplary contribution to the world. With all these feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation, expressing that we are against the motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0066par0063	Thank you, Mr. Couples. In his favor, Aldil Zozani, the Hakkari MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0067par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, it's been two years and a day since the Van earthquake, and in these two years we've been trying to talk about the Van earthquake and the tragedies left over from the Van earthquake, and we're trying to talk about them, and we're trying to bring them up on the agenda, but unfortunately, the government is getting up here and they're just doing dry propaganda and ignoring the tragedies that happened there, and they're ignoring the troubles that happened there. As he ignores it, Turkey begins to tell the public different things in the form of a different painting. I'd like to ask, if there were no problems with Van, if the victims didn't continue today, why have the victims been on hunger strike for sixty or so days? There must be a reason. You can't just go out and say that the BDP provoked them, led them on a hunger strike, encouraged them. There's trouble in the middle. Why? As the dwellings were not built, as promised to the victims of these earthquakes, as they were not delivered, they are on hunger strike today because the containers that were built from all over Turkey with the help of our philanthropic people from all over Turkey are being taken to Van. Why don't you express it? Mr. Farmer, why don't you express yourself? Why don't you tell me that the people in the containers in Van have been removed and taken to Malatya and assigned to refugees from Syria for asylum seekers? It's easy to draw a pink table: we're there every day, there's no problem... we don't have to tell you, you admitted it yourself, you've been delayed, there's too much loss of life from neglect, the government has expressed it, we haven't expressed it. We're asking now: people have been on hunger strike for over sixty days, and we're making it very clear why. Since the containers in which those people lived have been ripped out and taken to Malatya, they will now have to spend the winter living in summer tents or other cities. We made a council. You say you don't dare go and see the people who live in that dwelling. Since he'll be in Van the Prime Minister in the 27th, I suggest you go with the Van MPs, go to those quarters. I suggest you meet with the people who live in those dwellings, I suggest you meet with the people who are on hunger strike, listen to their language, listen to their problems, I suggest you do so. You've planted dry concrete there, dry concrete has been planted there by TOKI, but none of these houses have solved infrastructure problems; some have no water, some have no sewers, some have no electricity. How did you finish the dwelling, how did you deliver it? From the Van earthquake, all the people of Turkey have a lesson to learn, a conclusion. That conclusion is that Turkey will see the work of the EC PARTY government there. What is it? How to trade from people's traumas, how to trade from those traumas, Turkey's public opinion learns from the EC PARTY government. By causing an earthquake, the Van earthquake caused the destruction, causing the Van people to become customers to the state from seven to seventy, and to the TOKI. You build a dwelling, you sell it to a citizen. You sell it for free or you sell it for cost? No, you're making a profit, you're selling it to someone who has money. You've done well in the trade of the earthquake. You're the ones who've been providing political gains, not us, as a sign of the brotherhood of Turkey. You've calculated its political gain, its ramifications very well. Now, the paint on that painting you polished is starting to come out, the truth is coming out. We've been saying here for two years, see, after the Van earthquake, you approached Van after nearly six months of the law that you brought up, so you didn't approach Van with the current earthquake law, and six months later you approached the issue according to the law that you would bring to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. From the very first day, you had to declare Van. Each time, we stated, you answered according to the pattern in your head in the law that was to be passed, which was not passed; no, sir, if it was declared a disaster zone, it could not have been nailed. There was no such thing in the law, but there was no such thing in the law at that time. He came in May, you brought the law in May 2012, and then the truth came out, and you were basically talking about the law that you were going to bring back, and the public didn't know it. It's expressed: water was brought to Van. For God's sake, how dare you say that? Van City brings water to Van. You don't pay for it. You don't pay for it. You don't pay for it. You don't pay for it. You borrow Van City, you provide loans, and that city brings water to its own city. That's what's being given to Ankara City Hall. The city of Istanbul may be given what it is available, under whatever circumstances the loan is given, under the most difficult conditions provided to the municipality of Van. Now you come out and say, "Ya, we brought water to Van. Don't dry the water at Van. Don't bring the rest." You dried the water out of Van. You've made a citizen a client of the state; you've made a client of people whose children are dead, crippled, victimized. That's your only skill in the Van earthquake, you've done well in your trade. Give me the bill. Now that 5 billion dollars have arrived, get out of here and share it with the public. Where's it all been spent? I'll give you a few pens: the governor has been built a luxury palace. The government currently owns a glass house in Van. What kind of money was it made with? It was done with relief for the victims of the earthquake. There's a much thicker police department than there used to be. What money was it made with? It was made with earthquake money, with earthquake relief. Is there anything else? You can't. The dwellings you have built have not been more than a year since the dwellings you have built by the TOKI, whose paints have been spilled, the tap has rotted before the water is connected, and you have sold your profits to the citizens. Now that we're talking about it, it's coming up all the time... oh, I'm sorry, it's October 24th, two weeks later, November 9th. He'll be on the agenda again, on every occasion. This is a problem that we're going to bring up as long as these victims don't go away, and we're going to look you in the eye and we're going to share the facts with the public. There's a tragedy in Van. People have invested their bodies in hunger to make their problems visible to Turkey's public opinion. Not for a political purpose, but for a house to put their heads in. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In fact, not even their homes, but the containers that had been taken to the van with the help of earthquakes before, put their bodies to hunger, so that they might be given back what was taken. You need to see this truth. Don't go out in a year or two and offer your condolences to Van.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0068par0082	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0067par0083	Apologize for the destruction you caused on the first day. From that day forward, apologize for not doing anything to solve the problems of the people of Van.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0068par0084	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0067par0085	Indeed, if the members of the EC PARTY want to see the truth, they will vote in favour of this research proposal that we have submitted to the Parliament, and we, along with you, will go with the other members of the opposition party, and we will see the truth of Van. I salute all of you with the hope that you will accept it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0068par0088	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can against the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0069par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I declare myself against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0070par0094	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0069par0095	After the earthquake, the prime minister has visited the van four times, and as of this weekend, he plans to visit again, which will be the fifth time. This shows the Prime Minister and the government's interest in Van Naha, their sensitivity. We, of course, don't want to thank the AK PARTY governments and the AK PARTY for what they've done to Van, but to ignore what they've done to Van, as the preachers of the opposition have expressed here, we didn't expect anything more than gratitude, injustice, remorse. What has been done here has been an example to the world since the earthquake, and the world has appreciated this organization, but what we see here today is that the Peace and Democracy Party and the Republican People's Party, unfortunately, have done nothing but exploit the earthquake and trade the earthquake. I'm asking the Peace and Democracy Party, for God's sake, you're in power in the local administration, get out there, explain to me what you've done with the earthquake.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0071par0098	Mr. President, he picked on me, and I'll answer later.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0069par0099	What did you do, other than occupy the House with group suggestions, to set the agenda, to exploit the earthquake here, to unfortunately exploit the actions of our Vanite brothers, to exploit them, to exploit the victims of the earthquake, to trade them? For God's sake, come and explain it here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the other hand, the Republican People's Party orator came out here, and he used a statement like this, my friends, and he said: "The government is trapped under the earthquake. There is indeed a situation under the wreckage of the earthquake, and that is your mental state. Because in 1999, the government was trapped in the Marmara earthquake. Although days passed, the government and state failed to arrive. One of the partners of that power is the mentality that you have, which is known as your extension, and the citizen knows it and appreciates it and doesn't bring you to power. Now, Van MP knows my dear brother Van Van the Conqueror better than we do, he knows what's been done to Van, and he's told me here, and I don't want to get into them too much. Now, you're going to come up here, you're going to bring up the earthquake with group suggestions; bring it up, we're going to look at your reviews, of course we're going to follow if there's any flaws, as a government, but you're going to have to count what's being done. Friends, I'd like to point out that the cost of 4.5 quadrillion dollars, as of the 2013 budget, is greater than the budget of 13 ministries. What does that mean? That means Van and Ercish have been rebuilt and renovated. Here, the minister of the Peace and Democracy Party said: "Sir, you have removed the containers here, you have taken them to Malatya. Of course we have removed them because there are no citizens left in the container, we have assigned them new dwellings. We also assigned the containers to our brothers from Syria. Weren't we going to do that? Now, the Van earthquake is such an earthquake that, my friends, it's affecting it with the power that 37 atomic bombs produce, it's causing trauma. In an earthquake like this, 644 of our citizens are unfortunately dead. We wish our citizens God's mercy again, our condolences to their relatives. Of course, as long as you bring this up, we're here to offer our condolences. We are the people, the people who believe, and it is a duty for us to express these feelings after the dead. The government should first be grateful for the sensitivity and organisation of the Van earthquake, which is the government from a government that didn't arrive at the scene for days during the 1999 Marmara earthquake, which immediately arrived at the scene of the Van earthquake, even with more than a thousand search and rescue teams, ministers and deputies, and governors and public officials, who have arrived at the scene of a major organization. From a government that couldn't give a citizen a tent in one year to a government that built a 75,000 tent city in 18 days in a Van earthquake. Friends, a government that couldn't give a tent a year in the Marmara earthquake gave 17,000 permanent dwellings in the Van earthquake. That's why these people love this power, folks. A government that has built container cities, mobile cities, permanent cities, about 4 quadrillion, as I've just said, in the 2010 budget -- which has invested as much as the budget of 11 ministries.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0072par0106	It was 13, just now!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0069par0107	Adeta, who renovated Van, and Ercish, the whole world appreciated this organization, and sent delegations here to find out how we did it. In order to implement the perfection of the organization in the event of a disaster in their home country, they have requested these inspections and these reviews from our governments. Mr. President, in the most powerful countries in Europe and in the world, even in the United States, you have to appreciate the government's understanding of ending the earthquake, the organization and developments in the scene of the incident, and its decision-making, the persecution of our citizens.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0073par0109	God bless you!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0069par0110	Now we see here that opposition parties are even exploiting the earthquake. I understand opposition parties, there's nothing they can do, but, for God's sake, in the earthquake, I mean, partner, even for unexpected reasons that we shouldn't be there for our citizens, to exploit our citizens' victims, to translate our citizens' situation into commercial Ranta, political Ranta, in the lightest language, I say it's unconscionable. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, all these incidents, all these events are happening under the eyes of the people of the country. Our citizens know that. The people of Van, the people of Ercish know that. The people of Van and the people of Ercish appreciate the work we've done to find our power, our party truly admirable. The opposition's value is obvious. The Peace and Democracy Party may now have power in the local administrations, but you'll see, in six, seven months, they say they're going to leave, the BDP says we're against the group proposal, I wish the Peace and Democracy Party to occupy the agenda with other group proposals, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0074par0113	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0075par0114	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0115	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0074par0116	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0117	Mr. orator, if there's anything that our local governments have done for Van, if they've done something, he's inviting us to explain, allow me to explain.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0074par0118	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, look, you're talking about the number of ministries, you're talking about 13, you're saying 11 in one. You're aware that the number you're giving is afflicted, so you throw it out a lot, and no one listens anyway. Look, the investment you transferred from government budget to government budget to treasure, to treasure, to Van. The aid is less than the Ministry of the European Union budget, with 350 staff. Now, if you are referring to the aid of a citizen in Thrace, a citizen in Yozgat, a citizen in Kayseri, a citizen in Tripoli, who has been cut off from the heart of the citizen in Tripoli, as an investment in the government, then you are very ashamed.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0077par0125	What did the city do, City Hall?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0126	That's a shame. From the very first day, all our municipalities were in Van. We were in Van. We were in Van. We were in Van. We were with the people of Van. Look, Mr. Couplesman said here, the number of Vans the government hosted last year is 58 grand. This number is less than the number of Vanli hosted by the BDP Municipality. Look, only one town hosted over 70,000 Vanli, our city of Nusaybin. You don't know that, you don't know that.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0078par0129	Where, where?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0130	He did so by opening up his citizen, his people, the people's arms, his chest to the Vanite earthquake victim.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0079par0131	You're saying tie Van's lap to the city. Is that right?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0132	Now, you have nothing to say.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0080par0133	That's all there is to say.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0134	You're underneath it, really, every time you come out here, every time you talk, you feel the weight of the earthquake on you, you're under it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0080par0135	What did the city do, City Hall?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0076par0136	Our municipality... Now, it's hard on you, but you're doing statistics, we know, you're polling there. If Van had really been won by words, you'd have won by now. You arrested the mayor of Van's people who were victimized for water reasons instead of helping, and you saw that he didn't profit, and the prosecutor, the prosecutor of the court who made the arrest, the prosecutor who filed the indictment, confessed that they had made such a decision under political pressure and admitted that it was pointless. This confession is in Bekir Kaya's court file, go see. We took care of the Van people because we were the Van people, but you never understood it, and we don't expect you to understand it now.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0081par0139	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0082par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0081par0141	Mr. Hamzacebi, I promise you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0082par0142	Sir, Mr. Can has also expressed the Republican People's Party in his speech to taunt our group by saying that the opposition abused the earthquake, that he was trading it. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0081par0143	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0082par0145	Mr. President, it's the duty of the opposition parties to make sure that if there's a lack of the ruling party, if there's a mistake, they're eliminated by expressing them, but if the ruling party understands that democracy doesn't come out of here: E, we do everything, the opposition doesn't say anything. So if you perceive everything the opposition has to say about the earthquake as the abuse of the earthquake, the trade of the earthquake, there's a problem with your understanding of government, your understanding of democracy. On the one hand, you're going to compare Van's earthquake to an atomic bomb that's worth a ton, so we've had an earthquake that's so big that you're going to talk here with an understanding that there might be problems; on the other hand, you're going to underestimate an Adapazari-Sakaria, which is a much larger scale than that. To be honest, I'm critical of this double standard, and I don't think it's appropriate for democracy. The second is: Look, yesterday's second anniversary of the earthquake, the 2nd anniversary of the Van earthquake, 160 families still live there in the container. They have news in the papers, you have no explanation, you can't do it, there's still a problem. 160 families can't move into houses, there's a power that can't figure it out. There was an earthquake, and a delegation headed by Mr. Sezgin Godkulu, Vice President of the Republican People's Party, immediately arrived there. Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our chairman, quickly went to Van, and for a month, at least a month, and then at that time, maybe he grew up, but we went there all the time. Every day, three or five members of the Republican People's Party Group stood guard at Van. Every day for a month. During that period, the Republican People's Party Group went there at specific intervals. On the first day -- it was the end of the week -- that day, I was in Istanbul -- I tried to organize the help of Istanbul municipalities by calling at the direction of our president in Istanbul, and the Republican People's Party municipalities, including all municipalities across Turkey, and many districts, have helped there, and we have sent a minimum 100 trucks there. I'd like to tell you that you're critical of the 57th government. You haven't done anything here. I was a bureaucrat at the time, so let me tell you something that government did. That government wiped out the tax debt of those who lost their property in the Adapazari earthquake. Were you able to pass the law that wiped out the tax debt of the merchant in Ercish? Were you able to remove the tax debt from that merchant who lost all his assets? I've told you so many times here, but you didn't agree. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0083par0151	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0084par0153	Sir, our talker from the AKP just gave false information about the 1999 earthquake. A speech aimed directly at our party. I want your word on that.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0083par0154	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0084par0157	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, there's been some misinformation here. Now, even comparing the Marmara earthquake to the Van earthquake is absurd. One was an earthquake that affected 16 million people, and it was an earthquake that destroyed 485,000 homes, made 42,000 workplaces unusable, and it lasted 45 seconds; the other lasted 25 seconds. You're comparing it to an earthquake that affects a very partial region. In three days, many tents were provided in all these areas, which were affected from Istanbul to Gebedeh, including the one who had been affected. Within seventy-five days, they were taken into temporary dwellings, and within eight months everyone was removed to permanent dwellings. Now, you're still holding people in tents in Van. Don't. You still haven't put the people of the 2011 earthquake into permanent dwellings, their own dwellings.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0085par0161	Has he gone to the van?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0084par0162	Who, me? Of course I went to Van.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0085par0163	We're talking to Mr. Ramadan.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0084par0164	You're talking amongst yourselves. I'm listening. I'm sorry. But let me tell you, the size of the earthquake that occurred on that date, even comparing the Van earthquake to the size of it, is truly mind-blowing.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0086par0166	We don't compare them.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0084par0167	Besides, in the Van earthquake, you left the people you put in the tents in the snow that winter, but you gave containers to those who came from Syria. You didn't even look at them, you didn't even look at your own people. Now it's out here and you say it like that, it's a shame. Think about it: the ruins from Yalova, Istanbul, Istanbul, Küçükçekmece, and the Hunters in İstanbul, I say the ruins, including the Kadiköy Bostancı region, the earthquake that we lost 601 people with a huge earthquake that was effective in a large area, up to Izmit, Adapazari. So, at that time, the government was with its citizen, holding his hand, leaving them at least in the temporary dwellings in the winter, like you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0087par0172	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0173	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0087par0174	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0175	Mr. President, both Mr. Hamzacebi and Mr. Halaçoglu, who were the first speakers, both our government and our group, we didn't leave them at least in the tent during our time, you left them exposed...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0089par0176	No, we didn't accuse the group, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0090par0177	I took your word for it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0178	In the same way, in your day, about the earthquake victims in Van....... the people were staying in the tent....
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0090par0179	Look, it's not the depremzade, it's the depremzede.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0180	These are not accurate information. I want an explanation, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0091par0181	Go ahead and explain, don't let any more taunts get in the way.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, dear friends, we must not make politics out of suffering and suffering, no matter where they may be. We all need to work together in order to ease these sufferings, to repair this victimhood. Look, there's been a lot of pain, especially about the Van earthquake -- yeah, he's doing his second year. May my Lord never cause this country, this nation, these sufferings again. Can an earthquake be prevented? It's impossible to prevent, but we need to learn to live with the earthquake. Secondly, after the earthquake, did the governments do that? Did he do his best to relieve the suffering of the people there? Look, just after the earthquake in Van, almost half the cabinet was headed by our Deputy Prime Minister in the same day. He worked there, in their counties, in their villages. We have a permanent committee there. Our government has mobilized and mobilized all state resources to the end. We've rebuilt Adeta Van. We've rebuilt Van. Yesterday, Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, announced here. In many areas, education, health care, transportation, villages, cities, everything that needs to be done has been done and is still done. All the resources of AFAD were there. The government, the government, we were with our brothers from Van in Van. Of course, there's no way to bring back the dead, God rest his soul. Those pains are our pain. We have all experienced those sufferings in our hearts, and we pray that such suffering will never happen again. But let me put it this way: look, there are 250 containers, not 250 tents, and the ones that are left in these 250 containers are not entitled, they're not homeowners, they're homeless, maybe they're living as tenants in different environments. Since they did not have the right, our government has properly assigned containers to them, but they did not get home because they did not have the right. Other than that, there's no one who can't get home. It is our right, our right, our right, our law.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0092par0188	Give them some, aren't they citizens?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0189	And we're doing everything we can to honor them, and we have to. That is the duty of the EC PARTY and of this government. No one can doubt that.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0093par0190	And the Syrians don't have the right, so you gave it to them.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0088par0191	We were with Van yesterday, and I say we'll be with our Van brothers today and tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0094par0194	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The Peace and Democracy Group has proposed...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0095par0196	Mr. President, Mr. Aydın has mispronounced a matter that is not true. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0096par0197	We can't be that small, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0094par0198	Now, I think we've been enlightened enough. You made the statement at the General Assembly, the ruling party did, you've said enough.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0095par0199	Mr. Aydın, right after the Van earthquake, the next day, the Prime Minister's...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0094par0201	Please be quiet.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0095par0202	...with the entire Cabinet. He gave the House some inaccurate information, and I want you to promise to fix it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0094par0203	Fix it, tell me now.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0097par0204	I told you, Deputy Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0094par0205	Tell the record, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0098par0206	Mr. Aydın, the day after the October 23rd earthquake, the next day, the Prime Minister was with the entire Cabinet in Van...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0099par0207	No, the Deputy Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0100par0208	Deputy Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0098par0209	It's on the record. He said he was in Van. Three days after the earthquake, Prime Minister Van was only able to get to Van.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0100par0210	That's not fair!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0098par0211	The Van earthquake is a 24-hour delay in the 23rd of October.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0101par0212	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0098par0213	This needs to be on the record.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0101par0214	Okay.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0102par0215	I said...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0101par0216	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0102par0217	Right after the earthquake, almost half the cabinet was headed by the Deputy Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0103par0218	That's the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0101par0219	You did, sir, both of you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0102par0220	Our Prime Minister has been there many times.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0104par0223	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit02spe0101par0224	You're requesting roll call. I will grant the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal before voting. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Acar, Mr. Köse, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Öyüner, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Özsüşük, Mr. Kösek. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0101par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting was not enough in the polls before the 19th amendment of the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal, according to the 19th Amendment. Now, I'm going to redo the electronics. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. And now the Civil Code of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0105par0013	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction to make it into the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0101par0014	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0105par0015	There's just been a contamination of information about the Van earthquake. Just four hours after the Van earthquake, our Prime Minister and 15 ministers were present with Van and Ercish. In the process after that, many ministers of the Cabinet stayed there long enough to come and go as our Deputy Prime Minister. After this visit, the Prime Minister went to Van (now) three more times: this Saturday, he will again go to Van (now again). Sir, I've tried to make a statement so he'll be on the record.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0101par0017	It's been corrected, so it's been filed. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (24/10/2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş and his friends said on 02/10/2013 that the Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was to investigate allegations launched after the appointment of the new rector in March 2011 at the University of Turkey (1022 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Thursday's presentations and held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favor of the proposal, Congressman Ali Sarıbaş of Çanakkale. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0106par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, there are various allegations about the president and the problems at the university, which were appointed to serve at the University of Çanakkale on March 18, 2011-2015, one of the number of universities in our country. I have made a commitment to the motion we made to investigate these allegations. I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. Precious MPs, Çanakkale Onsekkale University, founded in March 1992, are a major educational community of nearly 40,000 academics and 3,000 staff members, including 13 faculty, 13 vocational institutes, 8 institutes of higher education, and 4 institutes. Since the appointment of Mr. President Çanakkale, Mr. President of the University of Çanakkale, of the University of Çanakkale, of the University of Çanakkale, of the University of Çanakkale, of the University of Çanakkale, of which he has violated the peace of the university through pressure, intimidation, banishment and dismissals, law, regulations and academic principles, and the struggle against human rights and the rights of science, while administrative and academic staff were supposed to do scientific work to determine politics in Çanakkale, re-designing, pleasure in our university, and the peace of Mustafa Kemal Kemal Ataturism, and the victory they fought against human rights and anti-theism, has been tolerated in 15 March 2011, and our city has become a symbol of peace. As we look at the developments before he was appointed to the presidency, we think the Chancellor was almost pre-planned and commissioned by certain authorities. Here's the thing: Mr. President is appointed professor on February 2, 2011, one day later, on February 3, 2011, he announces his candidacy as chancellor. The presidential election is held 15 days later on February 18, 2011. In its statement of why he is a candidate, he admits that his candidacy has improved beyond his own choice, in order to achieve radical changes in the university. And in their own statement, they said, "We have experience for our target, our preliminary work. We've already had preliminary interviews for all of our projects." he admitted that preparations had been made in advance. Mr. President, we have the necessary experience. he says. Mr. Laciner spent his entire working life out of college, while he was supposed to be a dean or, at least, head of the department. His relationship with COMMU has always been on paper. You have to ask: where did he get the necessary experience? Because two days before the president announced his candidacy, there was no telling what he was going to be assigned to the professorship, but with what authority and adjective, who were they interviewing before the election? After being appointed by the President, 18 professors, 33 professors and 41 assistant professors began to exercise their rights to work, began to pursue pressure and intimidation policies on employees and students; the unrest was not limited to the university; the wave wave spreads throughout the city; 83 professors, 63 professors, 61 assistant professors are free; 18 professors, 33 associate professors and 41 assistant professors are still in charge of their work; 36 workers are being asked to take their life in lieu of the job, and the other two others are being discharged by the same person who has been taken over to the university after the job and has been transferred to the university as an assistant to the university. For the first time in Turkey, I'm talking about a chancellor who was in a fight with several NGOs in Çanakkale with the participation of DİSK, TMMOB and other NGOs in Çanakkale. Very valuable lawmakers, in particular among the top 50 universities of the International University Association, offer you my requests for the acceptance of the proposal, in the hope that such a successful university -- including Europe -- will all form a commission on such a alleged rectory, and that the education centre here will be independent, free and restored.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0107par0043	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Members of parliament, the South Korean Ambassador and the lawmakers along with him have arrived with our South Korean Friendship Group and our General Assembly. I welcome them on behalf of our coven, sir. [[Applause]] Canakkale MP Mehmet Danish against the proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Danish.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0056	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. In the group proposal of the Republican People's Party, I have received a pledge from Mr. Sarıabakkale, our member of the Republican People's Party, to the motion of Mr. Çanakkale Onsekelle Onsek University to form a research commission for the investigation of these allegations after the election. We've heard Mr. Sarıbaş. Indeed, I suddenly remembered the old Turkey. Yes, in ancient Turkey, unfortunately, the universities were like this. Academic appointments, career advancements, were made entirely within the framework of ideological structures, and I, our man, could be made within reason. However, this is no longer the case in the new Turkey and the new Turkish universities.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0109par0058	Now the AKP gets them all.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0059	I'm going to respond politically, but in the last three years, especially at the University of Çanakkale, March 18, I'd like to share with you objectively what happened to this side from 2011. Look, Çanakkale University became the 7th university in Turkey, which received the most support and project from TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) in 2012. In 2013, he was granted a degree tag under the European Union standards. In two and a half years, the number of students increased to nearly 15,000, and the number of students in 2011 reached 42,500. There's a lot of new departments and faculty opening up. FOR the first time, the University of March 18th University has established its first technology, and we will open it later this year. The number of academics...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0110par0061	What number in Turkey?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0062	I'm coming. If you'll just hang in there. Look, the number of academics has risen by 30 per cent to 1,600, the number of faculty has increased by 40 per cent to 900 per cent, the number of administrative staff has increased by 2.5 times, and has only applied to our university in 2012 and 2013, and has been appointed. Again, the number of articles in academic international indexes increased to over 300 euros per year, and the number of references increased to over a thousand. According to our students who chose the university in their history, we had 11 students from the first thousand students in 2011, 21 students chose March 18th in 2012, 39 students chose March University in 2013, and each year, at least 50 of our high school students, our child Çanakkale chose March 18th University. Again, from the first 10,000 students who preferred March 18, our number of students rose to over 500. During this time, the University of March 18, has become one of the most supported universities in the Higher Education Agency. Again, according to international agencies' assessments, he has shown academic advancements, hosting many international conventions. Again, technically speaking, my friends, because they insist on asking, if you don't mind: Look, according to Web Ranking, the world's first thousand universities are ranked 959.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0111par0065	What number did Turkey become?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0066	Again, the best universities in the world by the Spanish-based Scimago Research Agency are among the top 1,500 universities in the world.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0111par0067	What number did he used to be?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0068	It was 1,700, it came to 959. These aren't my numbers. Look, these are quality improvements. Let's look at the improvements in quantity. It was founded in 1992, our university, the closed area we've acquired over the last three years, over 200,000 square meters, has been accepted in the last three years.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0112par0071	The former chancellor...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0072	Look, the former chancellor also worked with us, so I'll take out his press statements and put them in front of you, but it's good that you remind me of the former chancellor, and I'll come to him in a moment.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0112par0073	Don't talk about the government, talk about the president.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0074	Look, in our library, our number of books has reached 800,000.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0112par0075	Come to the president, Mehmet.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0076	I listened to you. If you'll just bear with me, I can answer all your questions. Internet use went from 45 terabytes to 500 terabytes. I don't know if any of this means anything to you. We built the first theater of Çanakkale in the university. With the support of the Ministry of Culture very soon, we also make a statement and offer the services of the Çanakkales. Look, we've won a convention center, and with our university, we're winning another one in 2014. Unfortunately, our medical faculty was not developed by local Republican People's Party executives, and we also started the new deanship building and hospital. I can count a lot of new investments like this, but we're more interested in improvements. So, why is it that good things happen in Çanakkale, good things happen, college develops, and so on? That's what I think, that's what my friend thinks, and I thought, "What's the answer?" I didn't think much of it. Have we not experienced the opposition of the Republican People's Party, while good things have always been happening in Turkey? Are we living in Çanakkale for the first time? No, we're gonna live with that. Look, at Çanakkale, the university is making great improvements both physically and digitally in terms of quality. My friend came, and here was his wife, and his brother, and what he was interested in. According to the times of the previous rectors, there is a leveled relationship in Çanakkale. However, in 2010, the city of peace is called Çanakkale, and today we speak of certain things. In 2010, when the headscarf visitors in their social facility wanted to stay by paying for their headscarf, we had a university called the University. You know what's more painful? The public transport vehicle will go into the campus and pick up students, and there's a passenger outside campus wearing a scarf -- not a college student, not necessarily -- and the citizen will have to land on campus, so he can't enter campus with a headdress.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0113par0079	In this day and age!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0080	Where are the human rights?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0114par0081	What does he have to do with the CHP if you love Allah?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0082	Where is the age of knowledge? Where's college? What are we talking about today? Look...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0114par0084	What's it got to do with CHP? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0085	What's that got to do with anything? I'll be right there.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0115par0086	Come to the president. We talked about the Chancellor.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0087	He just said he was a former chancellor.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0115par0088	Come to the president!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0089	That's where he gets his information.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0115par0090	In my speech, the AKP didn't pass, I didn't mention the service. The Chancellor, the chancellor!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0091	Look, you're using a statement, you're saying that you're saying that you're saying that he's guilty of a shameful crime.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0115par0092	Come to the president, the president!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0093	And you can't use that for anyone.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0115par0094	Don't defend the reactor!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0095	Brother, is he guilty or not?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0115par0096	Come to the president, the president!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0097	The people who made that counter are the ones who are running for Mayor of the Metropolitan District today.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0116par0098	Mehmet, don't confuse investment with AKP!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0099	... and he's a columnist in The Light.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0117par0100	You're just fooling people.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0101	I didn't do politics, I didn't do politics!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0102	As a nationalist conservative during February 28th, everyone knows what was done at Çanakkale University as an academic. During this period, the rematch was over.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0103	Let Mehmet go if you love God!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0104	The universities you miss will no longer return to Turkey, and that period is over. Don't get your hopes up!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0106	Sorry, you're defending the Rector!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0107	Look, they're walking in Çanakkale, with marginal groups against the president. Marginal groups carry the currency of those NGOs.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0108	You can't call the people of Çanakkale marginal.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0109	No citizens, I dare say, they don't even have their own CHP executives. They're hiking with marginal groups.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0110	You can't call the people of Çanakkale marginal, Mehmet!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0111	Just like CHP MPs sent them to the AK PARTY building during the Travel Actions.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0112	Everyone to the marginal...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0113	You're trying to provoke the streets, but you're not gonna make it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0114	So let go! Still everyone's marginal...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0115	Why? Çanakkale really is the city of peace. Look...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0117	Chancellor, Chancellor! Mehmet, come to the President!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0118	What's wrong? I'll come whatever you want.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0119	Rector, tell me about the Rector!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0120	Now, look...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0121	Don't tell me about the AKP. I didn't do politics, tell me about the Chancellor!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0122	The university administration says there's not a single person the president's been court-martialed by.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0123	See if he obeys the law!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0124	There's not a single person the president's been court-martialed.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0125	Look at the tenders!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0126	Take a look at the tenders.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0127	Here, let's see, together.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0128	Invite the D.A., look at every penny.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0118par0129	Let's look together... let's look together.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0130	Look at what you've been through in Çanakkale. Please, don't let anyone try to outshine what's being done.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0119par0131	Either accept the motion to investigate, and we'll see what's going on.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0132	There's no peace in college, there's pressure. What about 500 new academics coming to the university under such pressure? Will Turkey's most successful students come? Is it possible to publish this much academic literature where there's pressure?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0120par0133	The AKP has either accepted him or the Chancellor.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0134	You're having trouble adjusting to the new era.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0120par0135	This is your new era!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0121par0136	They'll get used to it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0137	I mean, slowly. Of course, of course, it wouldn't be so easy to transform.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0122par0138	▪ What does New Turkey mean? Can you tell us about him?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0139	Good things are happening in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0123par0140	We see great things happening!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0122par0141	What does this mean, New Turkey?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0142	Good things happen in college. Look, the number of academics who were separated in 2011, 2012, 2013 is 40, and the average of 40, if you look at the previous years.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0144	Mehmet, come to medical school!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0145	Let's get to whatever college you want. Let's get to medical school... who you think it's about.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0146	Come get the people who've been in jail, come to the Chancellor!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0147	However, I think one of the things you have to open up is that, you know, you're saying, these were the looms of time, these were February 28th, these days are behind you, and we can't leave people to be blamed like this.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0148	Come to our day, Mehmet, Chancellor...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0149	We can't leave people hanging like this.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0150	Let's look into it together, Mehmet, and let your words be true.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0152	Look, I know them all better than you, in detail.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0153	Let's investigate together, together.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0154	I also know the names of the people who set those people up.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0155	Let's look together, side by side.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0156	I think your manuals are a little off.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0124par0158	It's okay if you're defending yourself.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0108par0159	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0125par0160	Thank you, Mr. Danish. In favor of Hakkari MP Adil Zozani... Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0126par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the unfortunate day of the AK PARTY group, because all the troubled issues have been focused on today, and the issues they cannot answer have come up today, and they are having trouble answering. In fact, there's not enough propaganda material, and they're having trouble explaining it, so they're always trying to stir up old books, and they're in a defense. I kind of understand the mood because they don't have anything else to say. Now, with a research proposal for the University of Çanakkale, we benefit from the establishment of such a commission in order to set an example for other universities. Now, in the period of Ergenekon operations, university rectors, university professors, were very closely associated with their anti-government stances, some in prison, and some in the profession, a propaganda such as this was carried out. Whether or not they had such zeal, whether or not they were legitimate, we don't argue, but in the government's practice of this period, we see that the professors, who they criticized, are in the position of university rectors, new, close to their own parties, trying to get a position close to their own mentality. The system they defame, the system they defame, this time, they're spreading a staffing activity in universities to serve them in their own way. In Turkey, all universities are truly miserable. The quality of education is getting lower, and it's reflected in the OECD reports. In Turkey, the quality of education is particularly in terms of science and mathematics, a report by an international organisation that says that there is a falling down in these branches. We don't just refer to it as political propaganda material, we remind them of a report by an independent international organization independent of Turkey, and we bring it up. The quality of education in Turkey is getting lower every day. At universities in Turkey, in schools, partisanism is increasingly prominent, and it now states that a structure in the direction of the congregations has become public. I'll give you an example. Now, Diyarbakır Dicle University is a public university, isn't it? It's a public university. Do you know that a public university professor is a professor at another private university and is being paid from the University of Diyarbakir Dicle? In fact, let me put it one step further. He is registered at Dicle University in Diyarbakır, where he receives his salary and is the chair of a community university at Iz University in the federal Kurdistan area. Who pays your salary? Light University has nothing to do with public opinion, it's a private university. He pays for it, hires any professor he wants, but you're taking a professor from a public university, based on what basis do you put him in charge of the university there? They found it open, and they caught a gap in Article 38 -- if I remember it wrong -- and based on the deficit, the professor at the public university is appointed as president of a private university. Recently, I went to Çanakkale. As they walked the streets in Çanakkale, they sat and chatted with people in the teapot, they brought this tribulation to our attention at the university. They brought this trouble to us at the University of Çanakkale, and they shared it with us. They told us that partisanism had reached its limit, that academics who really wanted to do the teaching work were excluded from the university. You have to listen to this serf, you have to pay attention to this serf. If it has to be investigated, it must be investigated. You can't tell me what you can't say when you're close to us, especially when there's a motion to investigate such a thing that involves serious statements, allegations. Look, if there's decay in one place, if there's decay in one place, it's decay in the other, if you can't cure it, it'll take you away, it'll destroy you. It has been expressed many times from this bench, and the place of university students is not the prisons. College students have to be at their university. I remember sharing this information with you before. Since a student had an upside-down tulip postcard in her purse, ▪KCK operations were put in prison under the name. His bag was found with an upside-down tulip postcard, no other criminal evidence, and that's how the indictment was placed. We can share more examples with you. We can put in front of you a lot of examples of teachers being confiscated from their duties. When colleges are like this, don't let anyone expect us to be in a mood for what we need. Look, we're upstairs discussing the Plan Budget Commission. The Court's statements about this year's universities, especially about university spending, and especially the university's return capital, are pathetic reports: there are very few universities in Turkey that are not under suspicion. The Court, not us, says this. You'd be making a big mistake if you turned your back on this. The government says we've increased the number of universities every time. Thanks. Do you know how many universities there are in Turkey, which has a name but has no building? Do you know how many colleges live in rent? Please take a look at the shares that were earmarked last year, and look at the grants that were set aside this year. In Turkey, universities are concentrated in three cities; Ankara, İzmir, İstanbul universities are concentrated. It's like colleges only exist in these three cities. The stake in the universities of these three cities is almost greater than the sum of all other universities. Pity is a sin. Does the student in Çanakkale have to be one of the three cities to say that I am a student from Aydın? Why should the university in its own town not have the opportunity to study under the conditions of the university in Ankara? But all of these universities, especially and especially, are kept out of sight. Let me make it clear why. Because you're particularly ignoring it because you think it would be easier to become a staffer at these universities where they're particularly considered country universities. We say we're in favor of this research motion to see the sad state of the universities in Turkey. We hope the Great Parliament won't let it pass. We salute you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0127par0180	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Against you, Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0128par0184	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. We stand against the motion that the Republican People's Party has brought here because there are no majority on today's Council of Counsellors. Now, when we look at the content of the motion, we need to look at the Civil Code and the Constitution to see if such a motion can be made.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0129par0187	From now on, we'll consult with you, Recep Special, we'll consult with you!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0128par0188	Let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0129par0189	If that's what you're saying, we'll say, "Mr. Recep Special, how do you write a research proposal?" We'll take your permission and write!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0128par0190	When the Republican People's Party brings up such suggestions, we don't waste the people's time, if they bring up more content, more quality, more full, non-empty allegations.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0129par0191	From now on, he'll tell us how to talk. We'll send in our pre-verbal texts, and we'll talk about it however you appreciate it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0130par0192	What does he mean by empty, sir?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0128par0193	See, when you read the motion, a number of work and actions conducted at a university are alleged to be wrong. To whom is this claim false? If you think it's wrong, you'll go, there are things to be done by the administrative authorities, there are things to be done by the judicial authorities. And there's also a question... can a county MP go on the council stand and discredit his own province's university? Look, there's a bad...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0131par0196	We're not vilifying the university, the chancellor...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0132par0197	You don't understand. Read it first, read it!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0133par0198	Mr. President, the speaker can't speak.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0199	I'll tell you. If a college student is doing propaganda against a university, if he's talking, he's preventing 17 students from choosing it, preventing him. Now, there are evils here at the University of Çanakkale, the University of March, the University of Çanakkale, the University of March, the University of Çanakkale, the University of Çanakkale, and the University of Çanakkale. He said, "How much further can your own province prevent the University of Çanakkale from going to the university in the years to come?" I say, sir, that the Minister of Çanakkale is responsible if there is a fall in the next year -- we don't hope, we don't want -- if there is a fall in the university at Çanakkale.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0135par0201	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0136par0202	Don't talk in the mirror!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0203	I'm getting more serious motions... look at this chancellor, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. If our chancellor is doing things that make this much CHP jump, he's certainly doing very good work, he's doing very good work; otherwise you won't jump. You don't do good work, you don't sign. Wherever there's bad, wherever there's work to polarize such a society, wherever there's work to divide it, it's always been in your era.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0137par0204	You're doing the dissolution.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0205	Mr. Çanakkale, who just arrived from the former term of chancellor, told us here. In terms of the faculty of your province's university over the last ten years, I mean, as a research officer...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0138par0206	Two years...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0207	He explained here that the number of students has increased from 14,000 to 40,000 in two years.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0139par0208	Turkey has also increased.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0209	Look, Çanakkale is a small province, a small province. The Çanakkale economy is based on these students, on college.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0139par0210	You didn't build it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0211	Don't poke him, don't undermine him by bringing these kinds of proposals to this university. Tell me about the good things that have been done, the good things that have been done here.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0140par0212	Tell me about the scientific work the university has done. Why don't you tell me the good stuff? You tell me the good stuff.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0213	It's going down in the history of Congress. The fact that a congressman who defamed the university of his own province signed a research motion and brought him here... you're history. I congratulate you on that, too, for succeeding in the first place!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0140par0214	Tell me what scientific work your president has done for two years. Tell me, what conference did he attend?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0215	Now, another thing... it says here that the president is taking away the rights of university professors.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0140par0216	Show them to us, we don't know. We don't know what good he's done, you tell him!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0217	Yeah, well, it's not like a college president gets his rights...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0141par0218	No, someone else will get it, and he won't get it, and the citizen on the street will!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0134par0219	The constitutional rights are set up by the Constitution, which is laid down by the law. It is not up to the chancellor to place rights, to remove them. What I understand from there is that our chancellor, someone was being eaten there, is whether they're being taken away from him because he's cutting off his food. I want to tell you that.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0142par0221	You're the one who knows how to eat. You're the only ones who know how to eat.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0141par0222	That's no better defense, Recep. Bravo!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0142par0223	You're good at eating, master, master!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0143par0224	We'll discuss international contracts on our agenda today and settle the motion that the House is in unnecessary occupation. That's why we don't attend to your grand delegation, and I give you all my respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0144par0226	Thank you, Mr. Special. The motion...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0145par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0144par0229	Excuse me, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0145par0230	Mr. President, my motion has been made as a threat. He also said that the motion was empty and cannot be made. I want a say in this.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0144par0231	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0145par0235	Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers, let me first say that our friend, our friend, has made a threat. In my speech, there's no such thing as Çanakkale and any other kind of threat or threat. That can't happen. In every investigation of every member of the Turkish Parliament, in every interview, if he is making a serious speech in his research, he will also threaten it. In this Parliament, you can never talk about a democracy here in this Republic of Turkey, you can't talk about the state of law in Turkey, you can't talk about anyone in the right way in this Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Very valuable MPs, I -- as my Çanakkale MP just said -- I didn't say anything about university, about corporate personality; I told a rector about his practices, and I told him about the problems with the rector, about the people and the practices of the university, and I didn't enter into the details, but I meant to investigate it. I did not mention the AKP's help here or their relations or their help to Çanakkale. You can multiply people in universities, you can get as many students in college as you want, you can multiply the square meters of university buildings, but it needs to be looked at if you can raise a qualified student, a qualified academic, a qualified professor.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0146par0238	The students are going in there on a test. What about 40,000 kids? Give him credit!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0145par0239	I'm answering. In that sense, not in the world universities of Turkey, but in two years... and again, with the research of the YOK and the research done by your government, while entering the first 50 universities in Turkey, Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University has not been in the first 50 in the last two years.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0146par0240	What, are the students in Çanakkale bad? No qualified students? Don't be unfair!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0145par0241	It's even better for this... if you know that the percentage of the university is increasing in Turkey, and if you know that the number of universities, although it used to be less, is going into 50... it's multiplying, and if it doesn't go into 50, sir, it's even worse.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0147par0242	Why?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0145par0243	So I'm just saying, in that case, I'd have to say my old number is 20 percent. My dear friends, please don't mix the straw with the handle. I said a motion to investigate the president, not about college. I also talked about public relations and the fact that people who were dying there and suffering and bleeding about cancer were written there, that the professors' rights were taken. Don't be so cruel, I told you so you'd see. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0148par0247	He called the students incompetent! What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0149par0248	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0148par0254	You said the students were incompetent! It's a shame about 40,000 kids! They've been tested. Look at you!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0149par0255	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's just calm down, please. We're done here. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Central Charter and the Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked 1st. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked third in the Southeastern European Defence Minister's Process Framework, confirming the Co-ordination Committee Agreement. The commission and the government are in place. The last joint was adopted by Article 2 of the bill. Now I'm going to read the third article: The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0150par0276	Mr. President, I've been promised 322 rows of Numbered Legislators, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs, the best times, the worst times. It begins with Charles Dickens. The story of the Two Cities. And it continued to be the age of wisdom, the age of stupidity. It was a time of faith, a time of doubt. It was the season of light, the season of darkness. It was the spring of hope, the winter of despair. Perhaps 20 years later, when historians look back at our time and our geography, they will see great hopes and disappointments, great changes, and contradictions created by these changes. They'll tell you the world's been reshaped. They'll write about the excitement of change and the price being paid. When you say "paid prices," you say "change" or "change." (x) 322 S. The numbered Basmaz is added to the 8th Unification Charter, dated 23/10/2013. I'm not talking about the predicted boundaries. The price I'm talking about is people's lives. What we have reduced to numbers, what we read in newspapers every day as statistics, what we see on TV as numbers are human lives, and behind every death mentioned is a tragedy. And it's clear that all of these deaths will cause other tragedies to be born. The number of people who have died in bombings and conflicts in the Middle East over the past year is the population of a medium-sized city of Europe, with 100,000 deaths in Syria alone. Millions of people have had to migrate from the land where they were born. This is not limited to Syria, there is blood and gunpowder everywhere from West Africa to Afghanistan. This problem is not only the problem of the last three years or five years; the history of the Middle East is a bloody history, a history of violence, but the region is becoming increasingly unstable, war and blood. This smell of blood and gunpowder is no longer limited to the Middle East, and its spread and permanence seems inevitable. These are the developments that we all know closely and have witnessed, especially in the last two years, but the problem is not to determine what the decisionmakers of our country are doing against it. (HPP) I think we should look at the results of the foreign policy followed by the Justice and Development Party. In the past five years, Turkey has become lonely on almost every platform, not just in the region, but in its eagerness to become a leading country in the region. (CHP clapping in rows) This isolation is becoming an isolation. As a matter of fact, some bureaucrats have had to hide behind a concept in international foreign policy literature that doesn't make much sense because it's worth being alone in order to defend this false idea of foreign policy. There are no countries in the Eastern Mediterranean where our relationship can be considered normal and friendly, and relations with the neighbouring Iraqi government have been greatly reduced, and our relations with Iran and Russia are tense because of the position taken in the Middle East. Some countries find the religious foreign policy approach of the Justice and Development Party ruling offensive. In particular, there is a sense that Turkey is also responsible for the unacceptable actions of some organizations supported by power in Syria. All these developments are proof that valuable loneliness actually means nothing more than the bankruptcy of foreign policy. Of course, foreign policy should not be based solely on interests, of course it should be primitive, but it shouldn't be hostile when all this is done, because the more temporary friendships and alliances are in this ancient geography, the more lasting the hostility is. Therefore, long-term strategies are needed in creating politics and not to make enemies of our people. Foreign policy in Turkey has been perceived over politics and policies are based on it by the time of the Justice and Development Party. The traditional Turkish foreign policy, especially in the Middle East, was founded to avoid violent approaches to destabilise the balance, while the parties that conflicted after the Justice and Development Party's ruling were chosen by sectarians, and the policies were set. In particular, I would like to point out that it is not possible for us to agree that a modern, democratic and secular state should sit its policies on sectarian polarization. The danger of being a part of sectary-based polarization and of being an ideological choice is not to be ignored by Turkey's risk of confronting the negativity of jihadist currents in the middle term. It seems that on the way to present the Turkish model to the Middle East and to compare Middle East to Turkey, Turkey has quickly become prone to Middle Easternism, which is a very dangerous process. Excessive structures fighting against the regime in Syria are using the road to Turkey, providing logistical support, and allowing foreign affairs and security forces to overlook them. Of course, there are consequences and they begin to emerge. Al-Qaeda and its extended organisations can be arrogant enough to threaten Turkey. These forces have taken steps to fill the gap in the region after the change in the Arab countries, which concerns the Turkish people as much as the Western countries do. Dear MPs, the Republican People's Party has warned the power at every turn as to the mistakes made in foreign policy, led to the peaceful way of resolving problems, kept reminding the principle of peace, peace in the world. Mr. President, as I said at the beginning of my speech, history will write today; it will write the consequences of Turkey's attitude and attitude. As this period is being told, I think it's the most important legacy of our country, not as part of war and conflict, but as an architect of a lasting and sustainable peace, to be called a contributing country, to be left to the next generation, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0151par0287	Thank you, Mr. Little. In the name of the person, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0152par0291	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to talk to you about international contract number 322. In my speech, the EC PARTY governments have followed foreign policy, which is particularly in the foreign policy, along with those who are in favor of stability, reciprocity, persecution, the legitimate interests of Turkey, not only of Turkish people, but of all people who are oppressed and victims. This foreign policy, of course, along with domestic politics, has brought stability to peace and quiet during the AK PARTY administrations. Therefore, this fine attitude of the EC PARTY governments in foreign policy has been an example to all the countries in the world, all the people in the world. It began here especially with a meeting in Tirana, Albania, on 31 March-1 April 1996 about the defence ministers of Southeast Europe, which aims to improve regional security, stability and co-operation in Southeast Europe and strengthen good neighbourly relations. In the process, countries such as the United States, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Turkey, Ukraine are participating in this meeting as observers. As a result, international contracts are in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0153par0295	90, 90...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0152par0296	Thus, international agreements under law pass in a joint agreement, even in commissions, and the General Assembly approves the implementation. Therefore, the rejection of international contracts has never returned on behalf of Turkish law policy, which continues, however, recently, international contracts have been discussed, not on international contracts, but again, unfortunately, infertile domestic politics, foreign policy disputes. That's why I'm announcing that the orator who comes up here is in an international contract, if he has any information, to declare them in his vocabulary, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0154par0298	Thank you, Mr. Can. On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0155par0302	They're giving it to you in the evening, and everyone's talking about it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0154par0303	Please remain calm and listen. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0156par0305	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, there's basically a good run in this House, and I've agreed so far to discuss international contracts. Because, really, these are the ones that have strengthened and improved our country's bilateral relations in the international plan and...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0157par0307	There are arrested MPs in this Parliament!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0156par0308	...an important deal in the business world. So, but, it's been a bit of a setback lately, I'm afraid. I hope you'll continue from now on. The Bill of Law 322 is also a minor contract. I wish the law to be good, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0158par0311	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Moving on to QA. We've got deputies in the system. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0159par0315	Thank you. Mr. President, Dear Minister, you know the area well. In Ankara, Istanbul, schools opened on 16 September. The children of the MPs who were present began school on September 16th. In our Malatya, I want to say with shame -- the village children, poor family children, unfortunately, start going to school in a month and a half. That's because there are problems with this transport education that happens every year. Unfortunately, the money, the pay for the van, is not set according to the area. Every year, the children born in Malatya, Ankara, İzmir, İstanbul, start school a month and a half later from their children. In this regard, at least next year -- this year has passed -- I ask you to fix these fees, to do what is necessary, to do so, as a man who has studied at the village school in Malatya. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0160par0318	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0161par0320	Mr. Minister, Turkey pays you 1,800 euros per person, after Istanbul, the second of Turkey as a city, with the tax on the province of Kopeeli per capita, but the second of Turkey is paying you $1,800 per person. In other words, you use the taxes you received from Alexei in solving many jobs in Turkey. In contrast, the average investment in the provinces is $1,600 per person; the amount per person is $450 per person. So Turkey is far below its average and 79, ranking 79, in 81 districts. Now, is this the case that is done every year in the 40-50,000 - growing population, in the schoolhouses and the schools, in the yearly need of hospitals, in the year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - to - year - to - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - to - year - to - to - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - year - to - to - year - to - to - to - year - to - to - to - year - to - day - to - to - to - to - to - day - to - to - to - do a new way? to - to - to - to - to - to - to - to - to - year? to - to - to - to - to - to - to Are you planning to raise? Or...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0160par0322	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Reminder, no advice. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0162par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you a question when we have a Minister for Development. The slap is located in the 5th district of the city's incentive system. In particular, there are no investments in some of our organised industrial regions, especially in its presence in the 5th district. For example, Turhal, especially Zile, Niksar, organized industrial areas have not been seriously encouraged, and there are no investments, but there are some partials in Tokat central and Erbaa. There is a public request and support at the point where the province of the slap is taken into the 6th district. At these points, Mr. Secretary, what do you want to say to the Slappers? That's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0163par0328	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0164par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, because there are no staff in the districts of Tuzla, Üskudar, Pendik, Sultanbeyli, Beykoz and Chile, elementary schools and secondary schools, where the National Education Directorate has not assigned staff to clean up the school, school families are hiring outside staff, and these funds are collected from the guardians of school students. In this respect, our parents are victims. Do you think there's an officer's job to clean up the schools? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0165par0333	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0166par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are two roads being made in Bingol. One is the Bingöl-Young-Servi Road; you know, Servi is now the village road; you gave the kilometre by invitation to $3.5 million. Right next to it, in the same geography, there's a Bingol-Diyarbakir road, you did it with a tender, and you did it for $1.5 million per kilo. Now, one main road, one mile, one mile, one village road, three and a half million miles. Now, when one is an invitation, the number goes up, and the other one's a tender, the number goes down. You need to explain this to me, you need to explain it to the people of Bingol. What's underlying it? What is it that we don't understand, that we don't understand in terms of the price difference? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0167par0338	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Aghababa, with education... I understand this is a more special situation in Malatya. If he can pass me a note... school, route name, we can pass it on to the Governorate of Malatya, we can deal with our National Education Directorate. But I'd like to point out that our educational government has a priority. Since the day we became government, we've always devoted the biggest part of our budget to education. The transport system is actually a healthy system. Instead of building small units in each village, the creation of schools where we have a more qualified education from all majors, where our children are moved is actually a healthy approach. Of course, according to the population, we need to look at this. If you form an institution where there are very low populations, it may have problems with the quality of education for children. Sure, like I said, it's a special occasion. If you give me a note, I'll pass it on to our governor, ask them to take care of it. Mr. Akar Zikeleli is the first in taxes, but he's not high enough on expenses...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0169par0344	Investments, investments, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0345	Is it all about investments?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0169par0346	Yeah, we're in line for the 79th time to get funding for investments.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0347	Yeah. For once, I'd like to point out that we don't have any tax-consuming methods as our country. You know, we have a unitary structure. All the taxes are collected in a pool, all the taxes in the country are collected in a pool, and then, depending on the needs of our institutions, sectors, there are plans and allocations. As your tax-based Republican People's Party, I'd like to know if you have a tax-related spending proposal from the provinces, if that's the kind of system you're predicting. We don't have that approach.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0169par0348	No, sir, we're asking the Turkish average for what's rightfully ours.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0349	Our taxes are collected in a pool, the needs are also taken, and the needs are what they are, and the periodic investments can increase, decrease, some large investments are complete, they fall, they increase again when they start. However, I'd also like to point out that we can't isolate all of our investments, especially in transportation, in investments that cut many cities, energy, transport, and so on, it's not easy to make the distinction of our various investments in the provinces, but you appreciate that it's not easy to cut many provinces. Therefore, there is no such thing as not investing in Ableeli, there are very serious investments being made in our province. We're investing in our university there, in our technical, technological infrastructure, in our companies. If it weren't for the investment in the Big Apple, it probably wouldn't have grown up so fast; one of our fastest growing, developing regions is a province where our private sector is very dynamic. Mr. Right, he asked a question about the Tokat. Can't it be the 6th district in the 5th district? I want to make it very clear that no special assessment has been made in this particular sense. With 61 criteria, per capita incomes, from internet use to road issues, with many criteria; education, health, 61 criteria; a model in a computer environment completely ranked according to the level of socioeconomic development of our provinces; not just economics; see, socioeconomics, social and economic indicators. Here, our provinces have been declared whichever group they belong to. But these are studies that can be updated from time to time. When we update it, of course, there's no way of knowing what to expect with new evaluations. However, the 5th region is a very suitable area for encouragement, which I would like to point out. Also, sometimes in our incentive system, there's a point that is missing: the regional dimension is only part of our incentive system, other than that, there are strategic sectors that are not connected to any region. There are sectors of the 5th district, not in any region; we have general incentives, they are not in the region. So, on the one hand, we have a lot of incentives that aren't connected to this scheme, but are completely sectoral. I'd like to mention that in particular. Mr. Tanal, they raised a question about cleaning in Istanbul concerning schools. Of course, our Minister of National Education could have given us a more detailed answer, but I can tell you in general that it's important, of course, that we all have to be sensitive about cleaning our schools. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In particular, we give national education a priority in our assessments of working for the community through the ICRU, and we give priority to the cleaning of our schools. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0170par0357	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0171par0358	Excuse me a moment, Mr. President, this is important.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0359	Just give me a minute.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0170par0360	One moment, please.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0361	He compared the price of two roads in Bingöl, and said, "Why is it different?" If you look at the roads, I don't know if there are two same-priced roads. The cost we call the road can sometimes be 10 times different depending on where it is, depending on the mountain structure of the field, the lack of it, depending on the geographical conditions.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0172par0362	Depending on the tender method.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0363	Look, Servi County, I'd like you to go and see what kind of environment is in place, so go take a look at it yourself.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0172par0364	I have, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0365	It's a very difficult road; it's a way where there are always curves, and there's a very difficult geography, and security issues are very, very important. I'm sure you'll be able to make that difference after you go down that road and get to know them differently.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0172par0367	Mr. Secretary, I've seen it. Why did you do the invitational? Why didn't you bid?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0368	If you ask our Minister of Transport about him, they'll give you a detailed answer.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0172par0369	They won't, and all our questions remain unanswered.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0370	It's a special place, and it's a safe place.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0172par0371	I know that very well, but the tender doesn't change, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0173par0372	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0168par0373	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0173par0374	You answer in writing, Mr. Secretary, if there are any questions you haven't answered. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, to state the color of the game before voting on the entire bill, in favor of Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0174par0379	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. We've come to the conclusion of the Dair Law Bill, where we've been talking for the past two days, that the Co-ordination Committee Agreement is in order to be approved in the Framework of the Defence Ministers of Southeast Europe. I wish this agreement to be a blessing to our nation, to our nation, to our state. After me, I hope that Kamer, the young man who will be against the law, will speak well, without insulting us. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0175par0384	Thank you, Mr. Special. Against you, Tunceli MP Kamer Young. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, we're negotiating an international agreement. Ahmet Davutoglu, the owner of the law here, is not in the market, and he is not coming to this House. Where's he going? He has no face, no face to come to this country, no face to come to this House. Now, the President of the Foreign Commission -- there are papers -- has invited Maliki to go to Turkey. Did you or didn't you? How come this is what he calls it? You're going to invite him? Man, you play a lot with this government. This state, the Republic of Turkey, is a well-respected state, a respectable state, but because of you, it is losing a great deal of dignity in the world. Now, friends, Turkey is so isolated that it loses so much value in the world that people are really, I mean, amazed. What kind of government is that? What kind of government is that? Now, look, today, Turkey is a single state in the world. He is broken with Syria; he is broken with Iraq; he is broken with Iran; he is broken with the West. Now, American newspapers say that the president of Turkey's MIT reported 11 Iranians spying on the Israeli account to Iran. This is a terrible slander, a grave slander, a great slander. If it's true, there's an overwhelming responsibility. Mr. Recep says: "We don't waste our friend. There's one thing, one thing that hasn't been developed, and Bakir has, with such childish thoughts, he says: "Sir, we don't pluck our saplings." There is no such claim that undermines the reputation of the Republic of Turkey. If the sapling did it, if you did it, you can't handle it. Friends, do you know who the state of the Republic of Turkey supports in the Middle East today? Al Qaeda, Muslim Brothers, El Nusra. Who are they? They burn people alive. They capture Syria's soldiers -- I see, I see his video -- and they bring him in, they pour gas at the top of the well, they burn him down in the gas. Who are they? And also, people...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0177par0394	Tell me who uses acid in Syria!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0395	Look, he captures the soldier, he cut off his head with the sword, he captures the soldier, he goes behind him, he says, "Godu Akbar" and kills dozens of people one by one. Who supports this mentality? Recep Erdogan and his power.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0178par0396	You, you!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0397	Where in the world is a political power united by such a mentality respected, friends? We're telling the truth about all this. Either you don't read the press or you don't follow the world's events, or... so blindly, people don't support a political power, and you have a responsibility. The state of the Republic of Turkey can't be so discredited, it can't be alone in so many worlds. Is that a thing? You have to pay for all this. Now, you bring Hashimi, and you go after him, who is condemned to be put to death, to El Maliki, and you see that there is no cure. Now, friends, look, this state is our state. There's been a lot of passing through these podiums, but you're... you've got a veil over your eyes, you're blindly supporting a political power, that's not gonna happen. This state can't be so discredited, so lonely. So today... no questions are being answered properly. I'm asking a question, and I'm saying, "You paid Libya $200 million, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who sits in the Ministry of National Education -- I don't have a mouth to call him or tell him -- look, we took that money with the bag, we gave it to him.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0179par0400	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0401	How do you prove you didn't put it in your pocket?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0180par0402	You're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0403	He won't answer us, is $100 million brought in with a briefcase and given to another government? It can't be. Did you pocket these or not? I'm telling you to get your receipt, he's not answering us here.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0181par0404	Are you talking about yourself?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0405	That's it, that's how much corruption can't be done in a time of corruption and corruption. The people we're dealing with have a little sense of responsibility for these matters, and they need to answer to us. Now, let the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission come out and say, how dare he go and invite Maliki to Turkey, and let him say it.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0182par0407	Mr. President, would you invite the minister to speak in a clean language?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0408	That's why, friends, they always bring...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0182par0410	What kind of an accusation is that?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0176par0411	And the color of my vote is no. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0183par0413	Mr. President, can you correct his non-existent statement?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0184par0414	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0185par0415	We condemn you, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0184par0416	Mr. Bozır, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0186par0420	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't really think there's a subject worth answering for.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0187par0421	Then why are you going up there?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0186par0422	However, as a person who honorably served thirty-eight years in foreign policy, I don't think there's anyone here who has the right to ask me what face I'm going to go to Iraq and why I'm going. Trying to fix relations between Turkey and Iraq...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0188par0423	That's not true!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0189par0424	That's not true! The congressman will ask.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0186par0425	...it is our duty to strive for Turkey's better relations with its neighbours, and in this way...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0190par0426	Is there only the AKP here? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0189par0427	You're not an ambassador, you're a congressman. Of course he will.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0186par0428	.. I don't think it's right to bring it to the attention of the House in the most wrong words, here, on this stand, to speak this way.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0190par0429	How's your speech? You're the commissioner.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0186par0430	The sin belongs to the one who has the say. It's in the best interest of Turkey to have good relations with its neighbours, in the interest of Turkey, and in this framework, I hope the relations with Turkey will go to a very good time. When Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki arrives in Turkey, re-signing agreements will be signed, while joint cabinet meetings will be held, and everyone will be observers. Of course, envy is a virtue. And for that, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0191par0433	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. The whole bill...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0192par0435	You're the Commissioner for nothing. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0193par0436	Sir, first of all, I don't believe there's a man here who's been a diplomat for a long time, who's targeting the entire Assembly, who's going to ask me questions.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0191par0437	I don't understand, here...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0193par0438	I don't believe there's anyone here who can ask me any questions. He should at least tell me who he's leading against, apologize. I resent him.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0191par0440	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0194par0442	Mr. President, you need to ask for the transcripts on what Mr. Hati has used because he's been working on foreign policy for years, and he's given a speech that suggests that no one has the right to ask him about it...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0195par0443	Who are you to ask us questions?
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0194par0444	That's the kind of speech he'd make. It's impossible to ignore the will of the people. So we're going to need you to review that report and ask for a correction if necessary.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0196par0445	Let me see the records, sir. I couldn't make it clear. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0197par0447	I'll bring it up. If I didn't hear it wrong, I'd rather have heard it wrong -- there's no one here worth explaining it to. Look at the records, sir, and then we'll evaluate them.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0196par0449	Looks like Mr. Bozır wants to fix it. Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0198par0453	Mr. President, that's exactly what I said: 38 years...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0199par0454	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0200par0455	You can't hear!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0201par0456	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0202par0457	...as a person who's spent it on outside politics, I don't think there's anyone who can question the face of me going to Iraq.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0203par0458	State your statement after that!
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0201par0459	Now I'm going to file a report. If you'll excuse me, I'll take a vote, and I'll get the transcripts in order.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0204par0460	I'm being teased, so at first it says: "You can't ask me questions."
tbmm-2013-10-24sit03spe0201par0461	No, I'll check the transcripts, then Mr. Young. [[Continue]] The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-10-24sit04spe0201par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The open vote of the entire Law Bill 322 was not enough for the meeting. Now I'm going to renew the open vote with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second open vote failed to hold enough meetings, it was Wednesday (October 30, 2013) that the decision required to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions to discuss on Wednesday (October 30, 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
