tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0002par0008	Mr. President, sir, according to Article 58 of the Civil Code, I'd like to make a statement to correct my statement in the last report.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0001par0009	First word off the agenda...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0002par0010	Sir, it's required at the beginning of the merger, and so is Article 58. Article 58 of the Civil Code states that if a deputy or minister wants to correct a statement in the last minutes, the president will promise him not to go past five minutes at the beginning of the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0001par0011	I'll take it off the agenda, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0002par0012	Okay.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0001par0013	The first out-of-date statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Mehmet Metiner (Adıyaman) who wants to talk about violence and hate crime. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0003par0019	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were struck last night in front of the whole world, and the coup of Sisi took place in Egypt. In a country ruled by the pharaohs for thousands of years, the hopes of a people who have brought democracy out of Tahrir are sought by military coups. Those who were troubled by the emergence of democracy from Tahrir were struck by Tahrir. It's every democrat's duty to criticize the primitive in a consistent manner that takes place before the eyes of an entire world. But history will never forgive those who, in some way, seek an excuse to support the coup. Today, in our Human Rights Commission, members of every party of our Commission, we wrote a joint statement against this coup. Of course, the sensitivity of our parties to the coup is above all recognition. There's one or two things I'd like to point out here. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things that have been talked about and discussed recently. One: democracy, of course, is not a polling regime. Democracy, of course, is not just a regime, but we would also like to say that we have read the statement of Egyptian Chief of General Staff General Sisi. He says, "Sisi, in blow, Sisi: we swear that we will sacrifice our blood to defend Egypt and its people against terrorists, radicals and fools. I would also like to condemn the defense of this foolish coup against such a foolish argument. Dear friends, in democracies, yes, the majority isn't everything, but democracy doesn't have governance without a majority. In democracies, yes, pluralism is an essential principle, but pluralism doesn't mean that there are some circles that don't take power from the polls. You can't mix public life with participation and political partnership. I do what I want with the majority of democracies. I suspend the rights and freedoms of others. It's not a government that means anything, but democracy, friends, it's not the name of a regime that sees that a raging mob, a fierce community, will never come out of the ark again. Pluralism means that everyone's basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed. Pluralism predicts participation within itself, but it never predicts the culmination of power from the street. Those who perceive the principle of pluralism of democracy in the way that someone takes power from the street or establishes government on the street are wrong. My fellow lawmakers, when the coup took place yesterday in Egypt, we saw a number of Turkey's environments, certain environments, rejoice over how happy they were. I'm not going to name it, the title of a television is exactly this: "Egypt has fallen. " It's shameful, it's shameful for democracy. I find it meaningful and admirable that the Republican People's Party, institutionally speaking, opposes the coup in Egypt, but I want to make it very clear that we must not take shelter in the back of any kind of military coup when we are principled against it. Using a political language that threatens Erdogan here as an example of Egypt is incompatible with democratic understanding. See, those who say they're against the military coup also feel the need to say, I quote: "The developments in Egypt are very important. It shows that democracy is not just a chest, that all political institutions should take lessons. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, power comes out of the chest, power comes out of the chest. Democracy is not just a chest, but any understanding that seeks power on the street and tries to take power from the streets must be strongly and violently condemned. I condemn the coup, I condemn the understanding of democracy of the United States of America, and of the members of the European Union, who condone the coup. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, who wants to talk about Manisa's education problems.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0005par0033	Mr. President, I have received a promise from the esteemed MPs regarding the education issues of Manisa. I salute you all. According to the National Ministry of Education, there are no schools in 380 settlements in Manisa, as of 2013. In primary school there are 396 classes in secondary school and 375 in secondary school. In Manisa, 936 primary and secondary schools, 166 have bilateral education. Without our philanthropist businessmen, our Manisa children will almost never find a school to study. And again, there are 2,368 teachers short in Manisa. These problems in the field of education have also been reflected in the higher education exams, and Manisa has been reduced to the 47th ranking in the Finnish Nationals (YGS). According to the Ministry of Development's 2013 Public Investments Programme, a $65m education grant was transferred to Manisa in 2013. Only $25,960,000 of this grant was earmarked for 17 schools, pensions, education and research centres under the National Ministry of Education. With this grant, it is absolutely impossible to complete education investments in Manisa. I'd like to share with you an example of how projects in the national education investments are progressing in Manisa. One of the most important problems in our district is the housing problem of boarding students in secondary school. To resolve this problem, the construction of 200 bed-and-breakfasts in 1998 began, but was still unfinished, and it is highly doubtful that it will be finished at this rate. In January 2009, Seledek was signed a protocol for the construction of 800,000 Turkish liras, teacher's home and kindergarten. This project, approved by the Manisa Special Administration Council, was later cancelled. In 2012, information on the construction of two-story, 180-metre-square-square-foot teacher's house, worth 200,000 Turkish liras, was reflected publicly by some representatives of the ruling party, but this project was suspended again. There are a total of 433 academic staff deficits at Celal Bayar University, including 23 professors, 45 professors, 119 assistant professors, 60 professors, 120 researchers, 16 experts and 50 teachers. Resolving academic staff shortages at Manisa Celal Bayar University will help the rapidly growing university achieve its goals and capture modern norms. The Demirci district, with around 10,000 handstands, has regained its lost market by machine carpeting, wall to wall and mosque carpeting. We find great benefit in opening a carpeting advanced technology institute, a carpeting research institute, a faculty or a university within the University of Celal Bayar, where carpeting and wool are developed. The university has not been opened only to Selden, from 15 districts of Manisa. Citizens of Selden look forward to faculty or higher education. AKP politicians have promised to build a university for Selden, before each election, but are forgotten after the election. In addition, the construction of the university is transferred to the public. In 2012, 6 districts were appointed director of national education. What merits and career criteria were sought when these managers were appointed? Is it a coincidence that six district national training directors were all members of the government's union before they were appointed? According to the regulations of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, it is imperative that those assigned to the Ministry of Education meet the terms of their decentralisation. A total of 16 branch managers were appointed at Manisa headquarters, eight. In order to be appointed branch manager, you must have received a four-year degree in higher education and a branch manager's exam, but none of the 16 branch managers appointed have won this branch manager's exam. Again, some radical decisions about 12 years of basic education have been made to transform schools... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but this transformation was not achieved in Manisa, and that affects the quality of education in a negative way. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0006par0046	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, who wants to talk about the coups.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0007par0050	Dear MPs, the most recent blower of the 21st century, El Sisi, said that the coupters usually call it that, then the Supreme Court's Chief Justice brings Mansur, and Mansur tells him that he's the one elected. It's good to look at our history and remember it, folks. 1960 was a coup in Turkey, and the Prime Minister and his friends of the period were executed, and they called him the revolution. 1968, Iraq, Saddam struck. Where's Saddam? He's gone, he's dead. 1969, Gaddafi, Libya; same fate. 1973, Pinochet, Chile; he answered, he died. 1978, Ziya Ul Hak, Pakistan; likewise, he died. 1987, Tunisia, Bin Ali; exile, escaped. 1980, the Kenan Universe;.......xxxx) did not go, died, lived, rested, and judged the fighters. 1989, El Bashir, Sudan, Darfur massacre; International Criminal Court has issued an arrest order. Qatar, 1965, Hamad Bin Khalifa. Pakistan, 1999, Pervez Mühref; the prisoner is on trial. Central Africa, Francisco Bozize, 2003. Moritania, 2008, Veled Abdulaziz. 2009, Madagascar, Andry and Honduras, 2009, Roberto Micheletti. Here are the recent blows to you. Why were the coups in Turkey done? If you look at the origin of all the blows, you'll see that they're caused by separatism and interference. So, what happened in the last 35 years? It stands as the constitution of the coup of September 12th, as it stands in the Law of Political Parties, the electoral laws are the same. Retistic, insubordinate, assimilationist, militant, malevolent, racist, monotheistic understanding and despotic understanding continue to follow. They've come, they've watched, they've tagged, they've taken him into custody, and today, even the descendants of the victims of that period are asking for these receipts. The victims of Turkey are workers, unionists, association managers, revolutionaries, socialists and right-wingers in 1960, and Deniz Gezmi and their friends paid the price in 1970. When it comes to September 12th, it pays on the right, it pays on the left, but the victims of the left and Kurds on the right are thousands of times the right. (x) A non-English word was expressed by the Hajip in this chapter. (xx) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. (xxx) A non-English word was expressed by the Hajip in this chapter. When you look at all of these, they all have a savings, friends; what they're building is the National Union Committee, the National Security Council, the National Security Council. All of them have labels, patents, brands of coups. To hell with nationalism, this kind of nationalism, we curse that it has shut down the House, shut down the parties, brought in the MPs, sent their leaders to the Chainbreaker. There's no other way in this House than to go out and curse the coup on this stand after these coups, after all this suffering, my friends. Today, all parties must make a common statement, a curse, that curses the coup in Egypt. Again, four groups of parties have to download and pass the Article 35, to be a message, in order to make sense of it, with a Council of Counsellors, to pass it on to Parliament today, which should be provided. Against coups, not words. The coup goes on, the coup law goes on, the threat of impact continues in Turkey, and we invite everyone to be vigilant about it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0009par0062	Mr. President, I'd like to submit something to the transcripts. A sentence Mr. Hatti says is wrong. Not all military coups in Turkey claim to be nationalists.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0007par0063	They're building national organizations.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0009par0064	Two, Turkish nationalists are the biggest victims of these coups. It's supposed to go on record. It's not right for your honor to accuse you of being a nationalist while you're blaming the coup d'états. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you. Mr. Young, you have asked for a statement according to Article 58.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0068	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0069	Which statement of yours will you correct here?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0070	Sir, in the last report, there's an impression that I'm calling for a coup, and I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0071	Well, didn't I promise him yesterday?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0072	Sir?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0073	Didn't I promise you about that yesterday, about fixing it?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0074	No, sir, here, in the report... but it's also bad publicity. You didn't. I mean, for him, I want to fix it. Article 58 is open, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0075	I understand, sir, we know about Article 58.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0076	I told you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0077	We know the number and the law.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0078	I want to correct my statement there.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0079	But, Mr. Young, I'm warning you from the beginning, you're going to talk about correction.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0080	I'll talk to you about fixing it, okay.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0010par0081	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0084	Mr. President, while I was speaking here yesterday, AKP Deputy Group President Mustafa Elitaş told me that he was a member of parliament who made the call for the coup and tried to show the path of the coup. My talk, friends, is that we have to make peace in this country, we have to make peace in this country, we have to strengthen the sense of brotherhood in this country. There's a huge responsibility for the ruling party in the first place so that we can provide it. Now, if the ruling party goes to fight all the time, if it provokes it, it won't happen. See, the speech that Mr. Recep made in the last group today is that there's one person at the head of the CHP who sees all the ugliness legitimately in order to harm his executioner and pass from black to white. He's talking to Mr. President. This president is also a disgrace to politics at the Republican People's Party. Look, I'm telling you, if someone said something like that to your president, is there a peace offering behind this? Again, he made a statement at the airport on his way from Africa, and I listened very carefully.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0012par0089	Mr. Young, you've come to correct your words about the coups.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0011par0090	No, I'll be there. Okay, to fix it. I'm telling you, I don't... I mean, it's in my speech. I mean, to correct him, Mr. President. "The mentality of the People's Party of the Republic is filth," he says. Friends, the mentality of a party is its principles and program. The principles of the Republican People's Party are secularism, republic. So, secularism and the republic are scum? So we say, friends, look, we as a state of the Republic of Turkey are now at an advanced, advanced state level that has reached the European level of democracy, human rights, governance. So let's move on this level. So let's not take this to a brother fight. In the events of the trip today, if the government hadn't really been there to do that harsh intervention against those young people... here, for example, I've seen two young people go, and I've seen two of them shoot right in the eye, and they've smashed their face, and they've got two eyes. We've got 12 kids like this, five people dead, thousands of people. It's our duty to warn the ruling party. We say: "Look, let's not be harsh in this country. People may have some ideas against it, and let us understand that they are against it. This is the quality of power; it will embrace people. When you try to squeeze water against people with batons, pepper spray, pressure water, it doesn't happen. Two women in Dikmen the other day, I was sitting in Angora, and she knocked on my door in the morning. Sir, the police are coming, taking our children out of the house at night, beating them to death. Now, these are painful events, prevent them. I say. What we want is peace in Turkey. Look, guys, the biggest harm of the coup is... I've been a member of the Council of Counsellor, okay, I admit it, but then I quit. When you're building the Constitution of 1982, you're going to have to look at what I'm saying in there, and you're going to have to look at what I'm saying. Now, there I was, rejecting the Constitution of September 12th on my own, leaving. There were 160 Councillors there, and I had no one to look at because of my speeches. Why? Because I was always stressing the truth in my speech, and the people also hated me because they said, "Do soldiers do anything to Kamer Young?" I'm a member of a province that's been subjected to major, brutal incidents in science. They burned his brother to a tree next to his brother. He was in a situation where, friends, unfortunately, at the time, the torturer was being tortured, and the doctor wouldn't report the torturer. The D.A. wasn't investigating that person out of fear. The judge wasn't judging anyone who tortured him out of fear. I'm a member of a county that suffered the greatest suffering of military revolutions. For him, it's out of the question for me to want it. I'm against military revolutions, but civilians need to get their heads together, not bring the regime to a standstill. When you take the regime to a blockage, the regime explodes somewhere. You need to run some automated channels that guarantee a regime, balance. That's what I mean. Therefore, my lord, these friends who call us the revolution... are unjust. But today, there's a worse justice system than September 12th, there's a judicial system, and everyone needs to know that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0013par0099	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. There are presentations of the presidency to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The state of animalism in Turkey, the impacts and problems of the Van earthquake on the animal industry, and the need for the opening of Parliament research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the effects of the privatisation of meat combinations in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region, to reanimate animalism in Turkey and Van, and to determine the measures to make it an employment sector. [[Antalya]] [[Edirne]] 3) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Malatya]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 12) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Bolu]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] 18) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Let's go.]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[40s.]] 24) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 25) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] There is a serious decline in animalism in Turkey, especially in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. Finally, earthquakes in Van and Ercish have severely damaged businesses operating in the livestock sector, as has had a negative impact on all social and economic life in the region. It is among the information that the earthquake negatively affects the animals, that the milk yield has dropped, that the littering has increased. The chain of enterprises operating in the livestock industry is reportedly broken, no food for animals due to the closure of the bait companies, and the milk produced at low capacity, even because the dairy is closed. These problems cannot be solved by delaying animal support, tax and credit payments. The continuation of this painting will have a severe impact on the animalism of Van and the region. Turkey, which was the fourth country in the world in terms of the number of cattle in the 1980s, was severely hit by a meat import policy following the arrival of Turgut Özal. In later years, animal manufacturers were left unsupported and unclaimed by privatisation of the Meat and Fish Association and the loss of meat combinations. Our animal existence has begun to decline in these years and has been abandoned to its destiny. The price stability provided by the Meat and Fish Association and the protection of the small manufacturer have been eliminated, and the price of meat has increased, while the animal producer has become poor. Due to the wrong policies the AKP has followed over the past decade, the losses in the livestock sector have also reached significant levels. In recent years, nearly 1 million cattle have been imported, nearly 2 million small animals, and nearly 200,000 tons of carcas meat imported. Despite imports, meat prices have not been reduced. Turkey, instead of supporting its own producer, it has imported funds to other countries' livestock sectors through imports. This painting is unacceptable. Re-enactment of the livestock industry in Turkey is of great importance both to the satisfaction and employment of Turkey's need for red meat. Investigating whether animal support has reached its goal or not, it is imperative that a new system be created if necessary. The privatisation of the Meat and Fish Association has become important to explore the effects of animal production and nutrition. Such research should be done in order for our people to eat cheap meat, and should be examined for the need to reinvigorate and activate the Meat and Fish Foundation. For these reasons, parliamentary research is necessary to determine the effects of privatisation practices and the Van earthquake on the animal industry, the efficiency of the support system, the measures to revitalise the livestock sector. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, we would like to introduce a research commission based on the importing of oil seeds and the solutions to the problems caused by importing and importing, and on the basis of the 98th Article of our Constitution, and on the Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish National Assembly's Institution. [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Edirne]] [[Balıkesir]] 6) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] 15) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 16) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Let's go.]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[40s.]] 24) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 25) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] For the AKP government, the year it took office was 2002. Any government spokesman, particularly the prime minister, is trying to explain the actions, first bringing them to 2002, and arguing that more is being done during this period than in the history of the republic. Agricultural assessments show that in 2002 and later years, it's so exaggerated that it's as if agriculture wasn't even done in this country before 2002. The facts, however, are known to be the opposite of what they say. The policy of fatty seeds, which have been very important in agriculture since the past, and the figures in this area show this fact precisely. From 2002 to today, the results of the distorted policy in fatty seeds have been better explained by statistics. According to data from the Plantary Oil Industry Association, the appearance of oil seed imports from 2002 to 2011 is as follows: Turkey imported 613,000 tonnes of soybeans in 2002 to assess plant oil production, while in 2011 it imported 1,28,000 tonnes. In 2002, the import of only 1,000 tonnes of colza (canola) seed reached 307,000 tonnes in 2010, and in 2011 122,000 tonnes were imported. The import of sunflower seeds increased to 129,000 tonnes in 2002, while in 2011, 911 increased to 1,000 tons. Turkey's imports of fatty seeds totaled 78,000 tonnes in 2002, reaching 2 million 331,000 tonnes in 2011. Turkey does not only import oil seeds for herbal oil production, it also imports raw oil. In 2002, the total import of 707,000 tonnes of crude oil reached 1.33,000 tonnes in 2011. When examined in terms of value, the critical table in question becomes clearer. Turkey paid 223m dollars for oil seed imports in 2002, while in 2011 it increased to $1 billion,358m. Raw oil imports were paid $340 million in 2002, while in 2011 $1 billion was paid $338 million. These data reveal that Turkey's agricultural policy since 2002 has not been enough to increase the production of oil seed, its support and its laws. From 2002 to today, agriculture, in particular, has made Turkey more dependent, not only free of external dependency, but more dependent. Although one of the main goals of the Turkish Agricultural Basin Production and Support Model, prepared by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, was to increase the production of fatty seeds, the words have been reported and models have remained on paper. This painting shows that Turkey is a net importer country in herbal oil, meaning the bankruptcy of its policy of fatty seeds. In our country, however, oil - seed plants should be considered strategic products, as in the entire world, and should be made to grow. We respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, to investigate all aspects of the fatty seed policy, to take the necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of our country's major problems is that traffic accidents cause massive loss of life, causing the injuries of tens of thousands of our citizens and the financial damage expressed by billions. In 2011 alone, 2,77,976 traffic accidents killed 2,568 citizens, 193,096 injured. Numbers also reveal the seriousness of the problem. The number of people who lost their lives in traffic in Turkey is twice the European average. In developing and underdeveloped countries, a significant part of the need for security creates a need for security in traffic. Because traffic safety in these countries is not affordable, death, injury, and financial losses are frightening. Three key elements, including vehicles, roads, and people, play an important role in the formation of traffic accidents. In advanced countries, multi-dimensional scientific studies are being done to minimize the role of these elements in accidents. These studies are also supported by studies in schools. Another factor that affects traffic accidents in our country is the failure to increase railway, seaway and airway transportation to the desired level. The main axis of our country's transportation policies is the land road. This model, which has made our country dependent on energy, also brings with it the cost of more expensive infrastructure. As a result of road-based transport policies after the 1950s, the road length increased by about 80 per cent between 1950 and 2010, while the length of the railway was only 10-15 per cent. The natural result of these transport policies is that our country's transportation system is based on one system. In view of our country's passenger share, the passenger share is 96 per cent, while the railway share of passengers is only 2 per cent. The cargo share is 94 per cent of land transport and 4 per cent of cargo carrying through iron. Transport technologies and improvements in shipping, air, railway transport have reduced traffic accidents to minimal levels in developed countries. In view of our country's heavy traffic balance sheet, it is clear that urgent measures must be taken. Between 2002-2011, in the AKP, our country lost 41,873 citizens in traffic accidents. At the same time, 1,672,696 people were injured. Unfortunately, there is no healthy data on the problems of our citizens who have suffered from accidents. In order to prevent traffic accidents, we propose and establish the current situation, including transportation alternatives, traffic education, the establishment of effective and permanent policies in these matters, the establishment of effective and permanent policies, and measures to prevent accidents caused by investigating the causes of traffic accidents, we propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research on the basis of Articles 98, 104 and 105 of our Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] 7) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Edirne]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Let's go.]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[40s.]] 16) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 17) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (04/07/2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Talks on the opening of a parliamentary investigation of measures that should be taken through all dimensions of press freedom in Turkey have been proposed by the General Assembly on Thursday (04/07/2013). The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal in favour of Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0014par0310	Dear lawmakers, if a country wants to avoid coups, its press, its media should be free, its obstacles must be removed. We've made a motion to investigate. Why did we give it to him? All of this was signed here, from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to the European Convention on Human Rights, to the United Nations Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights. But in Turkey, when we come to practice, unfortunately, we see that the media, the media, is not free in writing and visually, even targeted, even the columnists are thrown out every day, and beyond that, many statements by the International Publishers' Union, many statements by the press agencies, and the explanations of the FLA (FLA) about the European Union) also show that legal legislation and obstacles continue in Turkey. Now, to express that, let's make a comparison: Turkey is now under arrest, with six of its privileged and editor-in-chief, 68 journalists. Now, when we look at Turkey's ranking of freedom of the world of the press, we're in the 122nd place, and we're in the country where there's a press arrest in the world. For example, do you know these? Abdullah Çetin, Dicle News Agency Ahmet Birsin, Güne TV Editor-in-Chief Ali Konar, representative of the Azadiya Welat newspaper Elazig Ayşe Oyman, editor of Özgür Gündem newspaper Aziz Tekin, Mardin representative of Azadiya Welat newspaper Spring Wolf, Possessor Bayram namaz, author of the Atlam newspaper Bayram Güyük, representative of Mersin daily Genghis Doğan, newspaper Azadiya Welat correspondent Genghis Kapmaz, writer of Özgür Gündem newspaper Jahan Deniz Zarakolu, Editor of Document Publications and Translator Cetin Kirşiz, Özgür Future daily Erzincan correspondent David Flyer, Director of Ethics Agency Deniz Kılıç, representative of the Azadiya Welat newspaper Batman Deniz Kismetli, People's Diary representative of İzmir Dilşah Ercan, reporter for the Azadiya Welat newspaper Mersin Dilek Demiral, journalist, former editor of Özgür Gündem newspaper Born from Karastone, Walking Magazine Erdal Süsem, September magazine Erol Zavar, Focus magazine Ertush Bozkurt, Editor of Dicle News Agency Conqueror Özgür Aydın, Plus acceleration magazine Fatma Koçak, Dicle News Agency Faysal Tunç, Dicle News Agency Şırnak correspondent Ferhat Arslan, Dicle News Agency (DİHA) Mersin correspondent Ferhat Farmer, representative of Gaziantep newspaper Azadiya Welat Fusun Erdoğan, Özgür Radio former General Editor-in-Chief Coordinator Gamze Dilek, Editor-in-Chief of Behavior magazine Hamid Smoke, author of Azadiya Welat newspaper Hasan Özgünş, author of Azadiya Welat daily Hatice Smoke, Editor-in-Chief of Atlam newspaper Hüseyin Deniz, correspondent of the Universal newspaper Izzet Uysal, Free Future Kamuran Sunbat, former correspondent of Dicle News Agency Çukurova. Kenan Karavil, Radio World Editor. Kenan Kırkaya, Dicle News Agency Ankara representative Mazlum Özdemir, Dicle News Agency correspondent Mehmet Emin Yıldırım, Editor-in-Chief of Azadiya Welat daily Murat İlhan, Azadiya Welat daily Diyarbakır correspondent Musa Kurt, reporter for March magazine Mustafa Gök, İkk and Justice magazine Ankara representative Nahide Ermis, Democratic Modernity magazine Nevin Erdemir, Editor of Özgür Gündem daily Nilgün Yıldız, Dicle News Agency Mardin correspondent Nurettin Fırat, Özgür Gündem daily author Nuri Green, Azadiya Welat Omar Faruk Hard-working, Free People's Magazine Ramazan Pekgöz, Dicle News Agency Diyarbakır editor Sadiye Eser, correspondent of the Universal Journal Sami Mentesh, correspondent of the Yurt newspaper Sebahattin Sürmeli, Free People's Magazine Semiha Alankuş, Dicle News Agency Sevcan Atak, editor of Free People's Magazine Seyithan Aküz, representative of the Azadiya Welat newspaper Adana, Gibraltar Güler, journalist, former editor of Özgür Gündem, Sinan Aygül, Dicle News Agency Bitlis correspondent, Sultan Shaman, editor of Heviya Jine magazine, Şahabettin Demir, Dicle News Agency Van correspondent, Thank you, Sak, Raider Road and Baran magazine, Recep Basak, former Editor-in-Chief of Azadiya Welat newspaper, Turabi İskin, editor of Özgür Gündem daily, Turhan Özlü, Editor-in-Chief of National Channel TV, Reach Star, Fight Union magazine, Yalçın Küçük, journalist, Yeliz Sword, Walking Magazine, Veysel Şahin, Adjective Magazine, Yüksel Genç is a journalist for Özgür Gündem daily. I've counted the current prisoners. Notice that Azadiya Welat, who wrote 90 per cent in Kurdish... friends, Kurdish language, Kurdish thought, Kurdish newspaper can't have that much hostility. We're in the process of peace, of resolution... Look, in 1999, there was a chance of a solution process during the coalition governments, and then, when the guerrillas retreated across the border and the guns stopped, despite the 25-year conflict climate in Turkey, despite that dense environment, there was no Turkey on the agenda as Europe and America set up the list of terrorist organisations. When the guns shut down, the PKK on Turkey was then listed as terrorist organizations, as soon as the weapons were dropped. Now there's a process of peace and resolution. Be careful, but what does Denmark do in this process of peace and resolution, which says it is the most civilized country in Europe? Notice that Nuce TV cancels the broadcast license of Mesopotamia TV and Roj TV, a music channel. There is no freedom of the press in Turkey. They say they criticize Turkey and they themselves forbid freedom of the press... even the music channel. Now, here, along with the solution process, someone is uncomfortable. The immediate reflection of this illness to the press is remarkable. In polls, these are the most watched televisions in the east, southeast, friends, and the following television is Parliament TV. And I'm highlighting this fact, that if there's a live broadcast after them, it's the most watched television channel on Nûce, Sterk TV, Roj TV, and Mesopotamia TV 1st place. Now, closing these channels, based on the Constitution of the September 12 coup, the Press Act, the Press Law, the National Security Council's Law, keeping them in, keeping them in, I believe, for the coupters -- if the Minister of Agriculture were here -- is a productive land, efficient environment; bans, censorship, banning. There we have seen, there is slaughter in Uludere, and our press is silent. Something's happening on the trip, the mainstream media is silent, but there are some who can't be silenced, friends, they can't shut up social media. Social media comes in this time, and the work in social media is starting to bother me. Now, it is the Parliament that will open the channels of democracy -- one of the reasons for the struggle -- to enlighten the people, to enlighten the public, to do the right news, to give the right information, to ensure that the press does. Let's do some research on this. For God's sake, tell me... all these media bosses are doing everything but the media, they're in business, they're in energy, they have all the mining companies of Turkey; they're under the government's command, they write what the government wants. Now, Bumin, who didn't write, was released because of his latest writings from New Dawn; he had previously been Hassan Cemal, a television man we know a lot. Guys, we need to look into these prints. We need to stuff grass in someone's bell so freedom can grow in this country, there's no other way. This motion for research will benefit you, too. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, there will be no end of the El Sisi, but watch out for the El Sisi, saying from us, and warning from us. We expect you to say yes to such a useful research proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit01spe0015par0388	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0015par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0016par0005	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, it is not possible to oppose the demand for freedom of the press or to investigate the measures of press freedom, but I have made a commitment against this group proposal, which was given by law to meet the requirements of the Civil Code. Dear friends, of course, it is not possible to accept that our country has been accused of international freedom of the press. Unfortunately, Turkey has been shown among the countries with free press on every floor and freedom of the press since a very long time. It is not possible to accept this because if Turkey is a democratic law state, it is imperative that the press be free; if Turkey has a claim to improve its democracy, move its democracy forward, firstly all restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of expression must be lifted in the broadest form of freedom of the press. In this sense, our Parliament, our General Assembly have been discussing this issue of journalists who have been arrested for a long time, but at this point there is a process that has not stopped us from being accused in the international community of solving the problem because of the difference in definition between power and opposition. However, allegations should be made, if these allegations are false, if they are false, then they should be answered correctly, but in public, Turkey, about freedom of the press, should not be shown among the countries that cannot be compared to us in every sense. It's a matter of honor, we need to make it a matter of pride. At this point, the responsibility is primarily the responsibility of the ruling party's AKP government, which ruled Turkey on behalf of the Turkish nation. Look, I've also read the reason for the motion. He really demands that the measures that need to be taken should be taken by investigating the problems in this matter. To me, it's a very innocent, reasonable request. In taking this seriously or in taking it seriously, sir, why another party? We know the truth, we do it, we do it. If you claim it, it's better for the ruling group to give it and allow the allegations to be investigated. And we say to the world, "We set up a commission to complete our shortcomings in this matter, we work as parliament, and we tell you the reasons." But, unfortunately, the government says, "I know about these things." As you know, Turkey does not spare the shame, Mr. Elitaş. Here I am, here I am, here I am, right on my way to the Internet, and here I am. There is an American-based organisation called the House of Liberty, with statements accusing Turkey of heavy sentences on the 2013 world's freedom of the press. We're going to enter the European Union. You're saying that the European Union's enlargement officer has just made statements and statements blaming Turkey. These, as an opposition party, are hurting us as a citizen of this country and as a political party in this country, and we demand that you remove what must be done about this issue from Turkey, and we complain to our nation about your failure to do so.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0017par0011	Mr. Şandir, those journalists are under arrest for the propaganda of terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0016par0012	I get it, but I mean, I'm talking about international agencies, I'm not talking about the statements of arrested journalists. International institutions, we try to express ourselves with the statements of those organizations when necessary, but we need to cover their accusations against Turkey about freedom of the press. We can't just say "terrorist journalist" or anything like that. Dear friends, I'd like to say another thing: Of course, the incident in Egypt makes it necessary for us again to present a will statement on this matter as all political parties. I say as the National Movement Party, we all have to stand against the will of the nation, the change of the system that the nation has decided to come with its own free will, the unlawful change of its future, no matter what the reason, no matter who owns it. But there's also one error to remind you: The truth of this Great Middle Eastern Project, which you claim as Arab Spring, which you sort of hope for, is coming to the Middle East, here comes freedom, democracy. You're trying to tell the nation all of a sudden, that you're trying to be a spokesman for, came out of yesterday's incident in Egypt. Let's learn from this. I mean, not everything from the West is right, guys. Let's object to that. So, we, the country of this region, as the nation of the West, are responsible for subsidizing projects, taking over those projects, and supporting the dictatorship of our region... the Turkish nation's mission, this geography; we led this geography, this geography is ours. This geography, these forces from outside this geography... are being imposed by Muslim blood, Muslim blood is flowing in the world today, Turks are being persecuted in our region. Therefore, I think we should learn from the events in Egypt. Again, dear friends, there's no point in scratching shell-clad wounds. It's no use in this country for two weeks to be constantly talking about the Corrum events, the Sivas events, and some of the other things that we've suffered in the past, some of the things that we've been ashamed of, the things that we've been talking about here, the scabish wounds. Shouldn't he be questioned? He should be questioned, but the officers need to do what they need to do. You're not supposed to be doing a job talking. If the culprits are to be investigated, he has the relevant institutions of our government, but if we try to make it the object of politics all the time, we won't have served because it's the country's most important asset. It will damage our unity, transform our differences into dissolution, turn our differences into conflict, and I think it's best not to disturb the peace of this nation by constantly bringing up past events. Another thing, dear friends, is that we've been...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0018par0016	Do you want him to get away with it, Mr. Orator?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0016par0017	No, I don't, but there are institutions involved, so let them look into it. It doesn't work by talking, if you know what I mean. Dear friends, we made a compromise at the previous Council of Counsellors meeting. This settlement was until the completion of the negotiations of this law, which you called the law, but then you broke the agreement that we had reached and that we had signed under it without asking us. You've brought other laws; you've brought one law; you've brought five, you've brought six international contracts; you have no right. We're entering Ramadan, it's the end of the semester. We worked together, we decided together, we signed under it. You have no right to spoil it without consulting us. Therefore, the responsibility of disturbing the peace of this General Assembly before Ramadan is unfortunately above the AKP ruling group as political power. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, I want to express to you that I expect a very difficult work, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0019par0023	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0020par0024	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0019par0025	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0020par0026	Mr. Group Vice President has just called me by my name and in his last sentence, we made a compromise, the responsibility of breaking the compromise is on the power. I want to respond in two minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0019par0027	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0020par0031	Honourable MPs, I salute you all. See, we, as the ruling, report to the political group's deputy presidents what we're going to do about that week every week, and they have information about what we're going to see in the week, especially before the public, the media, even our group. No one can deny that. In our talk that day, we also briefed our political parties on the amendment of Article 35 of the TSK Internal Service Law. As a matter of fact, the Speaker met with political parties. The Commission met on Monday and made its decision on the meeting of the TSK Interior Service Law. We're going in that frame. We stated yesterday that the Ministry of Transport -- if you had come -- has international contracts that say it is urgent, very important -- there is a obligation that these contracts must be approved in September or by the end of August. About these contracts, we said, look, consider them, give us some information. What country did they say? But we expressed it to our friends, and we looked at it, and we said it had nothing to do with countries, but it was a general contract. Let us examine it, they said. We haven't gotten back to us yet, but we're saying that we believe that the opposition parties will probably contribute to a situation of extraordinary proportions. But dear friends, look, this is how we turned the settlement, we did this... Your Honor, you're talking about ethics. Take a look at the motions you made yesterday for God's sake. If we accept the motions, the matter, I suppose the Laws don't know where to place the decisions. The same substance came as a motion, so what do we have here? We changed it, we accepted it. Where's it put? There are motions that can't be processed. Please consider the motions delicately... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You can block...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0021par0037	Why don't you tell them what you did?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0020par0038	...but we need to follow the rules of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0021par0039	So, tell me about it while there's a TV.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0020par0040	It would be wrong to consider it different. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0022par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0023par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0022par0045	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0023par0046	On my speech, Mr. Elitaş gave a brief to the General Assembly. With the information he gave, my words went to a misunderstanding, so, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0022par0047	There's no answer. If there's bullying, I promise. Here you go, Mr. Shandir. I promise you two minutes for the bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0023par0051	Mr. Elitaş, I mean, I don't pronounce your name for teasing, you're my friend, we're colleagues. You guys are having a meeting on Monday, but I don't think you know each other. Mr. Nurettin Canikli, who attended the Council on July 1st, was forced to take a vacation by the Civil Charter. We merged the AKP Group's proposal with the Parliament's proposal. We signed under it. The Parliament won't go on vacation on July 1st. We'll discuss this law after that. Mr. Nurettin Canikli is here, Mr. Idris Baluken and Mevlüt Aslanoglu of the CHP Group... where we will discuss the law of Torba, which should be on vacation on July 1st, we will take a vacation. This is the Council meeting we held on Tuesday, after the meeting we held on Monday. We signed under it. For the past four or five months, there's been no decision from the Council of Counsellors here, but we signed up that day, even though it was our own group proposal, but then wherever it was, whatever it was... Our objection is that, as far as we're concerned, there's no internal danger. Therefore, this bill that you have brought out of the domestic danger agenda may not be for you, according to us. So, who, where, what did he talk about, you break the agreement we've come to, and then you put two clauses in these 43 articles of Turkish Armed Forces law again? Even though you know our reaction, you're putting those two clauses in here to dynamite the settlement, which is the truth, which we object to. Otherwise, Mr. Nurettin Canikli will not go on vacation on July 1st, as Mr. Nurettin Canikli has decided. We will take a vacation after the Parliament has passed the bag of legislation. We are in the agreement. But then, without consulting us, to break this agreement and bring an international contract here for this reason, and therefore bring this law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not right, it's not right. That's breaking the compromise. To express it...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0024par0056	Mr. Şandir, the Speaker of Parliament has spoken to political parties. He said, "This is what we do on him."
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0023par0057	I can't do this.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0025par0058	Thank you. Melda Onur, MP of İstanbul, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0026par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a pledge in favor of a new motion for research on freedom of the press, perhaps over and over again, in favor of a motion for research that has been rejected. I've had a similar conversation recently about the state of prisons here, and I think I'm going to do a similar one now about freedom of the press. Now, I'm an ex-journalist -- we already know that our friends -- let me tell you a little bit about what it would have been like in the old days. Let's face it, there's always pressure on the press, no one can deny it. But, in the old times when we were journalists -- in those times when we were left-wing -- I was a journalist during the reigns of the right-wing authorities, such as Ozal, Tansu Ciller, Demirel -- yes, I was a journalist during the reigns of former politicians -- I mean, there would be a variety of interventions in our news, but at least we could get that news into the newspaper, and then our managers would adjust it a little bit, but at this point today, they can't get into the building, not into the paper. At this moment, let alone the self-control of reporters, with direct boss-level phone calls, page one requested in the morning, and instructions on television, unfortunately, they can't be delivered. The current situation is at least the worst period in the history of the media that I've witnessed. Now, we've actually seen the evidence of this in recent times of travel. How did it happen? With these recent arrests, boss-level adjustments, he thought he was in power because the press, the free press, the free press were a pain in the ass, but unfortunately there was another pain in the ass. This was a bird, too much gummy, and the Prime Minister said there was a troublemaker named Twitter. Why is Twitter such a pain in the ass? Because no matter how hard you push, freedom of speech, freedom of report, freedom of speech, freedom of speech, somehow erupts from somewhere. That's how social media came to be the new free media. Of course, while we were watching the streets from these new free media, the mainstream media was giving another bird, the penguins living in the poles, being watched by the public without trouble. But I think at some point they saw the truth, too, that when international connections, international channels showed this activity, they had to show it on their own channel. Now, if this was an independent media, maybe this was a very complaining, so they wrote a lie. (Laughter, they manipulated, directed people.) There would be no complaints in the form of the mainstream media, let alone other media, would be able to give these images, freely write their news, and maybe no one would take credit for social media. Unfortunately, recent media pressure, arrests, layoffs have opened such an area to social media. So, there's no need to complain. We see that many of our opposing friends in this travel process have left work on their own -- the reasons for leaving work, the reasons for not being able to do enough journalism -- have been laid off in the publications seized by the TMSF. Just yesterday, a writer we thought was very valuable, unfortunately, a government sympathizer who was fired from a newspaper by staff through human resources -- I don't want to mention his name here -- I'm really sorry. It's as humiliating as it is when you come to the door and your card doesn't work. Now, while I'm here, I've been away from you during this Travel Park, and I want you to hear from me, because as a journalist, I've actually been able to watch Travel Park like a journalist, beyond being a MP. And what we've seen is that the parliamentary democracy doesn't work here, you see, Mr. Shandir, as if some of the decisions here don't apply... sir, we don't have immunity out there, unfortunately we've seen it. I thought we were untouchable, but we're not. I'd like to take you to the morning of May 31st. Before May 31st, you know, a very small environmental action, unfortunately with the indiscriminate force of the police, which I think is, I think, the interest lobby is that cop because the person who sprays pepper spray on a defenseless, helmetless woman and runs behind her is the one who conspires. I don't know if there's an investigation into that cop, the interest lobby, the Jewish lobby, the liquor lobby, whatever. The citizen there called Istanbul MPs on Twitter. I don't know. Did he call you? They probably called you guys, so here I see the Istanbul MPs from the ruling party, but they called us, and we had to go there as the nation's deputy, and we went. On the evening of May 30th, there was a festival there, a full festival. It's called, you know, "marginal" or "radical" or something like that, there's a bunch of groups that I don't know exactly what they are, so they're not an illegal organization. Here, concerts have been played, and I'm there late, so stay with your friends, keep watch. We're waiting. They said to me, "Yes, Deputy, I think the police will operate here." I said, "It's not possible. He must be crazy." I mean, to such a peaceful group, there's not a single non-violent slogan... there's singing, there's talk going on. It's not possible. I said he wouldn't, so it can't be. No, it wouldn't be, it wouldn't be. It's late. They're a little less people. There are environmental groups, the Brotherhood of the Creeks, you know, the HES activists. Then we looked, and there was a movement, and we stood up, and went, and went, and went to the army. And we looked at it, and we said, "What if we're the Istanbul MP?" And that night there was Ilhan Cihaner and Müslim Sarı. They know Ilhan Cihaner, who is more famous than we are, so we introduced ourselves. And then I turned around, and I said, "Oh, no, no, no, no, no. We're the MPs. Let's get ahead of them. We'll stop them when they get here. They won't attack us. Because I, to tell you the truth, was used to it. When we went to various KESK activities, I heard something called "Ya, MPs are here." I mean, there was a measure, and we walked in front of three people without helmets, glasses -- I'm so sure we could stop the police, and we said, "Stop. I mean, the flares at my feet, the pepper spray that hurt my eyes, the pepper spray that took my breath away, it didn't hurt me to see that we weren't immune, you guys, and unfortunately, during this trip, we've seen that we don't have immunity. The most painful... and we've been called several times. We've already been pepper sprayed. You'll say, "How will he know if you're there?" We went to the governor, and we said, "Do you know that there are trustees here?" The governor said: "We know who goes in that park, who goes out, which marginal, which radical, which organization, which organization, which organization, the moment-by-second." And finally, you know, the Court Hotel broke her nose by throwing a helmet in the face of the Amassian MP who tried to talk to the police to help them pass the ambulances in front of the hotel. And I'm stuck at the Court Hotel, kind of like a Die Hard. I don't know if you've ever seen it. - The wounded, the moaning, the pepper spray... when we had to escape when the pepper spray was thrown in, a woman said, "Why aren't you shielding us?" I said, "I'm so sorry, deputy, but we can only be partners in pepper spray, copa, helmet, pressure, and unfortunately, we can't shield you anymore, because as far as we can see, with this cop, we're out of immunity on the streets. Now, why did I tell you all this? I wanted you to see it in my eyes. Now, I'll tell you one last thing: you know, it's like they're trying to throw stones at the police, they're marginal, they're radical groups, they're the first four days, there's no such thing. But for the first four days, the woman in red, who was throwing pepper spray at a couple of people out there out of proportion, the pepper gas was thrown into the air, and the pepper gas was shot directly into the target to make people escape when the gas spread. After all this happened, I think someone wanted to defend these friends. But I'll tell you this: you know what they call a rainmaker or something? Is a T-shirt stolen from inside a store on Istiklal Street? I'll say thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0027par0077	Thank you. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, Antalya MP, has asked for a statement against the Peace and Democracy Party Group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0028par0080	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute your high council. Freedom of the press, news, information, thought and opinion are entitled to free access, expression and spread through mass communication tools. In order for freedom of the press to take place, three key elements are required: one, the right to access information, information. In our country, he has a clear right to access information, information, information. The other second is the right of information, of news, of thought to be explained. Third, the right to spread that information, thought and conviction with news, interpretation and visual product. These are the essential elements of press freedom, which is about this in our country... and I'm a telecommunicator, I've studied communications, and that's what we've been taught, and these are the conditions that are necessary for the continuation of press freedom. In international law, freedom of the press is also organised in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We, of course, have done serious work on it for ten years. I, in particular, want to read to you the 10th article of the European Convention on Human Rights: the use of freedom of press can only be limited to the need of a democratic society, to the rights and rights of others, to the national security of public health and morality, to the protection of public order and territorial integrity, to prevent public secrets or crime, to maintain authority and neutrality of the power of the judiciary. There's no reason he can't be a member of a terrorist organization with a yellow press card, no reason he can't be a thief. So what happened earlier -- there's a misunderstanding in the public opinion, and it's in the press -- is that when you look at its contents, it's actually completely consistent with what I just said. In the Press Act...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0029par0084	Who's the thief?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0028par0085	If you listen, I'll continue. There's no way that journalist's sources in the Press Act...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0029par0087	I wonder who the thief journalist is. Perhaps Mr. Hasip Kaplan would know.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0028par0088	...can not be forced to explain, nor can the fines be converted into a binding punishment, except for sanctions against artifacts, destruction and corruption elephants, which were printed with correction and the publication of the answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, freedom of the press in a democratic country is one of the essentials.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0030par0090	So there's no Turkey!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0028par0091	We've never been in favor of one-voice press.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0031par0092	What about the evening paper, the Evening paper?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0028par0093	On the contrary, we defended too much noise. Look, I also want to say that censorship is also mentioned, but the existence of safe, qualified press organizations in our country is essential to the continuation of the democratic process. As much as the opposition from the biased press, we're as uncomfortable as you are because there are a number of media in this country trying to impose unresolved events on society through channels that seem to have happened. Let us not forget, however, that when the facts are being told, we also watch images that have been broadcast through deflection, as they were broadcast today, on several channels, as if they had happened today. I also condemn the press organizations that spin those publications 24 hours without even having to write, not freedom, my friends.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0032par0096	You are also a candidate for the editor-in-chief of Hurriyet. You have received the evening. He is a candidate for the general broadcast regulation, and he is a candidate after Mehmet January and has graduated from the faculty of communication.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0028par0097	In the last ten years, we will continue to expand our publications to harmonise our laws with the European Union and, more importantly, to increase our citizens' rights, freedom of the press. Because we think it's one of the tools of participating democracy, freedom of the press. Whatever happens, we're committed to it. As a result, we've taken serious steps to further the freedom of press and expression in Turkey in recent years. In this parallel, we will continue to take these steps with a liberal understanding. With these thoughts, I say we are against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0033par0101	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0034par0102	There were five minutes left.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0035par0103	Mr. President, freedom of the press in Turkey has been described by the ruling party for no more than five minutes, sir, in order to get it on the record.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0036par0104	You're so funny!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0037par0105	Peace and Democracy Party, I submit the group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (7/2013), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The proposal for parliament to investigate and determine the issues of temporary village rangers, whose friends, on May 24, 2012, have given 5131 points and the head of the TBM, and on Thursday 4/7/2013, was read in the Elaziğ MP Enver Erdem on the part of the Grand National Assembly's Committee for General Discussion and Assembly Review. On behalf of the group's proposal, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0038par0121	Mr. President, I stand before you to address the problems of our temporary and voluntary village rangers, the respected members of the Turkish nation; the separatist, destructive, separatist terror. I salute your high council. We had just moved the problems of the village rangers, a key element of security forces in the fight against terrorism, to the Turkish National Assembly as the National Movement Party in the past month. Perhaps you have noticed that under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the issue was re-opened within a short period of time. But as of today, as of July 2013, our rangers have very serious, alarming problems. Due to the urgency, importance, and Vahame of the matter, the situation of our rangers must once again be discussed, attention must be drawn to the Rangers. As I begin my discussion, I would like to first share with you some information about the protection system: the concept of the village rangers has come to the attention of Village Law 442 of 1924. Turkey's society, the target mass of total development with the founding of the Republic, lived in villages by 80 per cent. So the understanding of that day, which put a special position on the village chief with the Village Law, gave the order of the village chief some sort of law enforcement system called the law enforcement force. The village rangers were a law enforcement force to protect the lives, lives, property of the people living in the village from the bandits and the real marauders, and they successfully carried out their duties until the 1980s. On March 26, 1985, a change in Article 74 of Village Law 442 in the focus of the terrorist incidents was committed by the temporary village ranger system. According to the law, the governor's proposal and the approval of the Interior Minister can be assigned enough temporary village guards in the provinces established by the Council of Ministers on the rise of serious signs of violence in the village or around it, or for whatever reason the village's life and property has increased. All operations concerning temporary village rangers are carried out according to Law 5673, which amended the 74th Amendment of the Village Law on 442, and the provisions of the Interim Village Rangers, which were issued by the Council of Ministers, in order to ensure unity and implementation by the Minister of Interior. The temporary village ranger system, launched in 22 provinces in 1985, continued in the state of emergency declared in 1987, started paying the rangers in 1992, and increased the number of cities where the system was implemented to 35. The temporary village ranger system is a structure designed and implemented by citizens living there against the separatist terrorist organization, designed and armed to defend their own households, family members, their own villages, and their own homelands with their own consent. The number of temporary and voluntary village rangers has changed from time to time, but has exceeded 80,000 during the busy period of terrorism. According to recent reports from the Ministry of Interior, there are temporary village rangers who are subject to close to 46,000 fees. There is a volunteer village ranger with only a gun, who does not charge more than 20,000 people, and a total of about 66,000 people. Until today, temporary and voluntary village rangers, soldiers and police, have served their duty in the fight against terrorism with their comrades. Forestry has been a sign of a social stand against terrorism and terrorism in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. The Rangers and their families have formed a social group of tribes that resists the terrorist organization in the region. At first, the rangers have squandered their right of self-determination in the international public, and now their right to self-determination in our internal public, the dreams of separatist ideas, ambitions, to the integrity of the state. An important part is the Turkish state, which is of Kurdish origin, and is in love with the Turkish nation, the rangers. Rangers and their families have proved their loyalty to the state and to the nation, living in the most difficult conditions and risking death. They're actually the most traumatized civilian population that's ever paid the maximum price. However, all these traumas have not changed the upright and honorable position of the rangers. The village rangers are a major threat to the PKK because of their knowledge of the territory, because they know where they can live, what they can do, what their powers can be, who they can relate to the separatist terrorist organization. Our village rangers spend their whole lives where they work because it's their home. That's why they're on the bandit's target board for three hundred and sixty-five days and twenty-four hours. For him, the problems of our village rangers must be resolved at once, and this matter must be a duty for all of us. The temporary and voluntary village rangers have given 1,696 martyrs and 1,916 wounded and veterans so far to rule the Turkish state for the undivisable integrity of the Turkish flag. In exchange for their upright stances and services, our village rangers are under the age of hunger for between $810 and $880. And this year's salary increase has been at a funny level like $10. These months the rangers receive are a low number of Turkish standards. In particular, according to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency in June 2013, the hunger limit is 1,022 Turkish liras, the poverty limit is 3,328 Turkish liras, and it is not even close to meeting the hunger limit, let alone 810 euros. All rangers, along with volunteer rangers, must be paid at least the amount of 1,600 lira paid for contractors. Volunteers and temporary village rangers with significant problems in everything, including social security premiums, pensions, working hours, daily and rations, have been pushed into isolation under government policies, particularly called the process of peace. In accordance with the demands of separatist and destructive terrorist elements, the village rangers have been abandoned to the initiative of PKK and political extensions, not to solve their problems. The village rangers, who have been left alone in the area of the PKK and political extensions they've been fighting for for years, are known to have been victims of one-on-one murders, especially those who have succeeded in fighting terrorism, and their perpetrators are PKK-based terrorists. As the so-called opening process of the AKP government continues, the terrorists' actions towards our rangers continue. According to media reports, on 13 March 2013, Mehmet Sait Coşkun, our bodyguard in Şırnak Province, was killed by terrorists in the middle of the street. Again, Ramadan Erkan, one of our temporary village rangers recently was killed in the district of Silopi, Şırnak. Mehmet Güven has lost their lives in Cizre, Sıtki Unat Uludere Shenoba, Ali Nat Şırnakta, Ali Kılıç Cizre. According to our information, these rangers have achieved great success in the fight against terrorism. The terrorist organization is alleged to have a list of executions related to our rangers, and they are said to have committed the murders according to this list. It is believed that after the terrorist organization left the area with the wrong policies of the government, the rangers in the region -- like a witch hunt -- martyred them one by one. In last May, one of our village rangers Abdülvahap Ilhan was kidnapped by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and is still not heard from. Do the security forces and the government have a study of Abdülvahap Ilhan and other kidnapped rangers? In the words of Necip Fazil, the government has left our guards strange in their own home. In the words of Necip Fazil, the government put the father and father in the mirror. The government is still weak enough to imagine that terrorists would abandon their weapons and leave the attack on our rangers. If the government is not weak and is not making an effort to deal with them, does the government consider the PKK to be decent, faithful Turkish citizens? When the government talks about the separatist terrorist organization, they do not use statements such as separatist, terrorist, or bloody killer, or even have been appointed by the Prime Minister to become a spokesman for the PKK. Akiller, the PKK has written its report as a solution to whatever it wants. Or is the government thinking the same thing as the PKK, asking the same thing? We want to hear the answer to these questions under the roof of Parliament. In addition to all these questions, the integration of villages and villages, including the city's protection system, and abandonment of separatist environments, has brought the problems of the rangers to the tops. The government is throwing rangers into PKK's lap. With these thoughts, I request the acceptance of our motion, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0039par0141	Thank you. Mehmet Ersoy, Sinop MP, has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0040par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the nationalist Movement Party's proposal to investigate and improve the issues of temporary village rangers and improve their economic and social rights. I salute your high council. As we were talking about this again a month ago, as I was saying, the fact that we made a promise against this proposal does not mean that we would be insensitive to the problems of our village rangers in economic, social areas if there is one. Let's not deal with these problems. Of course it doesn't. This is only because we wish that the law talks that bring new regulations in many areas from working conditions of public institutions to some of the problems of public institutions, which are on the agenda of our Parliament today, will continue without interruption from business to financial life. Of course, all arrangements for our rangers will be made. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, the village ranger system is a temporary measure in order to protect the safety and safety of our people in the residential areas in which our security forces will find it difficult to reach, and to ensure that they live in a safer way. Unfortunately, the increasing violence of terrorism has led to the growth of the initially estimated 40,000 numbers, reaching up to some 70 thousand at a time. Of course, it is not possible for our village rangers today to ignore these sacrifices, especially not today, not at all their economic rights, not at all, not at all, not at all, nor at all at all at all at all at the expense of their economic rights, not at all, nor at all at all at all at all at the expense of their lives. The state of the Republic of Turkey will continue to take care of every son of their country who serves it and give them the best rights they deserve, in spite of the opportunities the country has provided for them. During our rule period, there were many regulations concerning both economic and financial rights and social rights, which were initially allowed to reach a far better place than when they started in the 1985s. As you all know, today our village rangers receive a considerable salary; pensions are paid to pension pensions to pensioners, 55 years old and fifteen years old; all benefits to relatives of martyrs, martyrs and veterans. Besides, when we spoke a month ago, when we discussed this, as I said, I explained that our government was working on the rights of our temporary village rangers, which were conducted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. As of today, these studies have been largely completed, and I hope that as an offer from the EC PARTY Group before our work is completed, the proposals to improve the rights of our temporary village rangers will be presented to our great Parliament, our General Assembly, and I now wish our village rangers good luck. From now on, I'd like to express our sensitivity to the rights of both our rangers and to the rights of all our civil servants fighting for the safety of our country, peace, and peace of mind. Congressmans, on this occasion, especially after yesterday's painful incident in Egypt, I would like to express my opinion on these matters. Dear friends, it is the greatest insult, the greatest injustice to the nation's will and the chosen ones, to accept that the coups can happen no matter what excuse or reason. The coupters have agreed to impose their will on the nation with only the power of the weapon they hold in their hands, and in spite of all the mistakes that the chosen ones have done, they have agreed to admit to a whole nation that they have done absolutely right, in fact psychologically and spiritually, they are representatives of a disabled and sick logic. The acceptance of this logic in any way, the insinuation of this logic in any way is no longer acceptable to any democratic understanding today. After yesterday's coup against the Mursi administration in Egypt, it is a joy that all four of our political parties have condemned and rejected this coup, but it is truly sad that some of our politicians still have to make αamakin (politicians) statements, suggesting Turkish politics, Turkish politicians, learn lessons from them. No coupger can teach legitimate politicians a lesson. No coupger can learn from violence, from oppression, from terror, from those who rule the country. What politicians would think, however, would not give these coupters any opportunity, would be the idea of exposing a system of governance that would never be considered a solution, to the will of the nation at all times and on every platform. For this reason, dear friends, all of our political actors must pay attention to their remarks at such times, not from the coupters, but from the lessons taken from the coups of our history in the past, in no way and only in the third world and democracies, and the fact that actions and actions that have been seen in our country have not been taken into account by some people and parts of our country, I salute you all, and I salute you all, not to be accepted by any part of the community of the community.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0041par0154	Thank you. In favour of the group's proposal from the National Movement Party, Levent Gök, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0042par0157	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. The issue we've been discussing has been a subject of Turkey's politics for some 20 years, since long ago, as problems. It's complicated, but there's not much that our parties can agree on about solutions. Mr. President, in Article 128 of our Constitution, the main and permanent tasks required by public services, officers and other public officials, which the state is obliged to conduct according to the general administration of the state, public economic initiatives and other public administrations. Thus, a state-run public service, such as security, must be carried out by officers and other public servants, but in 1924, along with Village Law 442, has been implemented and has been transformed into temporary village rangers, whose borders and jurisdictions have been unknowingly changed in 1985, while they do not have a status in the security field, such as security and gendarme staff, and have not passed through similar trainings and armed with similar powers and weapons. The government's attempt to serve in a sensitive field of service that could pose a threat to human rights, such as security, temporary and status, vague, underprivileged, is incompatible with the legal state, and incompatible with human rights. Dear lawmakers, as we have seen recently in travel events, the use of disproportionate force is of great importance to the training of security forces, as we have seen recently when one of our friends was killed by fire from a police station in lice. In fact, it is clear that the temporary village rangers are deeply displeased with the system they are in. According to a 2011 field study, unemployment and poverty are the main reason for his desire to become a temporary village ranger. When 55 percent of the rangers say they are unhappy with the system, the ratio of those who want to continue to work at 93 per cent clearly shows that the system is viewed as an employment opportunity. Since they are temporary village rangers, the proportion of those who say they have not faced any difficulties is only 4 percent. According to the research results, temporary village rangers are demanding improvement of working conditions and rights and opportunities to work in other institutions. Dear lawmakers, in 1985, the amendment was mentioned in the matter of creating temporary village rangers, for reasons that require a state of emergency. Since the state of emergency was known to have been terminated ten years ago, it is a fact that the grounds in our country have been eliminated for temporary village rangers. The important thing is, we need to take measures to create jobs for the village rangers who say they're applying for a job. We, the Republican People's Party, are primarily targeting the development of the region, while we also care about the village rangers, whose numbers are around 70-80,000. Dear lawmakers, we are aware that our primary goal for the development of the east and southeast is to transfer sufficient public resources to the region. The state must take responsibility for development here. Public leadership should promote entrepreneurship. Post-privatisation facilities should be brought into the economy. In the region, social government practices must be accelerated. The right to citizenship should be paid for fighting poverty and zero hunger, as well as the implementation of health care projects without charge. Minefields must be cleaned and accrued to agriculture. The mines in the border areas must be quickly cleared under the responsibility of the Turkish Armed Forces, and must be assigned to the landless or low-territorial peasant who lives in the environment and is organised within agricultural co-ops, provided the Ministry of Agriculture operates organic agriculture under widespread supervision. The socioeconomic wounds created by the conflict period in the region must be fast-tracked. In Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, the quality of life must be rapidly contributed to the rapid development of economic harms, rights and law created by the terrorist environment, and all socioeconomic measures are to be taken within the framework of tolerance. The return of the evacuated villages must be ensured, allowing the return of these villages under the security and voluntary criteria. As it turns out, we need to assess the village rangers not only as a means of employment, but also in terms of development and development of the region, and we need to include them in the economic system of southeast and east. We, the Republican People's Party, see that this system is due to the state's security weakness and that the village rangers are now more unsustainable because of this deficit caused by the state's failure to carry out security forces' duties. Therefore, with the legal proposals we've given, we recommend that temporary village rangers and working conditions be improved, their rights be restored, but as a result, the temporary village rangers are removed, and if the state has actual security forces, then they will carry out their duties. In our proposal for the law, we give our village rangers a hundred and eighty days of wear and tear for every year they work. In this way, those who serve ten years will have a 15-year term of service, and by reducing their retirement age to 45, we provide the right to retire while they work for 15 years of service. When we discuss this, I hope that all parties will make a common statement of will and will. And those who don't fill their age or working time, we allow them to work in public institutions until they meet these conditions, so we hope that the village rangers will be granted social security to satisfy and fulfill their demands, not immediately liquidating them. The Republican People's Party is a party that founded parliamentary democracy in Turkey and led Turkey to the multi-party system. The opinion of the Republican People's Party was very clear and clear in the military coup that took place in Egypt yesterday. The state of the Republican People's Party, which advocates human rights, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and multi-party political life, is clear against coups. The Republican People's Party, wherever it is in the world, even when it is spoken of in Turkey, has always been in the face of coups, and will continue to face them. In this regard, you must all remember that the Republican People's Party was one of the most damaged parties in the past tense. There's nothing more important to all of us than a party that's a victim of coups, of course, in the face of a coup wherever it is in the world. The Republican People's Party and all its members are completely opposed to coups, especially to all its most basic members, the President of the Republic. In Turkey, we want to run democracy. In Turkey, we want to talk about our problems and definitely solve them in the chest. All members of the Republican People's Party that aims to do so will, without doubt, stand fearlessly in the face of tanks going down the street. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0043par0172	Thank you. Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu MP...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0044par0174	Mr. Salih Husband will speak, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0043par0175	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0045par0177	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment against the nationalist movement group proposal. I salute your high council. Since the first day the Justice and Development Party was formed, the opportunities needed to maintain justice in order to defend the rights and laws of the 75 million living in this country have done all necessary work within the resources of our state, and will continue to do so. The important thing is to keep unity and unity in our country, to keep the brotherhood, to make peace with the nation, and to make this country a peaceful country. Since the day it was founded, we have protected and observed the rights and laws of our workers, our officers, and, in short, all of our employees, and, as we did not crush inflation during this time, on inflation, over the decade, even though there was inflation that reached 140 percent, I believe our government and party's policies will continue in the same way, with the same precision. I believe, on this occasion, that in the following period, the rights and laws of both our village rangers and our employees who have fought for the unity and unity of this entire country will be protected and protected. I think it would be appropriate for our General Assembly to continue their work in accordance with the established work and schedule, and I declare that we are against the MHP group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0046par0183	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0047par0184	Mr. President, the decision is enough.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit02spe0046par0185	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the nationalist Movement Party group proposal has not been accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Thursday/7/2013 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 11/4/2013, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey and 24 lawmakers recommended that it be read in a joint session Thursday (7/7/2013) to be presented before other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (852 rows) in order to reveal the responsible for the Great Assembly of Turkey's events, its objectives and elements behind the incidents. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, The Flood Köse, Corum MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0048par0020	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party is the party of a tradition that brings multi-party life to our country, political history and political life while the fascist dictators, Mussolini, Hitler, Franco, Salazar, and so on, are in power, while power exists. With this historic mission, the Republican People's Party has principledly opposed and fought against any outside intervention in the will of the nation, the will of the people. In this sense, we want to be known that we are against and condemning the military coup in Egypt. However, after the polling vote, I wish that we could all learn a lesson in the sensibilities of the masses, not being blocked or given opportunity to opportunists. I want to greet the poor Egyptian people here with a verse from our national poet Nazim Hikmet. My brother from Egypt, Our songs are brother and sister, Our names are brother and sister, Our poverty is brother and sister, We're tired, brother. Mr. President, I have made a promise to the Republican People's Party regarding the proposal to open the Parliamental investigation, which is one of the key stones on the road to the fascist coup on September 12th, to expose the perpetrators of the Chorum massacre, to reveal the secret behind the incidents, the massacre, to reveal the secret of the massacre. I hereby salute your high council. Today, July 4, 2013, the 33rd anniversary of the Çorum massacre is the day when 57 of our citizens -- including elderly, pregnant women, children and disabled -- were burned, shot, stabbed, tortured -- began 33 years ago at the end of May 1980, and sometimes at about 40 days in two stages. 17 people were slaughtered on July 4th alone. I bow before his memories with respect. The mass murder cannot be judged from political killings across the country, from Gazi incidents, Malatya, Maraş massacres, 1969 blood markets, May 1, 1977, from the Gardenlievs massacre. These massacres are a stone that leads to September 12th, forcing the leftist and Alevis to emigrate, suppressing social opposition, suppressing pressure and massacres in Eastern, Southeast and internal Anatolia, in which domestic collaborators and ethnic and sectarian communities live. New ones can't be stopped without being faced with massacres. As Mr. Mehmet Shandir, deputy director of the MHP Group, said, I'm not here today to talk about bleeding wounds. It is also important that what happened in the majority, what happened in Sivas, what happened in Gazi, what happened in Uludere, should not be erased from memory. The mass slaughter has not been illuminated, it must be illuminated; it is not possible for real democracy to come to our country without being enlightened, and democracy to be internalized. Dear friends, July 4, 1980, where 17 people have been slaughtered, is a date and event that must never be forgotten. It's also a date we should never forget or forget on July 2, 1993. So is Gazitown, so is Uludere, and May 1st is history and events that must not be forgotten and forgotten. However, to save such hatred and hatred, not to restore our pain, but to forget and forget that such suffering will never, ever happen again. To find the perpetrators, the perpetrators, the perpetrators, and punish them most severely, you have to remember and not let them forget. To remove such barbarism from this land and from the earth forever, it must be remembered and not forgotten. We won't, we won't. So, my dear friends, after thirty-three years of the massacre in Çorum, after twenty years of the Sivas massacre, have these killings been eliminated? Has the political climate been softened, more democratic, or is there much difference between the atmosphere of the massacre and today's atmosphere? Has the rhetoric of the authorities changed? Has the speech of the politicians changed? We all know, and we see that none of them have changed. In fact, there are so many similarities that I'd like to share some with you. For example, the beginning of the events in Çorum, which led to the killing of 17 people on July 4th, coincides with a Friday, and on Friday, a mosque was bombed and killed by Muslims, and the slander goes through many places, including the police radio in Chorum. What does that remind us of? Today, Mr. Prime Minister says that alcohol was consumed in a mosque in Istanbul and there were immoral acts, a number of people are stirring up discrimination. Again, what did TRT do with this whole trip thing? The TRT also provoked the incident of a Turkish flag that had happened in the past, in other places, by making our people in Turkey watch it over and over again. So, what did TRT do in 1980? In 1980, the accused of killing Muslims, bombing mosques, killing Muslims, has provoked people over and over and over with subtitles and news, the same head, the same mentality. Well, one week before the start of the May 19th incident, again, a community called the Muslim Brothers (Muslims) or the Muslim Youths (Muslims) turns people on by using their clothes as an excuse to dress up girls. So, in the Travel Park -- let me remind you -- again, in the Prime Minister's words: they smelled of piss, where people found condoms. He provoked a number of groups against the people who lived there. And only the Prime Minister does that? It's not just the Prime Minister, it's all representatives of power. Bulent Arinc is troubled by the 10th Year's March. What are you worried about, brother? The 10th Year's March? You're uncomfortable with 15 million young people?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0049par0036	We come to the 100th year.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0048par0037	He's getting nervous. Are you uncomfortable with railroads, iron nets, or are you uncomfortable with open foreheads? Tell him that, that's what this citizen wants to know.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0050par0038	That's what we do, too. We knitted Turkey with iron nets.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0048par0039	And only the government does that? Mayors do it, mayors do it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0051par0040	We wrote the 100th year anthem.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0048par0041	Look, brother, look, my friends...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0051par0042	You're still in the 10th year.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0048par0043	...Bent Arinc is referring to one of our members of parliament, who I was thinking about, and I was thinking, "Why do they call the Deputy Prime Minister?," why do they call the Deputy Prime Minister? He goes to Brünt Ariç Çorum, where he gives his name to a park where he has not been reinstated by a court order that has not yet been cleared, and with a Parliament order, he doesn't say, "Mr...." Listen to the Councilman, I address you from here. He commits crimes, disrespects, attacks the values of our country, and attacks the values of the republic. So, what else do we do? The mayors, the mayor of Çorum, look, your friend from the 22nd term. The mayor of Çorum, who, according to us, has claimed the values of the republic, in Turkey, in the establishment of republic law, in the establishment of republican law, and in the translation of republican law, in the introduction of self-proclaiming, Professor Dr. Hüfzit Velidet Velideoğlu named the park after Professor Velideoğlu, but in another park, he gives the name of Mr. Atif Hoxha the criminal and the criminal. My dear friends, they don't end with these things, none of which serve social peace. Mr. Prime Minister, he describes the people who were killed as his sect, saying that 54 Sunni citizens were killed. Now, of course, despite all that's happened, the Alevis have not given up on their demand for equal citizenship and their beliefs and their belief and their belief, and they will never give up. I mean, isn't the belief of the Alevi, as you say, faith? I mean, why don't you build the temples, why don't you object to the building of the temples? I mean, do you think the Alevis are going to sell their faith for two cents just because you don't buy electricity or water money? I mean, do you sell your beliefs and the Alekis sell them for money? Let them worship at the mosque. Is that a word to be said? Democratic rights and freedoms, my dear friends, cannot be negotiated. When democratic rights and freedoms will not be negotiated, true democracy will come to our country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0052par0049	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0052	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I declare that we are against the Republican People's Party group proposal. First of all, I would like to say that on the 33rd anniversary, I ask God's mercy to both Sivas and Kahramanmarash, and to those who lost their lives on May 1st, and to their relatives my condolences again. Just now, the preacher said something, he said, "I'm against the fight." I'm really against the coup, against the rule of law, against democracy, against a democratic MP, but... he can't make a sentence that starts with... Again, Çorum mentioned that the mayor of Çorum had changed the name of the park or street in the name of Çifzi Veldet Velideoglu, and had changed the name of the city's former Atef Hodja. He is Veldet Velidet Velideoğlu, and I am a graduate of İstanbul Law School, and there is an amphitiation at İstanbul Law School. And I said to myself, "Why is there a name in a school that raises a man of law and raises a democrat?" Because, you know, Hüfzü Veldet Velideoğlu is a teacher who, unfortunately, says to generals after the revolution, "Let's prepare the constitution as you want it to be." Of course, he would give the name of Mr. Atef the Skelipite. As Scyclical Atef Hodja was taken to the gallows, he was executed, unfortunately, with false trials and a false warrant. Of course, it's been given to the mayor of Çorum to live up to his name. And I pay my respects to my victorious brother. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, there were some incidents coming up in 1980. What's the basis? It's based on laying the groundwork for a coup. Those who lay the groundwork for the coupe carry the milestones carefully and carefully. One of the reasons is to create a legitimate basis in society. By creating chaotic environments, creating unsolved murders, causing unsolved murders, and on the other hand, by terrorizing the streets with the ability of illegal organizations, deep structures, by creating power, election, polling, polling the national will, by humiliating it, it's a good thing there's an army, and they're trying to create chaotic environments to make them say that there are structures.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0054par0060	The Prime Minister provokes it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0061	One of the most important indicators of this is the famous Maraş events, the Chorus events again. Well, can you say that there was no coup after the May Day events, May 1st events, and the Maraş events? These unsolved murders were created to create the basis for the coup. As for the judges and prosecutors and those who were tried at the time, we said to those who raised their right hand and prayed: "We said to those who raised their left hand (to pray)." The same weapon was given to the right-wingers, the left-wingers were killed in the afternoons; the left-wingers were given weapons in the afternoons; the right-wingers were killed. The ulcers were given weapons, the communists were killed, the communists were given weapons, the economists were killed.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0055par0063	Let go of the ulcers, tell me about yourself.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0064	Dear friends, these people were killed by the same gun with the same bullet. This was the product of a completely deep structure. So we have to be careful. As a matter of fact, those who tried to create a chaotic environment in the country along with the unsolved murders tried to tear apart people of different religion, citizens of the 60 revolutions, along with the events of September 6-7. By the time we reached 80, the Alevi-Sunni conflict, the ulterior-communist conflict, the non-believer conflict, and they succeeded.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0056par0065	Who's the communist?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0057par0066	Where were you?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0067	Once again, when we came to the 28th of February, remember from one period, friends, was it not the same until five or six years ago? In fact, all of this was one of the chosen ways to create the basis for a coup. As a matter of fact, because they were unable to manage the economy, there was a crisis in 2002, and the people of the people of the nation were elected to power, and they tried to hit the AK PARTI government in the same way. What kind of blow was that? They found that they couldn't terrorize the streets, they tried to do things with deep structures, and they didn't get anything out of it. After that, they created 367 freaks in the presidential election process. What did they want to do when they didn't get any results? They filed a lawsuit against the government, which was legally elected by the people. All these structures, they were illegal. But they forgot one thing, and when the EC PARTY came to power after 2002, what the opposition forgot was that the people of the nation, the people of the nation, came to power, and they took power from the nation, and they kept it above their head.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0058par0068	America's supporters had arrived, supporters of America.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0059par0069	February 28th was built to bring you to power.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0070	The power that holds this national will has never been seen until now. As a matter of fact, he wasn't one of those guys who saw the mail and took off with his hat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a result, the EC PARTY president had to stand up straight and believe in the state of democracy and law, and they were unable to create the impact environment. The mindset that could not create this impact was influenced by international connections in the Travel Park, where they tried to attack like the Moor who had been exposed to the rebellion. But the thing is, the building that designed the events in the Travel Park didn't buy them in that Travel Park.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0060par0073	Yeah, they lie, you believe, you believe.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0061par0074	They are on vacation; they are in the fountain, in the basement.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0075	As a result, there was also a good reason for those who made a scene in the Travel Park. Do you know what that reason is, dear friends? This structure, which had no hope of power, which, in fact, took the authority, the privilege, which they had not received from the chest, which was not based on the will of the chest, was somehow in power. But the snow fell on the mountains they trusted, and the structure was judged under the name Ergenekon, in Silivri. So they didn't get the courage from there, and they thought, "What kind of situation do we have?" They said, "Let's design the opposition party." They also designed the opposition party with a tape, but they didn't get any results from there. It's really desperate...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0060par0076	Why didn't you find the tape? You find a tweet, but why can't you find it? When someone does, they don't, do they?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0077	Guys, it's really hard to be desperate. It's so hard to be helpless that I understand your situation. Indeed, I understand the plight of our dear fellow citizens, our dear citizens, who have voted for you, who hope for you, and they are helpless. I wish you'd be the opposition, the candidate for power, and give those people hope. If you'd given those people hope, this whole Travel Park thing wouldn't have happened. Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you in part about some of the cases related to Chorum here. According to Sadık Eral, the lawyer who advocates cases in the country, the community engineers gave weapons to the left, the right-wingers died; the left-wing people gave the same weapon to the right, the left-wing people died; and the brothers were killed with the same weapon. Again, in connection with the cases of proliferation, then Chief Public Prosecutor Erum Türker says that the citizens of Alevi, who were shot with the same gun earlier in the afternoon, were shot with the same gun, and Sunni citizens who were shot with the same gun in the afternoon, were all killed with the same weapons.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0062par0081	Mr. President, we can't listen. Our friend says very important things.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0063par0082	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0083	In order to lay the groundwork for the coup d'état of September 12th, a series of events have been staged. It's a metaphor, a theater. After the coup of September 12th, most of our fellow citizens experienced bitter experience, and with great maturity...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0064par0084	The Prime Minister is doing the same today.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0063par0085	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0086	Dear Flood Köse, our dear countrymen, our fellow countrymen, have recognized this dirty scenario, and have not given the incentives to carry the events of the Travel Park to Chorum.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0065par0087	He burned the mosque in the stock. The people who said "Camide" and "Camide" are drinking in the same logic, the same mentality; it's the same provocation.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0063par0088	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0053par0089	I thank them, and I thank them, and I thank them, and I say, God bless them. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are no longer the former Turkey; there is a changing Turkey that has been developing since 2002. Those who had previously ruled the majority, who actually had privileges, who used the authority the nation didn't have, who began to lose their privileges and were given to representatives of the nation. The men of the people who took over the nation's authority went to the darkness, and it turned out that no one was exempted from judgment or law. All Turkey has witnessed that no one has prevented a gun or a barrel or rank or office or status or sect or race or religion or profession from being judged. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The rule of law, the equality. And that's what happened during the AK PARTY. Thanking the AK PARTY, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0066par0094	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0095	Mr. President accused me of being a coupger, even though I made it clear that I was opposed to the coup, along with the Republican People's Party tradition. I want to answer him for two minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0066par0096	What did he say to accuse you of being a coupger?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0097	I'm against the fight, but it doesn't suit an MP, starting with "I'm against it."
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0066par0098	Here you are, Mr. Köse, for two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'd like to start with Mr. Atef the Iskillite. My dear friends, jurisprudences know that a court's decision -- let the non-lawyers not speak out -- can be eliminated by a decision of extradition or by a pardon from the Turkish Grand National Assembly; neither of which is available for Scyclical Atef Hodja. I'm not arguing about the trial of St. Attef the Scyllite, but he has been charged with treason. His name being given to a park is a crime and a crime for praising a criminal.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0068par0105	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0106	When the time comes, you will be tried for this crime.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0069par0108	Wow! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0109	Plus, it won't be enough to save the Corum Mayor, who was charged with embezzling, conflict, conflict, corruption in the tender to name a park. And I'd like to say that from here, just so you know. Now, I've said that what was done on the road to September 12 is the same as what was done today, and I insist on it. I just said the Prime Minister is a coup artist, the Prime Minister is a coup artist. They dropped bombs on the same mosque, slaughtering Muslims.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0070par0111	Didn't you brag about those names?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0112	There's no difference to the mentality that says, "They're drinking in the mosque, they're doing illegal acts." The Prime Minister is doing it today, and other people did it yesterday.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0071par0113	You still don't get the picture, do you?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0114	Now, my dear friends, don't be a hero. There is no chance that any blow that America does not support will succeed. Today you have a very good relationship with America. What does your Prime Minister say?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0072par0115	Isn't he your Prime Minister?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0067par0116	Let not God separate the president of the United States from the way of Jesus Christ. You're getting along so well, there's no coup in Turkey. If America wants to divide you, it'll even cause a civilian coup, don't forget that. The Republican People's Party, which would then oppose this, is the majority and organisations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0073par0119	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0120	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me... Mr. orator, in all the governments that have ever lived, he has wronged former government members, prime ministers, by saying that only the current ruling party government and Mr. Prime Minister are members of the nation.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0075par0122	They took their hats and left.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0123	1960, 1961, 1971, 1974...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0075par0124	They took their hats and left.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0125	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0075par0126	You're rude! What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0127	I'm talking here, show some respect!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0076par0129	Don't say that...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0077par0130	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0131	In 1960, 1961, 1971, 1974 and 1980, every prime minister and government that ever lived outside of 1983 was a nation's man. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0077par0133	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0078par0134	They were the ones who took his hat and left...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0135	Speech!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0079par0136	They hung people, I can tell!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0078par0137	Look at you, you're the dirty one!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0138	Look, don't be a smartass, show some respect!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0080par0143	The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0081par0144	Mr. President, dear lawmakers of the people of Turkey, I salute you with love.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0146	What are you trying to do here? Learn to be a congressman first.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0082par0148	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0074par0149	Mr. President, there is no such thing. I'm talking here, he can't talk.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0082par0150	He's not going to talk to my friend on the stand. He's not gonna throw it away, and he's not gonna...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0083par0151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0084par0152	Yeah, and you're gonna shut him up.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0082par0153	First you shut him up, then...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0084par0154	Look behind you, you'll shut your back first.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit03spe0085par0156	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0085par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now resume the talks of Bill 478. The commission and the government are in place. The 8th article (c) has two proposals, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of the Law and State Officials Act to Amendments in some Laws and Laws Laws, and I propose that the Court of Law (subjects) be changed in the following way, and Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay "c" has been added to the "III-Reparations" section of the "A-Special Service Compensation" section (i) as "Secrets and Trade Controllers," "Social Security Controllers," which was added to the term "130" after the declaration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following paragraphs to Article 8 of the Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Laws, which are currently in session in 478 rows. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Mahmut Tanal According to the "II-Special Service Restitution of Article 152 of Article 152's Article II-Requirests Section (H) and (i) bents have been removed from effect; (g) those who have been assigned to the branch office "Malije Experts" (g) to come after the declaration of "Professsive Experts in the mission and title change regulations, the manager, the chief of the tax office, the staff manager, the military clerk, the deputy manager, the manager, the branch manager, the book manager, the branch manager, and the Accounting Experts, the Ministry of Interior, the Experts, the Experts, the Investigators, the Experts, the Specialists, and the Co-investigrators, the Specialists, and the Specials of Specials, and Engineers of the Specialistss, and Engineers of the Specials, and Specials (Is of Engineers, Specials, includings, and Engineers of Special Engineers of Special Engineers and Specials of Specials of Specials, including Specials, Specials and Specials and Specials of Specials and Specials and Specials of Specials of Specials and Specials and Specials.). In addition to the declaration of "Malical Experts" (e.g. medi (g) replaced and replaced as bendi (g) bendi (g) bendi (g) bendi (g) bendi (g) bendi (g) bendi (g) bendi bendi (g) to come after the I-GENEL CEVEL'S I-GENEL'S I-GENI EQUIFI (e. SINIFIFI) section (e.g. SIFIFI.E.E.FI.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.D.D.E.E.E.E.E.E.D.D.D.A.D.A.A.D.::::::::::: Director, head manager, tax manager, tax manager, manager, manager, manager, chief of property manager, employee manager, employee manager, staff manager, staff manager, staff manager, staff manager, staff manager of property manager, military manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk, clerk manager, clerk manager, clerk manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager of property manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager of property manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager of property manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager of property manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, manager, "g) Treasure Experts, Export Development Experts, Development Ministry Planning Experts, High Institution Experts and their Helpers 14800 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0086par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0085par0035	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0087par0036	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0085par0037	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0088par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to talk to you about a motion for the (g) bendi on the 8th article of bag number 478. My dear friends talk about the raises and compensations that must be paid to civil servants, Article 152 of State Officers' Law No. 657. In fact, it's a simple law in the first form of State Officers Act 657, which understands as much of the civil servants' rights as possible, as well as the employee regime. However, over the years, the government's staff regime has been turned upside down, especially with recent changes. Our personnel regime is truly chaos. The staff regime in Turkey has been overturned, especially with the change of 35 KHKs in 2011. The Ministry of Finance is one of our institutions. The Ministry of Finance was actually one of our established institutions, and they had traditions, except for the written rules, but unfortunately, the Finance Ministry was also upset by these laws, and the institutionalisation was terminated. The Ministry of Finance is in a lot of trouble today. Now, there are civil servants among you. Let me ask you, do experts with a manager charge more than the manager? He's not supposed to, is he? But they're getting paid by experts in the Ministry of Finance, more than the branch managers in the Finance Ministry right now. But even though they work for the branch manager or the managers, they get paid more because the regime, the staff regime, is all over the place. Our motion has to do with resolving this. This needs to be fixed. And they've been dealing with it for a while now. The Ministry of Finance agrees on this issue, but since he has other things to do, he wants to deal with them together because he has other things to fix, so he can't. But it has to be done, it has to be done, it shouldn't be left until tomorrow, because let's do it all in bulk. When we say it, we cause bigger problems, we keep doing injustices every day. There's also a difference between central experts and country experts. He's an expert, so what's the difference between an expert in the center and an expert in the country? Unfortunately, there's a difference like that, and that difference has to be fixed. My dear friends, the Minister of Health has just been here, and there's a similar situation with the Ministry of Health, and I'd like to explain that with your permission. There's a lot of trouble at the Health Department, too. For example, the hospital administrators who need to be appointed, unfortunately, they don't pay attention, they don't get elected out of the university of health care, they make a mistake like this. Anyone who finishes four years of college, even though he has no interest, has no experience at the hospital, can be appointed as general secretary to the current hospital troops, executive and financial services chiefs. Hospitalization is a very difficult job. Hospitalism requires at least 17 different functions -- it requires a lot of expertise from security to restaurant management, from hotelry to medical services, it takes experience, it takes a career, but it's a profession, but it's not taken into account, it's a high cost, so it can be appointed hospital manager. You have to be careful with all this. If we're talking about a state, if we're talking about continuity in the state, if we care about the state, if we care about the country, all of this is important, it's not something to be taken lightly. These are more important matters than the heroics at the front, and I wish you all to pay attention. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0089par0052	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Law on Amendments in Articles 2/1613, 1/778) and Proposal of the 8th Articles of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) in the framework of the Charter Commission for Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends "C" has been added to the section "A-Special Service Compensation" (i) of Article 152, with the term "Secrets and Trade Controllers," "Social Security Controllers," and the term "130" has been changed to "A-Special Service Compensation." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0090par0060	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0089par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0091par0062	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0089par0063	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0092par0065	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the motion that we've made for the 8th article of Law Proposal 478. I salute you all. In the joke of Article 8 (c) of this proposal, there are social security inspectors in the section of the State Officers' Law (Zamm and compensations) section, and this (c) joke was not in the first instance of the bill when it came to the Commission, it was included in the Commission, and it is the right practice to include social security inspectors. With this amendment proposal, we also recommend that special service compensation be raised to 130 per cent, which is 120 per cent. Our reason is to propose that tax intelligence experts, revenue experts, financial services experts, municipal employment experts, customs and trade inspectors and social security inspectors in this section should be raised from 120 per cent to 130 per cent of the rate of special service compensation. Mr. President, of course, the special service compensation for these special services in the title of the 657 is determined by consideration of issues such as the importance, responsibility and quality of the mission, the mandate, the term of service, the title and the degree of the staff, and the level of education, and so-called criteria, because in time these regulations have become inextricable. For example, and for example, private service compensations for staff members of the general management services and assistant services class must also be raised by the care of the education situation and the position of the staff. So it's just one of about 100, maybe, and we're benefiting from at least 65 percent of the minimum private service compensation. We also benefit from adding 21 points in the total number of special service compensation rates detected in this arrangement and increasing private service compensation for all officers. Again, in institutions, all officers who serve in the expert staff, regardless of name, must also be added to the provision for special services (h). Officers who serve as supervisors of Law 6111 must be taken advantage of as well as the special service compensation for this special service compensation (e) in the subcommittee. Again, the rates of special service compensation for economists and programmers and analyst officials must also be evened with staff members in the technical services class. As it turns out, valued lawmakers, the fact is that the public staff regime has become chaotic and is now virtually insurmountable. Everyone's upset and everyone's unhappy. Resuming private service compensations, severance benefits, additional compensations, university and judicial compensations, security compensations, and re-resolving the rights, justice and possibilities, are really to be taken into consideration for issues such as the importance, quality, quality, responsibilities, severance, education. With these thoughts, I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and with respect.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0093par0074	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The 8th article (d) has two motions on it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second, third, second, second, third, and third, at the end of Article 8 (d) of Law Proposal 478. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Mahmut Tanal Ali Özgündüz İlhan Demirözım Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments to the Law and Law Laws Act and the amendment of some Law and State Officials Act (d) under which I propose and propose that the Court shall be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Emin Çınar Mehmet Günal Kemalettin Yilmaz In the second joke of Article 41, the statement "For the assistant justice expert, deputy national defence expert, assistant to the interior, assistant to the foreign expert, assistant to the ministry of the higher education board, and assistant to the ministry appointed by the Council of Ministers" has been lifted from effect, and has been changed into "third" in its seventh joke. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0094par0094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0093par0095	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0095par0096	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0093par0097	Emin Çınar, MP of Kastamonu, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0096par0099	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the amendment of the National Movement Party Group, to the amendment of the 8th Amendment to the amendment of some Law and Law Act 478 rows under discussion. I salute your grand delegation. Making a law is hard work. The laws should never be rushed, experts' opinions should be taken, consults with NGOs, and the necessary talks should be done enough. But unfortunately, the laws we have adopted as Parliament have been passed here in the middle of the night, as if in haste, as if they were hiding something, without adequate negotiations with the constraints of power. In addition, AKP's custom-made bag of legislation has passed laws. As we all know, bag law enforcement overrides the traditional commission system. The commissions have been disabled by this proposed proposal, and the commissions have not been discussed in the relevant commissions as part of the task and expertise of other commissions. Therefore, the provisions of the Civil Code are violated. This is an indication of how seriously the government takes the laws made. In a hurry, like smuggling from a fire, you make a law proposal without enough discussion or discussion, and you bring it to the General Assembly by making a lot of mistakes. After that, you're dealing with other offers to correct the mistakes you've made. There are only over thirty amendments to the 72nd amendment to this law we have discussed. This substance alone consists of 15 pages. Other substances and 45 laws are expected to be changed. That's not taking things seriously. Let's do it quickly, so that no one understands what we're doing, no matter what happens to us, the rest is nothing but a mindset. So today we're talking about a bag of mistakes, which 12 years of AKP power again has compressed to the end of the House. This law we're meeting today is carefully monitored by thousands of families on television screens. The reason for this is that public employees will be recruited into the staff staff staff of some 96,500 contracts referred to as 4/B. At the end of this law, thousands of our people and their families will be happy to be civil servants. We share the joy of those families, wishing them the best of luck. But why can't other public contractors be happy? Why are temporary personnel from 4/C, seasonal and temporary workers, university graduates and technical staff, subcontractors, people working on these missions deprived of this staff? Why have thousands of subcontractors been humbled? Dear friends, there are hundreds of subcontractors in my constituency, Kastamon, the District Directorate of Roads, the Forest District Directorate, public hospitals, the province's private administration and the State Water Affairs Regional Directorate and other institutions. These people are expecting a staff. We wish to have the subcontractors given their staff immediately, to be considered by the government. Our country has many problems with economics, social life, education, livelihood. As you claim, in the last ten years, our country has not prospered by skipping an age. On the contrary, poverty has increased, agriculture has ended, and our people have become unable to make a living. The industry, the tradesman, the merchant, and the farmer are also having trouble paying taxes and bonus debts due to the recession and collection problems in the market with economic problems. That's why many of our tradesmen are closing the business. In the past five years alone, more than 800 businesses have been closed, and our tradesman has sought to emigrate from his own province and find work in the capital cities. We must now give up populist policies, make laws with more serious and selfless efforts as Parliament. The ruling party, the AKP, is the one that will provide it. I've done it. He must give up his understanding and heed the suggestions of the opposition. I ask for your support in our motion to give up the wrongs immediately, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0097par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0098par0110	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit04spe0097par0111	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0097par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. We are continuing the motion on Article 9. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A temporary 41, which is added to Section 657, under Article 9 of the Law Proposal, and under the Law of State Officers No. 657. We propose that the first joke of the article (a) be changed in the following way and add (c) and (d) denses to the item. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Article 4 of this Law (B) and Article 10/7/2003 of Article 10/7/2003 of the State Department's Law, and from Turkish nationals who are under contract working under Article 4924 and under the general conditions laid down in Articles 25/06/2013 and under Article 48 of the Law and under the General Code of Law on the amendments of Articles under which 30 visas or contracted personnel positions are applied on the same day as in accordance with Articles of the Law on Foreign Affairs Act 6/57 and under the Law on Article 4/B, there is no longer a position in office under the same office, with the office of the office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the State Department of State, under which has been under contracted and under the office under the same office, under the title of the title of the office of the office of the Union under the Act 4/B. "c) In the central and rural organisation of public institutions and institutions, which are connected to them; on the basis of the 4th Article of the Law (C) joke at the same time that this clause is in effect, including the staff of the TBMM executive agency; on the basis of the 4th Article (C) joke, those who have applied in writing within the 3 months, as well as those whose positions are visa-free and whose position are in the department and the position of the office are the same number of members of the Ministry of the State of Finance and the Membership as the two other institutions appointed to be elected to be elected by the General Assembly of the Court of the Constitution and Usul. In accordance with Article 4's (C) joke, the Article's release of this clause has been adopted prior to the date of its release, and its provisions have been imposed on those who have been removed from their duties due to general and free leave due to the general and local administrations. For these, the deadlines mentioned in the first joke begin from the date they were re-employed. According to the provisions of this clause, the service times of those assigned to the officers in accordance with Article 4 (C) joke have been assessed in determining their monthly degrees and levels of rights earned, as long as they do not exceed the levels that they can rise according to the conditions of their studies. They are entitled to the financial and social rights of the staff they have been assigned to, starting with the period following the date they have been assigned to, and they have no financial or social rights taken in their previous positions." "d) Workers who are still working in temporary positions of all public institutions and establishments during the course of the year, who are still operating in temporary positions with visas in accordance with procedure, are appointed without constraints on the laws laid out in Article 4/D of Law. A contract of employment, documented under the same conditions as a military, maternity or health board report, is also considered by those who are suspended due to health problems. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0099par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0097par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0100par0017	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0097par0018	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0101par0020	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 9 of the Law Proposal No. 478. I salute you all. Dear friends, typical AKP classic. During talks on the subcommittee, there was no regulation regarding the recruitment of contract workers under Law 657. In those days, the Prime Minister made a statement with his bureaucrats, and on the day the main commission was to meet in a hurry, we did this. We didn't object. I told you in my speech yesterday, it's impossible to object to that, but we, as Republican People's Party, want to recruit the contractors. In essence, Article 128 (U.S.) of the Constitution shall be carried out by civil and permanent tasks, officers and other public officials, which the state shall be obliged to conduct according to the general administration of public economic initiatives and other public administrations. Of course, what needs to be done is not to develop a working model outside of working relations set out in the laws and in our Constitution. However, for 11 years, the state's working relations have been different both in public and in private. In a statement, he said, even working in the positions of officers alone has become very diverse and has become inextricable. What was to be done was not with such an arrangement, but with a radical staff reform. Now, in the proposal they brought us in the Commission, they're going to put us on the staff. They said, "What will happen to 3,439 people with institutional contracts?" Now, we'll see you in a moment, the AKP's motion changes 24 laws. Dear friends, this is a motion, but 24 laws are being changed. It's against law enforcement and technique for once. Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin is also here as Speaker of Parliament. Dear friends, I mean, this House is an institution that needs to be protected, and everyone who serves here needs to know that it's an institution that needs to be protected. Lawmakers aren't just puppets who lift their fingers and take them down. Commissions can't be puppet commissions. The Minister, we did it. The approval of a law that came here after the Prime Minister announced it would do nothing but lead us to the sealer's head. An understanding, a logic that evaluates lawmakers like that, can't govern a country. Dear friends, look, it's a law-making organ, the Grand National Assembly. And I told you yesterday, there was no model here called running a 4/C-Lite until the AKP came to work. In our motion, we've asked that the 4/C (C) people be recruited, including members of the Turkish Parliament's executive agency, be included in our motion. After Mr. Prime Minister's statements, the AKP rushed him to the Commission with a preparation made by the Minister and his bureaucrats, and the text entered here. Now, in a moment, we will be faced with a motion made by the Minister and his bureaucrats, and 24 laws are being changed. In each law, there will be an arrangement where the MPs have the right to take their word, if there is a clause. Because the contractors work differently in every institution's law. It is not the duty of the Minister, in July of this day, when parliament should be on holiday, according to his Constitutional decree, that it should be a holiday, it is not to put a stick in the staff regime at a time when there are not many lawmakers, when he is not interested. There's only one thing they're going to do, one arrangement: handle all the problems of employees in this country, whether they're contractors or 4/C. I don't know why the Minister of Labor is running away, but I'm here as much as the Minister of Labor, the President of State Staff and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I see senior bureaucrats as guilty as AKP power. I mean, those who don't perform their duties properly leave the ministers and the Prime Minister at times in difficulty. In our motion, I respectfully welcome all of you, that contract staff members, especially members of the Parliament, should also be put on staff and officer status.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0102par0030	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 9 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal, the 4th Article of this Law (B) and the general conditions of Article 10/7/2003 and Article 48/2003 and the "Promised Health Staff in Section 4924, under the Compromises of the Law and Law Orders, in accordance with the Law, and to come after the "7/7/2003 Act and the general conditions laid down in Article 48." Some Law and Laws Council of Ministers have been granted visaed or engaged in the positions of contracted personnel, under the Law and by the State Department of Arts of Arts, 25/6/2013. Article 23 of the Article and Budget Act. The people who have been granted visas, under the terms of the agreement; those who work at the Conventional Status Offices of Youth and Sports; the substitutes, the teacher who works at the Ministry of National Education, the deputy midwife and deputy nurses who work at the Ministry of Health and University Hospitals; the deputy muezzin and imams who have sufficient documents in Diyanette's service; the additional application of the law within a month, from the time it takes to be appointed to the appropriate officers or permanent staff of employees of subcontractors and temporary workers at 4/C statuses and municipalities; 4. At the end of its joke, we propose and propose that those assigned to officers be removed from the item text of "no transfers to other public institutions and institutions," according to the first joke (b). Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0103par0038	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0102par0039	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0104par0040	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0102par0041	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0105par0042	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute you all. In fact, we've expressed many times on this platform, particularly the approach of power to make laws, a negative approach to Turkish workers, workers, poor people, women who are always negative, perhaps even if there are some positive regulations. Again, we're dealing with a bag of laws, and what's going on with this bag of laws? These sections are being transformed and, in fact, preventing us from having a comprehensive discussion on matter. So this is a serious problem. In fact, this style needs to be eliminated, more collective, more involved, to get to a point where everyone, the opposition, has spoken. This is also important in terms of the functioning of democracy, but unfortunately the AKP's government, which talks about the will of the people in the process of lifting and downloading hands, has to object to it at its own point of view, making so many politics out of 50 per cent of the vote. One, I want to underline that. Second: In Turkey, where we discuss the solution to the Kurdish problem in particular, where the PKK has declared a truce and has forced its forces out of bounds, where it expects steps from Turkey, which unfortunately we do not take serious steps towards democratisation or human rights. So, in the matter of changing the Anti-Terror Law that society expects, or changing the Law on Political Parties, lowering the dam, removing the obstacles in front of democratic politics, the government does not take it on the agenda, and the main opposition has already set up a commission in parliament, not even a member of this commission. How will this Parliament resolve the problems of Turkey? That's a serious problem. So this Parliament must be responsible for all the problems living in Turkey. Both approaches are not on the agenda, they're off the agenda, they're off the clock... Now, tomorrow, Congress is going on vacation, everyone's going to leave, but this process is so difficult. Even when we look at the developments in the Middle East, near us, Egypt, Syria, Turkey must be quick about democratisation. So, instead of doing this, instead of discussing it, we're talking about a bag of laws. The AKP is obviously going to do this to the election, pre-election preparation. Look, we passed this law, we passed this law. Where'd you get that from? Because the House is going to be on vacation, and when it works, it's going to work for a month, and then after the budget talks, the election calendar comes in. This isn't something we have to tire ourselves out about. Dear lawmakers, as far as the motion is concerned, we want to expand the scope of this motion, the scope of the clause, so if we're making an arrangement for some, it's going to be a positive arrangement, so let's expand the scope. Really, let's take advantage of all the contractors. Our fellow congressman just told us that those whose rights have been violated the most, those who work in this House, even you, let's say, don't take this Parliament staff into law. This is a very serious problem. Now, at this point, when each arrangement is made, we have to make another arrangement at another time. At the very least, with our motion to give this thing up and expand its scope... it's quite possible to do so, so the government shouldn't be shy about doing so. Really, if it's already an election investment, it's going to give you more points, so it's going to be better for you to take in a larger part of it, take in the law, take in more contract employees, other institutions, as we say, the people who work in the ministries, the people who work in the ministries, the people who work in this thing, in the situation. This will also satisfy the inequality, which will also satisfy the inequality between employees. We're always talking about equality, that's what triggers inequality. Our second proposal is not to be transferred to other public institutions or institutions, according to the first joke (b) at the end of the 4th joke. For example, we've arranged this according to the need, since there's a need, there's a space, so we can assign them to other areas when we need them. The approach in this regard is actually a limiting approach. As a result, we don't make arrangements here, unfortunately, in favor of workers, workers. It's more like, how can we actually get a runt from this, saying that it's a more positive arrangement, and actually, there's a lot of serious problems in practice. When we look at the entire bag of legislation, we see very clearly that we're actually dealing with a new bag of rants. So, sometimes the AKP tries to put pressure on society by doing with the bag of legislation what it can't do, what it faces with social opposition. Now, I think he should give up this method, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0106par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0107par0054	We want a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit05spe0106par0055	I'll submit the proposal to your votes, but I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0106par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 9 of Law Proposal 478, the decision of İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends was not sufficient to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first amendment of Article 41 (a) of the interim clause (a) which is envisioned to be added to Article 657 under Article 9 of Law Proposal 478 is to be replaced in the following manner, adding the (c) bendi (c) to the subsidiary at the end of the joke, and not being transferred to other public institutions and institutions for five years under this clause. We offer and offer to change it into form. Minister of Labor and Social Security 1) The 4th Article of this Law (B) joke, 2) It was the first joke of Article 97 of Article 11/8/1983 and Article 2876 of Article 97 of Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Institution Act (a). 3) Article 17 of Article 9/11/1983 and Article 2945 of the National Security Council and the National Security Board General Secretaryship Act, 4) Article 2/3/1984 and Article 2985 additional 3 of the House Law, 5) Article 35 of the Law on the Amendment to the Constitution of Prime Ministerial Service No. 3056, dated 10/10/1984, 6) Article 8 of Law 3238 dated 7/11/1985, 7) Article 30 of the Law on Agency and Jobs of Sports General Directorate 3289 dated 21/5/1986, 8) Article 7 of the Law (e), dated 09/12/94 and undersecretary of Treasury 4059, 9) The Law on Running Contracted Health personnel in Men's Trust 10/7/2003, 4924, and Changes in Decisions Under Some Laws and Laws, 10) Article 24 of the Turkish Justice Academy Law, dated 23/7/2003 and 4954, 11) Article 26 of the Law on the Foundation and Jobs of the Turkish Patent Institute No. 5000 dated 6/11/2003, 12) Article 29 of Article 29 of the Law, dated 5/5/2005 and headed by IRS No. 5345 13) Article 25 of the Law on Public Aviation General Directorate No. 5431, dated 10/11/2005 and its duties, 14) The third joke of Article 28 of Social Security Act No. 5502, dated 16/5/2006, 15) Articles 1st (c) of Article 10 of Article 10 of the Law on Public Order and Office of Security, dated 17/2/2010 and 5952, 16) Article 21 of the Law, dated 24/4/2010 and Chairman of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, 5978, is the third joke of the 21st Article of the Law, 17) Article 7 of the Law on the Offices of the Editorship of Writers of Turkey, dated 28/12/2010 and 6093, 18) Article 9 of Article 6 of the Law on Agency and Missions of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement No. 6114, dated 17/2/2011, 19) Fourth Article 8 of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 6306, dated 16/5/2012, 20) Article 6 of Article 27/6/1989 and Article 375 of the Constitution. 21) Southeastern Anatolia Project 388 dated 27/10/1989 and Article 6 of the Court of Law on the Institution and Missions of the Regional Development Administration, 22) East Anatolia Project No. 642, Project East Black Sea and Conconcrete Project 3/6/2011, Article 5 of Article 5 of the Act on the Offices of the Regional Development Administration. 23) Article 6/6/2011 and Article 36/A of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism No. 644 24) 7th article of Article 16 of the Court of Law on Offices and Offices of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency No. 656 dated 24/11/2011, Those who have been working in visas or contracted personnel positions under the terms stated in Article 48, including the first and ninth substrates of the first and ninth since the time this clause entered into force, those who have entered within the framework of the other substrates for 30 days, those who have entered the same position in the same position as officers, and those whose positions have been visa-free in the unit, and those who have been in the same position in accordance with their positions, under the office of officers in accordance with their positions in accordance with the Court of the Law on Articles of Law, and those who are subject to decisions in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Law, and those who are in accordance with the same positions, according to their positions, according to the authorities, according to the authorities, under the same positions, under the same positions of the office, under the same office, and the same office, according to the authorities, under the same office, under the same office, under the same office, and the office of the same staff, according to the office of the authorities, under the same staff, and the office of the same staff, under the same staff, under the Act shall be limited staff. "c) From those of the 11/11/1983 article of Article 50 of Article 50 of Article 50 of the Law (i.e. the first article) in Article 12 (i.e., in accordance with Article 12) with Article 25/6/2013, who are working in the position of contracted staff positions and who are currently under the same position as a member of the Turkish Radio-Television Agency under the general terms of Article 37 of the Law, who are currently under the same position as an officer, who will remain a member of the staff with the same position, and will remain a member of the staff at the Turkish Radio-Television Office. "This is the same clause of the contractual staff, which has been declared for hiring personnel in visa-contact positions under this clause prior to 25/6/2013, and has been completed on the date of the placement of this clause. For these, the time specified in the first joke begins from the time they begin their mission." "As part of the term 37, those who have been appointed to the officers who have been unable to be appointed to the officers, who have been assigned to the administrative judicial authorities and have been appointed to the officers in their administrative cases prior to the time this clause is in effect and who have been appointed to their institutions within 30 days of the time of the matter, as they have been in effect. In addition to these cases, the power of attorney will not be ruled." "The positions of those assigned to officers (c) as part of the first joke are also cancelled without further processing, but the total number of positions that can be used as a total 300 if the number of positions of those who are to be employed under the medi of Article 50 of the Law 2954 falls below 300."
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0108par0043	Mr. President, I'd like a word about the procedure. There are 24 different laws being changed here. There are 24 different laws, Mr. President, 24 different laws have to be discussed separately. There are 24 different laws in this motion, which must be discussed separately, just as in Article 73, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0109par0045	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0110par0046	One moment, Mr. Elitaş. I'm starting a formal debate.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0111par0048	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0112par0049	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0113par0050	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0114par0051	Against you. Let's have a friend from each group...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0115par0053	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0116par0057	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, review Article 73. Article 73 -- there are no letters left in the alphabet -- (z) went all the way to the bend, and it contains (1), (2), (3), (a), and (b) styles. Since these are all separate laws, Mr. President, they all came separately and will be discussed separately. The Minister's motion makes about 24 different changes in the law. Therefore, each of these proposals must be discussed separately and voted separately. Each one of them belongs to different ministries, each one changing the decree of different laws. From this point of view, I made a promise about the procedure. Certainly, each item needs to be discussed separately. I'm making this suggestion to the Presidential Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0117par0061	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu wanted a word against you. Now, it's Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP who's in favor.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0118par0064	Mr. President, if we look at the sentence in the paragraph following the date and numbers mentioned on the first page of the motion text, I'm reading 24/11/2011, Mr. Aslanoglu's description of which law the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, No. 656, has taken full interest. Under that description, those present must be subject to the Law of State Officers No. 657, under contract until 25 June 2013, during the period between 25/6/2013 and the release of the contract staff. There's no change here, there's a description. In this description, the person who works according to this institution, who works according to this institution, rules 657, but, as you put it, if there was a amendment in Law 2876, for example, it would be possible to evaluate it by Article 73, or by Article 8, just a few minutes ago. When I'm describing something, I think it's... it's probably a different meaning to make a change in a substance. I submit that the application and this motion are entirely in accordance with the Civil Code provisions, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0117par0067	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, who has made a promise against my conviction.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0119par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, it takes a few hours to figure out what the motion involves, so we'll have to work on it. From what we've read -- we've marked it one by one -- it brings the right things. As the National Movement Party Group, we support those brought in, there should be more, but it's a mistake, so you give it to someone, you don't give it to them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0120par0071	4/C's missing.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0121par0072	Is anyone missing here? All the contracts happen here.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0119par0073	I mean, this injustice, to me, takes away all the blessings, all the effort. Now, for example, with the President of the Writing Arts Foundation -- we're looking at right now -- you're putting the contractors who work here on staff, but you're increasing the number of contracts in Article 34. You'll see, Mr. Secretary, when you examine this, you'll be able to catch up on a lot of things that contradict the law you've brought here with this motion, which contradicts each other. Yeah, I mean, the bag, the law, the basic law, it's all mixed up. It's amazing where you're going to go against it. Now, imagine a clause in the history of the Republic or the entire world, in all parliaments, you can't find such an example of legislature, Article 73. There are about 70 articles under Article 73. I mean, Mr. Secretary, I know it doesn't suit you either, but we, the National Movement Party Group, have been getting so many reactions from the community since this morning -- my phone is dead -- why aren't we here? So you're doing something -- our government is strong, we have to be fair in reference to -- just do it. We're ready to work, and we're willing to stay here in Ramadan. Come on, let's get this straight, fair and square. In this regard, equal wages for equal work are your terms. In the same situation, in the same institution, in some people who do the same job, you don't have to hire some people... your name is Justice, but it's not justice. How are you guys gonna separate this 4/C? I'll give it to some...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0122par0075	Parliament staff, Mr. Mehmet, Parliament staff.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0119par0076	Now, you're eating food, I've already told you - these cooks will poison you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0123par0077	Will they separate yours?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0119par0078	I mean, I don't know. One's from 4/C, one's from the staff; one's getting 2,000 liras, one's getting 4,000 liras. Oh, no, that's not fair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, Mr. Secretary, let's work. Let's do this right.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0124par0081	Let's add these, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0119par0082	I'm not opposed to these issues in this motion, I support them; I'm expressing your inadequacy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0125par0085	Thank you. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a favour on my conviction.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0126par0088	Mr. President, do you understand this clause?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0125par0089	Mr. Young, if you understand, everyone understands.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0127par0090	The president doesn't need to understand, the president will run it, he doesn't even have the right to vote.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0091	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge in favor of the President's position in the procedure debate. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Honourable lawmakers, a debate has been raised in the government's motion to see the subverts of the joke as a separate law amendment and therefore as a separate clause. Our Deputy Group President has just stated that 24 laws (a) are referred only to the 24 laws and the laws listed at this time, which means that public law states how public personnel are employed in the Law of State Officers No. 657 as a rule of employment, but there are special regulations for employment in the institutions and institutions themselves. This is the common and general arrangement for the contract staff working at public institutions (a) in the sub-nets of the dam...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0129par0093	We can't hear his voice.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0094	...the public where these arrangements have been made...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0130par0095	We don't know what he's talking about!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0096	...is referred to by the law that regulates the status of the members of your government. So, the topic of the bet is based on an arrangement for the transfer of employees to the staff in contracting personnel status under 24 different laws, which are referred only to these articles of the law, and are currently in force without any changes in content.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0131par0097	But then you have to write as all contract personnel.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0098	Now, dear friends, this arrangement is a very important arrangement.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0132par0099	You don't understand the matter and you're talking about it, don't talk about it like that!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0100	A total of 3,439 personnel will benefit from this arrangement -- contract personnel -- from this arrangement.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0133par0101	Mr. Kubat, why not 5,000 staff?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0102	From the Treasury Undersecretary 51, 48 from the National Directorate for Sports, 499 from the Ministry of Public Order and Security, 837 from the Office of Public Order and Security, 41 from the Office of Public Order and Security, 44 from the NGOs, 44 from the ESYM Agency for Ataturk Culture, Language and History, 6 from the Department of Civil Aviation, 39 from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, 499 from the Ministry of Defence and interested organizations, 41 from the Turkish Co-operation and Coordination Agency, 44 from the Non-SEC, 44 from the Ministry of State and Development of the Environment, 57 from the Ministry of the Environment, 57 from the Ministry of the Environment, 57 from the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0134par0103	Either we don't understand you, we don't understand you, you can't hear me.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0128par0104	...is to benefit from this provision brought in on a personal basis. It's a proposal that regulates their overall situation through reference, stating that they depend on the same status. Therefore, there is no violation of any law or the Civil Code in the process. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0135par0107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0136par0109	Mr. President, for the record, We're not against the fact that all 4/B/B people who work in the government are civil servants, never, let them all pass, but let them all pass...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0135par0110	Mr. Aslanoglu, it's not about the procedural debate. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0136par0112	We're not against our friends, but since there are no others...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0137par0113	No, don't fix it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0136par0114	No.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0137par0115	Correction, you said it differently.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0136par0116	Fix what? Fix what? Let each of them meet separately, and let's vote each one separately. Mr. Elitaş, don't provoke.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0138par0117	Members of parliament, under the motion, the temporary clause No. 657 is added to Article 41 and referred to different laws with this clause, a new regulation is being introduced. It refers to different laws, not to change different laws, but to different laws to achieve the same goal. Therefore, the meeting of the motion as a single clause would not violate the Civil Code. Proceeding with the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0139par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0138par0124	Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0140par0125	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0138par0126	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0141par0127	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0138par0128	I'm reading the reason: The situation of those employed as contract staff, as part of the regulations in the agency's laws, has been organised for those who have been assigned to the officers' staff and who have filed lawsuits against the administrative staff due to the fact that the 4/B process is still under way and that the 4/B purchases are under way, and that KHK No. 632 has been signed in 2011, although the contract has been signed on its application.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0142par0131	Mr. President, of course, the law has been passed here, but under contract personnel, it's a work order. Therefore, it would be against the Constitution's principle of equality to not give that right to contract personnel in other laws here. In that regard, what should have been done here was to give the right to contract personnel employed by various laws. Otherwise, due to the principle of equality, this sentence will be issued when it goes to the Constitutional Court. In that way, if there's an exception, I'm expressing it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0138par0132	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I'll submit the clause to your votes, but there's an open vote request. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on Article 9 of the proposal, to read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the vote of Article 9 be held in the form of an open vote. Oktay Vural? Here. Mehmet Shandır? Here. Mehmet Günal? Here. Erkan Akçay? Here. Reşat Right? Here. Enver Erdem? Here. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. Necati Özensoy? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz? Here. What's not to be afraid of? Here. Ali Öz? Here. Amin Çınar? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri? Here. Yusuf Halaçoglu? Here. You did, Yilmaz? Here. Muharrem Varli? Here. Celal Adan? Here. Stopped Ali Torlak? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu? Here. Yusuf Ziya Irbeç? Here. Sumerian Oral? Here. A scholar's Light? Here. You got it, Lightning? Here. Ali Halaman? Here. Yes, I'm going to take a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be held on an electronic voting device: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0143par0167	Mr. President, this is an open vote. Under Article 143 of the Civil Code, lawmakers who hold open ballots must first enter the vote, otherwise it becomes a vote if they do not enter. If you could warn the lawmakers...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0144par0168	Well, then, Mr. President, let's do this: let's go in and let's not let the AKP in, sir. So they don't want to go in themselves. So, you're going to refuse?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0145par0170	The vote has begun, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0146par0171	No, then it'll be a vote.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0144par0172	Sir, Mr. Elitaş says: "Let the opposition enter." Yes, we enter. Sir, don't let the AKP in, let us in because we want them in, then let them in.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0145par0174	Members of parliament, a clear vote on Article 9 of Law Proposal 478: ▪ Number of votes used: 228 [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya So the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands to be changed a clause that is very closely related to the bill and proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, talks on the motions the commission has already made, and a number of motions may be made in this article. So, I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins the motion, mostly, with 21 members, I'm going to open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nığde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478, and Proposal of Substances to Amendments to Amendments under the Law and Laws Act, and Proposal of Article 2/1613, 1/778) and Proposal of the European Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 10-657. FROM personnel who are in line with the 36th Article of State Officers' Law (VIII) under Article No. 657 before this Law is adopted, those who have the necessary qualifications from the staff in line with the Section of Helping Services shall be appointed to the positions of the 36th Article (I-General Management Services) under the category of Article 36, if they apply within three months of the date of its execution. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? Invite the commissioners first.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0147par0196	Mr. President, we don't have a majority, we can't participate.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0148par0197	But you didn't, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0149par0198	You didn't invite me!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0150par0199	Aren't you, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0151par0200	Mr. President, please invite him.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0150par0201	Do you say yes?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0152par0202	My saying yes doesn't mean much.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0150par0203	No, no, one...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0153par0204	Mr. President, please invite him.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0152par0205	Yes, we have friends who would like to join the Commissioner.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0150par0206	Do you agree as president, sir? You too, lift it up.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0154par0207	Call him, raise your hand.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0152par0208	Mr. President has already read it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0154par0209	You pick it up.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0152par0210	Our friends who would like to participate in this clause may come and join us.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0154par0211	Please, look at me, does it look good?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0152par0212	I'm looking at you, sir. We don't have a majority, we can't participate.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0154par0214	He says don't come, he sends the men out.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0152par0215	Anyone who wants to come, of course.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0154par0216	Don't you think I'm overcompensating?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0155par0217	Do you agree as commissioner, sir? As a person, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0156par0218	Mr. President, there are no simple majoritys.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0157par0219	It doesn't make any difference if I agree or not.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0155par0220	You're neutral. But use your right to vote.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0157par0221	Because 21 people are supposed to be here.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0155par0222	No, but he'll be 21 with you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0157par0223	That's why we can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0155par0224	Oh, you don't agree!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0158par0225	Yes, and since the Commission has not been in the motion for the most part, I'm dismissing the motion. There are three motions on Article 10 that I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "in the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Internal Affairs" in Article 10 of Article 10 of the 478 Numbered Law proposal, which will be seen as appropriate, "in the central and rural institutions of the Interior Ministry," which will be seen as appropriate by the interior ministry" and "in the institutions of the community," which will be included in the second joke, "in the institutions of government services." Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tünzel Nazmi Gür Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to file the motion together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. I'm now reading other proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the Law Proposal be removed from the tender text of the 10th Amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures, which are currently in session in 478 rows. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin Musa Çam Bkent Kuşoğlu İlhan Demiröz Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0159par0251	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0158par0252	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0160par0253	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0158par0254	Who wants to talk about the same motions?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0161par0255	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan will speak.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0158par0256	Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0162par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movements to make a amendment motion on Article 10 of Law Proposal 478. I hereby salute your high council. Today, when the AKP came to power, I looked at the difference between its first law number and the last law, my friends. When the AKP first came to power in 2002, the law numbers arrived at 4700, today at 6,500. Ten years, three six hundred and fifty days... half the time, assuming Parliament works, there's been a law from this Parliament every day throughout the AKP's rule. However, I'd like to draw your attention to another matter concerning these laws. With this motion today, the incident in Article 10 of this meeting reveals that the foundations of the Civil Defence General Directorate are being re-founded in some way to fill the gap that has come out with the closure of the Civil Defence General Directorate. While the AKP closed the Office of Civil Defence and established the Emergency Disaster State Office in the Prime Ministry and established AFAD, Ankara thought it should be co-ordinated by AFAD, but never calculated how to do these things in the country. And at the point where we're here today -- we've come from different processes in ten years -- it's come to the point of bringing this country back to its first takeover of civil defense services. So, here's the thing to settle on the track: you'll respect Parliament, you'll believe in democracy, and you'll run the House. The law of soup, which we are discussing, changes more than 70 percent of the law. But this law, this soup that has changed so many laws, has only been discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission. So, why are the other commissions in this House set up? Let's shut them down, then. Our friends there, our friends who were elected to that commission, don't they know anything about their commissions, anything at all? If they do, why are they being disrespected if our friends are elected to certain commissions based on their expertise? They're friends in this country, which has been enforced for a century, in accordance with the Law on the latest Officer's Judicial. But ever since the AKP came to power, the same laws have been re-opened, a puzzle has been made. I mean, my boy reads the building, turns around and reads it again! Friends, Parliament is a serious business, making laws is a serious business. If you underestimate making the law so much, if we keep discussing the same issues every day, this country will not be able to travel for a barley length. Please respect democracy, respect the chosen people, respect your own MPs, so that this country can travel a length of barley. Let's not have to discuss the same law ten times in ten years, as we're talking about right now, this won't give Turkey anything. For God's sake, no one has the right to waste time on such useless matters when the country has so many problems. Gene, ever since this bill began to be discussed, people who live in retirement on social media have voiced their cries. However, neither the AKP ranks nor the government have taken a step towards the issue so far. And the state of pensioners -- if you've made a soup that's so complicated -- would be useful to assess in this. Take not only your followers, but also the citizens who speak, cry, cry, cry. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0163par0268	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for the same proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. With this clause, there is a change in Article 10 and Law 711. In the current state of the law, the ministry and the ministry-based departments are bound by the decision of the ministry which shall be remitted to the duty of the duty of the duty office, but with the proposed amendment, the duty of the duty of the duty of the duty of a duty officer is foreseen only in the Ministry of the Interior or the Interior Ministry. I did not understand the reason for this change; it was not in the proposal of the law; it was not in the bill; it was not in the subcommittee; then, in the main commission, such a change was made by the proposal of a member of the Commission. We see that there is no truly satisfying explanation for why this change was made. Now, there's also the 7th article of the existing law, which says that these laws do not apply to the National Ministry of Defense. It means that this will be applied to other agencies from the opposition. However, the proposed change only envisions the indemnity of the duty of a duty officer at the Ministry of the Interior. Now, you know what this shows? If a text is to be passed, it comes to the House, and we take it out as a law. And by "we," I mean you, of course, we disagree, but that's the way it is. Now, after I say these things, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to bring one thing to your attention, Council of Ministers, the Minister of the European Union, Mr. Egemen Donated to the General Assembly yesterday. He may or may not have caught the attention of one of your departments, but he has a party badge on his collar. Congressmans, ministers may belong to the party, but ministers are ministers of the republic's government. It's not like a minister to walk around with a party badge after he's a minister. That's exactly what you don't want to understand or particularly dwell on. We say, "You be the government of 76 million, that's what we want." But your government insists that we are not the government of 76 million, we are only the government of those who voted for us. Look, I'm telling you as a friend, it's wrong. You have to prove that you are the government of 76 million and that you embrace 76 million with your actions, with your words, with all your actions. Otherwise, if you exclude those who don't vote for you, then you give them legitimacy to seek their rights in the square. Then they will look for their rights in the open. In order not to allow it, or rather to push people into such a necessity, the government must understand that there is a government of 76 million people. That's what's causing all this. That's what's happening in the country. Please, I'm saying this over and over again, you can't separate people from people who vote for you or don't. You have to serve 76 million and plan your services accordingly. Secondly, very soon, in 2010, you claimed that you had removed the EMASIA Protocol, or rather you did. It's been removed, but you recently restored this EMASIA Protocol. Why? So now, why are you implementing a protocol that was lifted three years ago? If you were going to put it into effect, then why did you remove it? Why? Because you're making or saying you're making decisions based on the conjunctive. In fact, you make those decisions, but you don't because the application continues. After the EMASIA Protocol was lifted from practice, the application continued, and now it continues. Why? Because there is already Article 11 of the City Administration Law. Based on Article 11 of the City Administration Law, this protocol is being prepared, whether it is protocol or not, that decree of the State Administration Law is in effect. That's what you're saying, assuming that you're doing something by giving people false information.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0164par0280	But your job is to tell people the truth. Thank you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0165par0284	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0166par0285	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, asking for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0167par0286	Mr. President, isn't that a motion to remove the item from the text?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0166par0287	Yeah. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. The 10th amendment was also removed from the proposal text. I'll remove the other motion from the process, but we'll continue to discuss the existing clauses of the proposal so as not to cause any confusion. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0168par0291	There's not enough of a decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0166par0292	I've made a statement, sir. I said there's enough decisions. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 is 11th. Instead of the term "mutete" in the article, we propose that it be changed to the form given. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mahmut Tanal Engin Altay Bulent Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin Muslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478 to Amendment in Articles 11 and Proposal of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and Proposal of Plans and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Muharrem Varlı Kemalettin Yılmaz The first and second sentences of Article 45 of Article 45 of Turkish Central Bank Law, dated 11-14/1/1970, have been changed as follows. "The bank can accept commercial bonds and certificates given by banks as part of its basics, provided that it carries the minimum three signatures it considers acceptable. Other conditions are determined by the bank's board of directors with assurances that can replace one of the commercial types and signatures that will be accepted in the Reeskonta." Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0169par0309	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0166par0310	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0170par0311	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0166par0312	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0171par0314	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are regulations in Article 11 of the bill concerning renewing the bond guarantee given to the Central Bank and delaying the deadlines to more than three months later. Of course, when it comes to bank-related arrangement -- I mean, we wish -- we wish there was a new arrangement in the Turkish farmer's debt to Agriculture Bank, in their debt to agriculture loans, that would be better, but of course, your priorities are different, you don't have priorities for Turkish farmers, but you have priorities for your own voters, and you have no help and no contribution to farmers on the other side. I was in the Black Sea District this weekend, in Tripoli and Rize. While we were traveling there, we met some of our chief brothers, and I would like to share some of their troubles with you. You know, after a semester as chief of staff, if they don't get elected chief again, they get their gun licenses paid for. Our Mukhtars have a request from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to renew their licenses without paying a fee once they've been in charge. From here, as their spokesman, I'd like to convey this. Again, they say their salary is not enough for them, which is true because they're doing a public service. People who have night sickness, who have jobs, who have fights, who have fights, who come to the headmen, who ask the chiefs to settle their problems, but they can't even put enough gas in their cars to get out of their village to the city. At least at minimum wage level, Mr. Secretary, their salaries need to be improved. Come, if you say we're going to do good things in this bag of legislation, if you're going to do good things, we're going to make a improvement to the public, the peasants who are actually serving their people, to the minimum wage level, and we're going to make a contribution to them. Again, now, you're making the same cut as the 300 million liras paid by pensioners, who now have 50 billion dollars a month, which is 50 grand a month, which is 50 grand a month. So, if you're re-elected a retired headman and you're paying him a salary, you're cutting 15 percent out of his salary, and you're cutting 15 percent out of people who have $50,000 monthly income, pensioners. There's an injustice here. I think if you want to do something good with this bag of legislation, let's eliminate this injustice, make an adjustment, and contribute to our people. Again, tea makers, especially teamakers in the Rize region, have extreme problems. The government announced the purchase price of tea at $1,200,000, new money, at $1.2, but there's still 60 cents worth of tea there, folks, the private sector buys 60 cents for tea. I mean, the farmer can't make money off his own production; he can't pay for his fertilizer, he can't pay for the diesel he burned, he can't pay for his wages. Tea makers are extremely troubled. The government needs to raise its head, pay attention to them, listen to their troubles, and find a solution to their problems. And again, this is about tea on the run, and our tea makers there have a lot of enthusiasm, so there's so much running tea coming in from abroad, we're already on the edges of cotton. Here's the Syrian border, go a little further, the Iraqi border, the whole area is turned over to the terrorist organization, no military security, no one else's security. Since it's passed as requested, it's now, unfortunately, Turkey has become the paradise of smugglers. I'm the Adana MP. Both our Hatay MPs, our Ottoman MPs, and our Mersin MPs know this very well, in our area we have extremely illegal tea, extremely illegal cigarettes, and extreme moonshine. It's also because of the government's wrong practices. What's that? One: the failure to secure the border. Number two: recent increase in excess. They lead people to illegal cigarettes and moonshine. For that reason, the government must take precautions as soon as possible, protect our own manufacturers, our own people, prevent others from making money in our country and ours from going to other countries. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0172par0324	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 is 11th. Instead of the term "mutete" in the article, we propose that it be changed to the form given. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0173par0331	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0172par0332	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0174par0333	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0172par0334	Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0175par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the 11th article we're talking about, represents an arrangement in the Central Bank on the duration of the reescontents, and it appears to be an arrangement for liquidity regulation. Of course, one of the duties of the Central Bank is to control the liquidity in the market, and in this framework, to take monetary policy in the context of dealing with inflation as accurately, correctly, effectively. However, on this occasion, I would like to share with you some of my thoughts on inflation, where the performance of the central banks, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, is measured, as it is all over the world. The measure of whether a central bank's policy is successful is whether it can achieve inflation. The failure of inflation is interesting not only for the failure of the central bank to achieve its own goal, but also for the government to show how accurate it is on monetary policy. Congressmans, our inflation target is 5%. In 2006, we moved on to the inflation targeting system. Seven years have passed since the inflation targeting system. In five of these seven years, there is a central bank and government that has failed to meet its inflation target. Look, I'll tell you the official numbers of the state: in 2006, the inflation target deviates by 74 percent, in 2007 it deviates by 110 per cent, in 2008 it deviates by 153 per cent, in 2011 it deviates by 89 per cent, in 2012 it deviates 24 per cent. There's only one central bank and government that met inflation targets in 2009 and 2010. However, in 2009 and 2010, the targets were revised. So when we look at the original goals, there's a 63 per cent and 60 per cent inflation target in 2009, and in 2010. So we've been targeting inflation for seven years. In no time in seven years, we see that the Central Bank and therefore the government have failed to reach its inflation goal. There's no way we're going to achieve inflation in the years to come, which is five percent in this year and the next two years. We've got the latest June inflation figure, 8.3%; the end-of-year inflation target is 5%. So it's not possible for us to meet our inflation targets from now on. Why? Because inflation is ultimately an imbalance between the total supply and the total demand, an imbalance in favour of total demand. You know, in 2012 in Turkey, the total domestic demand collapsed, negative. When the total domestic demand was negative, we failed to achieve inflation. So in 2012, the domestic demand was negative, while the inflation target was 5 per cent surprised 24 per cent, and now the government says the domestic demand will be revived in 2012 and then. Of course, it's a different story, so as long as the income policy doesn't change, as long as people don't get a pay raise in addition to inflation, or unless credit policy changes, there's nothing that requires domestic demand to be revived. But Velev, let's face it, and let's face it, the domestic demand will come to life, and it's impossible for a government and a Central Bank, in a conjoncture where domestic demand is low, negative, under total supply, unable to meet its inflation target, in a conjoncture where domestic demand is alive, now 8.3 per cent. There are problems with growth next semester. Problems with growth will affect tax targets because indirect taxes are closely related to growth goals. If growth does not meet its goals, it will not keep its tax targets, and if it does not keep its tax targets, there will be two options before the government, either putting in new taxes or raising existing public goods. Therefore, I claim today that since the coming fall, there will be no domestic demand and growth goals, and the tax targets will be affected, so serious increases are at the door, especially natural gas, and there will be increases in all products run by the public, including electricity. It's impossible to meet domestic targets and achieve inflation targets on a high-rise trail like this. So, when we look at the Central Bank performance and the government's inflation card, unfortunately, we have an unpleasant picture. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0176par0346	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit06spe0177par0347	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0177par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 14 of Law Proposal 478, there was not enough decision to vote on the motion of Bursa MP Kemal Ekinci and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third amendment of Article 15 (b) of Article 15 of Article 15 (b) of Route 2918, which has changed Article 8 of the Highway Law, dated 13/10/1983, and has changed some of the provisions of the Law and Code of Law. "2. In order to ensure the immediate use of health services for those injured in traffic accidents, the Ministry of Interior has also taken the appropriate view of setting up first aid and emergency response stations on the roads, providing tools and equipment for traffic accidents (travmatology, internal medicine expert), other health staff (anasthesia technician, nurse), administrative and technical staff. 3. In each district, along with medical personnel trained for traffic accidents, provide sufficient first aid and emergency ambulances. Having an air ambulance in emergency stations." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Hülya Güven Musa Pine Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478 to Amendment in Articles 15 and Proposal of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) in the accompanying framework of the Charter of the Plan and Budget Commission reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Kemalettin Yilmaz "DEE Article 8 of Law 15-2918 has been changed in the following way, along with its title. "The Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Health and Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry's mandates and powers MADDE 8- Under this Law, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Health and Transport, the Ministry of Maritime and Communications have mandates and powers: 1. In accordance with Article 123 for the development of motorized drivers, you have to open driving courses, allow private driving courses to be opened, overseeing them at every stage. 2. Taking theoretical and practical examinations of driver candidates and providing certificates for those who are successful. 3. The traffic that organises pre-school, in-school and out-of-school traffic training is to prepare a general education plan and co-operate with relevant organisations. 1. Planning and implementing first and emergency services related to road accidents. 2. To ensure the immediate use of health services of those injured in traffic accidents, the Ministry of Interior has also taken the appropriate view of setting up first aid stations on highways, providing the necessary personnel, vehicles and equipment for these stations. 3. In each district, with medical personnel trained for traffic accidents, there are sufficient first and emergency ambulances. 4. From those who were injured in traffic accidents to health care agencies, the cause and effect of the accident is to keep records of those who died within 30 days and report to the Police Department by the end of the following month. C) Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications: 1. The relevant units of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, which are provided with these Laws and other legislations, to provide the necessary co-ordinating of the transport of roads in accordance with this Law, to do or to conduct examinations or conduct examination stations, to supervise examinations of inspection stations, to write a fine on persons acting contrary to Article 35, to impose administrative fines on those who act contrary to the provisions of Article 35, to take administrative measures set in this clause, to retain the duties and powers of the traffic police, to do or oversee the weights and size controls of vehicles, to keep their duties and auditing them. 2. Those authorized to do weight and size controls of vehicles are supervised by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, and business owners who have been detected in violation are fined 1,500 Turkish liras for administrative fines. In the event there is a lack of authorization, the owner will be given the maximum 30 days to address these shortcomings. In the meantime, the warrant will be revoked if the gaps are not met. 3. The Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications is assigned to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, which is used by the General Directorate in connection with other services of the General Directorate. This mission is referred to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, which is used for plumbing and equipment. A special legal agreement can be made between those authorized by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, and those authorized by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications on the use of the materials and equipment assigned by the Ministry of Finance." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0178par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0177par0042	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0179par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0177par0044	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0180par0046	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the 15th amendment of the bill. On this occasion, I salute you all. There is a provision for driving courses related to what the Ministry of National Education will do, what the Ministry of Health will do, and what the Ministry of Transport will do. Of course, when these arrangements were being made, what criteria were considered, who were asked, and frankly, I'm not so sure. Why? Because it's not very professional, but it's not enough, but let's just say it's okay. So, why isn't there an arrangement here about the opening of the driving courses? Because you're looking at a few driving courses that can be opened in a population of 10,000, 15,000, so it's not in a position to respond to the economic needs, but there's a structure that's very, very high in the population of that county. Thus, in a competitive environment, both businesses suffer and very healthy results do not come out. Thus, in this arrangement on driving courses, I believe that a certain criteria and a certain population ratio should have been put into this law, which should have been opened according to that population criteria when the driving course was opened. So, it's incomplete. Again, there is another clause in which the exams will be conducted by the Ministry of National Education or by any private institution that the Ministry of National Education will see fit. Now, this private institution, who will it be? Who will this private institution decide for? Or is there an environment here where you want to be exploited, you want to be profited, you want to get a runt? Is this what you're trying to create? And that's the wrong substance. So there's something missing here, too. Again, there's a clause about changing driver's licenses. It is said that no tuition will be received in exchange of driver's licenses, but when the driver's license is changed, it will be charged 101 lira by the term "valued document." We'll be bringing an additional burden to the already troubled citizen. I mean, if the driver's licenses, the driver's licenses, if they're available, readable, why do we need changes? Why is that? Oh, after that, those who get the new driver's license will print it out, get the new driver's license. Thus, the old and the new ones remain in effect, while the new ones and the following ones also receive new ones. Again, there's something wrong with this citizen about the traffic tickets, and there's a huge problem. The Prime Minister instructs everyone to write a sentence. After that, the Home Secretary says to the provinces, "You'll probably be fined as much as this. I'm giving you an example, you'll be fined and sent to the province of A, the province B. After that, there's radar, radar, and one radar in a row for five kilometers. I mean, would that be so cruel? It's placed in places like this, like an ambush. So you're trying to cover a budget deficit with traffic tickets? What are you trying to do? Is there any point in making so many victims? He's going to the exit of the village, he's going to take the tractor, he's going to take the wheat, he's going to take the cotton, he's going to get 3 tons, 5 tons, he's going to hold a truck for him, and he's going to pay for the truck? He can't afford diesel, he can't afford fertilizer, he can't get what he's planting, what he's planting, what he's reaping. Well, sir, that's missing from the trailer. Wow, that's missing from the tractor. Is God the answer? I mean, it's got to be a little bit of a business or a legal arrangement. Well, the tractor is a tool that works in the field, so of course it's going to be incomplete, and of course it's not possible to expect everything to be complete, like an automobile, but an old uncle has loaded 3 tons of wheat, a billion dollars, so they're fined a thousand lira with new money. The wheat he's taking is not worth that much. It's a shame, it's a sin! So either you have to make a general or you have to make an adjustment about these things, you have to make people feel comfortable. So by calculating our deficit in the budget or the money you're sending to the Social Welfare Fund from traffic tickets, if you're taking these traffic tickets, you're just being very hard on our people. And this whole radar thing is really important, so you're crossing one of them, and you're running into another radar two miles away. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0181par0056	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third amendment of Article 15 (b) of Article 15 of Article 15 (b) of Route 2918, which has changed Article 8 of the Highway Law, dated 13/10/1983, and has changed some of the provisions of the Law and Code of Law. "2. In order to ensure the immediate use of health services for those injured in traffic accidents, the Ministry of Interior has also taken the appropriate view of setting up first aid and emergency response stations on the roads, providing tools and equipment for traffic accidents (travmatology, internal medicine expert), other health staff (anasthesia technician, nurse), administrative and technical staff. 3. In each district, along with medical personnel trained for traffic accidents, provide sufficient first aid and emergency ambulances. Having an air ambulance in emergency stations. Hülya Trust (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0182par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0181par0066	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0183par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0181par0068	Hülya Güven, Izmir MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0184par0070	Mr. President, the lawmakers have received our pledge on Article 15 of Law Proposal 478, which is in session, and I salute the grand delegation. As it is known, according to World Health Organization data, 10,000 of our citizens die every year due to traffic accidents in Turkey. 55 percent of the dead are drivers and passengers of four-wheeled vehicles, while 19 per cent are pedestrians. In the first three months of 2013, 552 fatal traffic accidents have also killed 665 people and injured about 50,000 others. Of course, these are the numbers that are recorded. I mean, we see that divided roads, given that it saves lives, can't actually reduce accidents. These figures also reveal the importance of emergency medical care on highways and cities. After first aid in such accidents, emergency physicians must be escorted to a full-fledged hospital as soon as possible. In fact, the air ambulance is important in rapid response. However, we see very important distances ahead of our country. In the 15th article we discussed, it is the duty of the Ministry of Health to set up first aid stations on the roads of the land, to provide the necessary staff, equipment for vehicles on these stations. With this, we see how the government looks at emergencies. Because it's already in the law of law. The government cooks the material that exists but doesn't apply it and presents it as new. First, we need to be told why this law has not been enforced for 11 years. Unequipped exes are presented to citizens as new. The 15th article does not specify the qualifications of the physician and nurse who will work at the first aid stations stated to be established. The people who need to work here are physicians who can provide emergency services, such as EMTs, traumatologists. In this proposed substance, the type of health care personnel is not defined. I'm guessing there'll be people who've been certified for a week or a week's training. In short, our citizens in traffic accidents will continue to burn out again. Moreover, with the Ministry of Health's proposed law in the coming days, the Hippocratic oath prevents our physicians from interfering in the event of an accident or a sudden illness. Because they will be taken to the police station immediately and sentenced to prison for being unlicensed from one year to three years. The Ministry of Health has now taken away all of our citizens' health rights and turned them into money. The emergency stations that will be installed on these roads will soon be privatized into a pay-per-view form. Eleven years later, Interior Minister Muammar Guler said they would raise awareness of traffic in the community. Actually, it was late. Therefore, I invite the ruling lawmakers to remove the delay by contributing to changes in finding specialists in these units that we have added to the 15th article, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0185par0078	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 is 16th. The shape of the driver's documents in the article is to be replaced in the form of the driver's documents, the class, the content, and the form of the driver's documents after the expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kamer Young Aytun Çıray Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; in accordance with the Law and Law Law Act, we propose that the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way, and the Charter of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Kemalettin Yılmaz Mehmet Şandir Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Article 38 of the Law No. 16 - 2918 has been changed in the following way. "MEDDE 38-Driver's Classes are determined by procedure and regulations on the introduction of motor vehicles, the nature, the shape of the driver's license, and the content of the release of the International Driver's Document." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0186par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0185par0098	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0187par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0185par0100	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0188par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Our motion is a correctional motion. Because we found the writing in the text of matter incorrectly in the text of the law, but we've made such a correction proposal that doesn't change the content, and you'll see that if you read it. In fact, we have no objection, we have support, both in this article and in many articles, as the National Party for Action. There are one or two things you can't accept. We don't say yes to one of these people getting money from driver's licenses and torturing our people. Secondly, the opening of the mera is a very wrong event. Until the Law of Mera came out, this assembly worked hard, and worked hard, and mera is very important. You're building it here, we object to it. Other than that, the National Movement Party, which deals with personnel law and other regulations, actually has no objections, we have support. That's what we've been trying to do in the commission. Well, why is there opposition, why is there a motion in every article of this kind, it's being discussed, I actually made a promise to present it. Otherwise, the content of the motion, the change in the motion, doesn't make much sense. Dear friends, we're all working together here. Each time we hold consultations to determine the agenda of this place, and each time we say, "The right to set the agenda of this place is in the ruling group." We say we respect that, too, as a matter of national will. However, this agreement to set the agenda is unfortunately breaking down every time. I've been asked to bring it up again. Otherwise, we haven't made such a motion for opposition to this law. But the Consulting Board, which we did on the 27th of the month, which was formed by the participation of four parties, has been unable to get us out of here for seven or eight months. But that day, we set the agenda until the Council and the Council, signed by the four parties, closed down, which means we're on vacation. Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, Mr. İdris Baluken and I, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, have signed the agenda of the elections, and the agenda of the legislation to be removed, and we have signed and voted and approved. But I believe that a new law has been passed from one place to another, wherever the wind blows, without consulting the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0189par0106	Which one is he?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0188par0107	That's the law, Law 479. Dear friends, we find it very meaningful that a ten-year-old power, a government that values so much national will, a government that punishes the paralegal interference of national wills in illegal ways with Ergenekon and I don't know what kind of cases, comes to the end of a period like this and changes the 35th clause in internal service, and we find it very important, and we don't find it very right. As a result, it's a 43-point law. This law is a amendment to the Contracted Private and Private Law and some laws that we support, but the 17th, 18, 19th amendment to the Turkish Armed Forces Act. Here, for us, there are some very meaningful, very intentional, not very well-intentioned changes being made. The change is this: learning the art of war to protect Turkish country, sovereignty and republic is military. The definition of protecting the Turkish country, protecting the republic, protecting the republic, protecting the republic, is no longer military, and is defined only as learning the art of war. Why is it needed, why is it needed now? So does the revolution require law, according to what Article of the Constitution? But at such a time, the amendment to the 35th Amendment in the Internal Service Law... so clearly, I asked for a statement, and I asked you here today, are you bringing this with the demands of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? At a point when these talks have reached a deadlock or a threat point at work, what is the reason, by changing the definition of the Turkish Armed Forces, by changing the 35th clause that's been discussed all these years, by breaking the agreement reached at such a narrow time? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're gonna have to tell people about this. Of course, as the National Movement Party, to express our criticism, these innocent, innocent laws and substances, unfortunately, have been crippled like this. We're gonna go public with this. Why was Mr. Elitaş needed to answer on the stand? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0190par0113	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0191par0114	Mr. President, Mr. Shandir has called me to the stand and warned me to answer, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0190par0115	Wait a second. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0191par0117	Mr. Şandir, Deputy Chairman of the EC PARTY, Mr. Canikli, and all political parties have signed his recommendation that there was no such thing in our interviews, except for the promise he used a misleading statement.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0190par0118	Yeah, two minutes, I promise, for bullying. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, let's not get picky.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0192par0121	Mustafa, you've risen again, Mustafa! Mustafa, you're on your feet again!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0124	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, there's a parasite, but I don't mind him, he's a parasite. Well, we did, but let's not say it anymore. Dear MPs, look, I have a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0194par0126	Mr. Elitaş, this is a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors from June 27th.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0127	I've got the Council of Counsellors from June 25th in front of me.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0194par0128	June 27th.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0129	I've got the counseling board in front of me. You can call it the Council meeting. You signed it together.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0195par0130	Mr. Elitaş, who's the parasite, parasite?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0131	Here's the counseling board proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0196par0132	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0133	The Council of Counsellor's proposal, according to the 5th Amendment of the Turkish Parliament of the National Assembly, decided not to take a vacation on June 30th, not to take a vacation and work as of July 1st. On that day, on July 3rd, the decision to work was made to discuss Law Bill 475 rows as the main law and to discuss the development plan within a day, for the political party groups as long as 30 minutes, to discuss them by dividing them, and you know how many people the Presidential Court will consist of -- you know, within the share ratios. We said, frankly, we told our friends, Mr. Torlak, at our meeting on Monday, at this Monday's meeting. Dear friends, look, an emergency has arrived, there are six international contracts. In fact, I asked the Minister. One or six? He said there were six of them. Mr. Aslanoglu said, "Let's see what countries it concerns. Let's see, let's see, let's see. If you have any objections about this, let's get it out to the Minister's office. Let's get it out of the agenda." Now, Mr. Chancer, I mean, we're not against this law, but we object to this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me one more minute... [[The CHP rankings have ended.]] Look, just because we're against this doesn't mean we have to clear your conscience in public.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0197par0139	No, we don't want a plea of conscience, we want an answer to our question, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0140	It's about clearing your conscience.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0198par0141	We don't need you to clear our conscience, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0142	You can resist it any way you want, you can block it any way you want, but I'm not against the whole law, I'm saying yes to all of them, and I'm giving up because of this.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0199par0143	We want answers, answers, travel.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0200par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0145	The Deputy President of the Group failed to fulfill his promise to us.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0199par0146	You're not holding it again?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0147	But we signed a proposal with 12 groups of vice presidents...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0199par0148	Four groups of vice presidents.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0193par0149	We've signed 12 groups of vice presidents, Mr. Şandir. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0201par0157	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The proposal for law number 478 is 16th. The shape of the driver's documents in the article shall be replaced in the form of the driver's documents, class, and content, after the expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0202par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0201par0164	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0203par0165	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0201par0166	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0168	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 16 of Law Proposal 478. My respects to all of you. Now, of course, what's important here is that the House shouldn't be on vacation when the country's in so much trouble. Yeah, well, the AKP wants to take the House on vacation as soon as possible, because they're very uncomfortable with the fact that this bench is running. Because they have no face to answer to in public. Now, the high-value lawmakers have brought in general principles regarding the identification of driver's documents, left to the regulation. In fact, there are no regulations used during AKP rule. In fact, they left it in the regulations when it was supposed to be in the charter because it's so easy to change the regulations... now, of course, the AKP has a tactic here. 24 million driver's licenses will be changed, at least 2.5 quadrillion liras will be made, 100 euros each from all citizens, and that's all their accounts. I mean, that's the whole account when $2.5 billion is taken from a citizen. The others, the rest are details. Now, the valued MPs, of course, for the first time, I asked our congressman for a statement according to Article 58, and he had five minutes to speak according to Article 58, and he gave it to me. I'll thank him, I'll tell you that. Now, I said some things in my morning speech. For example, in his speech, Mr. Recep Tayyip described our Mr. President as the person who saw all the ugliness legitimate to benefit from blackness to whiteness, and in his statement that Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, had declared that he was a disgrace to the politics and to our president. Again, coming from Africa, the People's Party of the Republic said that it was unclean, that it was ugly. I wish Mustafa Elitaş was here... that they would put a treatment plant in this person's speech about the speech I gave here the day before... and then when he passed through the treatment plant, he said, "Let him speak through the filter." I wish he'd come out and put a decontamination plant in Mr. Tayip's mouth, pass the speech from this decontamination facility, and then have a proper conversation after that. He didn't say, "Let's do it." Now, dear lawmakers, look, someone will bring you the words you say to someone and tell them. In that sense, what we want... now, with this law, there's not much to come. I mean, in the law, you can't understand the word of the speaker on the Court, you can't understand the word of the Speaker, you can't understand the voice of the speakers on the stand. That's not gonna happen! I mean, who in this House doesn't know what he's voting for, guys. There's no such thing as a parliamentary debate, and there's no such thing as a law vote. I mean, we're talking serious stuff, but nobody knows what he's talking about, and he's voting here. Now, in my opinion, some of the laws brought here are not seriously debated in commissions, they are not debated in the General Assembly. It's an anonymous bill of law, and here, not everyone knows what they're voting for. Thus, we are in such a practice that will bring Turkey's future to darkness. So, members of lawmakers, I'm afraid we can't bring healthy service to the country in this way of negotiating. In that sense, we do not serve our country well with these law-negotiation systems. I mean, why stay here until now? At this hour... people don't have any sense, no sense.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0205par0176	If you don't have your own mind, ours does.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0177	Yeah, I get it, look, you torture people, you torture them. Let me tell you something else, Abdullah Gul says: "Sir, we named that bridge Yavuz Selim." Let's name another place after Pir Sultan Abdal and Hadji Bektas. Now, with Pir Sultan...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0206par0179	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0180	Just a minute, dear...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0206par0181	Please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0182	Pir Sultana...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0207par0183	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0206par0184	You can't talk about the President like that.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0185	Sir, Haci Bektaş, they didn't murder anyone...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0206par0186	Know your place!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0187	Now, Yavuz Sultan Selim... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...killing a mass. I mean, a person in the Republic of Turkey... okay, he's a man with a great name in the Ottoman state, but Alevi is a citizen...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0208par0190	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0209par0191	The seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is never an insult to the President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0192	I didn't insult you! I've never insulted you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0209par0193	Watch your language!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0210par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0195	So, Abdullah Gul says, sir...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0211par0197	Mr. Abdullah Gul... Mr. Abdullah Gul...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0210par0198	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0199	Let's call the bridge in Istanbul Yavuz Sultan Selim, but...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0212par0200	We get it, you don't get it, you don't get it!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0201	Let's call some places Pir Sultan Abdal, Haci Bektas.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0212par0202	You're not working at this hour!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0213par0203	Mr. Directors...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0204	Can Pir Sultan be compared with Haci Bektas, and Yavuz Sultan Selim?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0212par0205	Come on, you're not thinking at this hour!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0214par0206	Sit down!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0204par0207	Mustafa, you go ahead and sit down! You, now to the President... then, you take the President's seat.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0215par0209	Please, leave! Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0216par0211	Mr. President, I'm reading Article 161 of the Civil Code. Mr. President, I want you to apply Article 161.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0217par0212	Take a seat, sit down!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0218par0213	You're not thinking!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0216par0214	Don't be afraid, get over there, don't be afraid!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit07spe0219par0215	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0219par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will now resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. On the 16th article, I submit to you the motion of the Tunceli MP Kamer Young and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, members of lawmakers, I've filed a report on what Mr. Youth has said. Look, I'll tell you something else, Abdullah Gul says: "Sir, we named that bridge Yavuz Selim." Let's name another place after Pir Sultan Abdal and Hadji Bektas. Yes, members of parliament, Mr. Kamer is a verb that requires the temporary removal of the President's remarks on our President from parliament. Therefore, Mr. Kamer, Mr. Kamer, under Article 163 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0219par0008	One second, sir, and I'll finish my vows, and I promise you, yes. ...I'm going to propose a temporary sentence for the removal of three combinations from the parliament.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0010	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0219par0011	However, according to Article 163, Mr. Young can defend himself or anyone else...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0221par0012	I'll make a defense, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0013	One moment, sir... I want a word about the procedure.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0015	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0016	Mr. Young, he's on the stand, he's made an assessment. I asked for the report, and for some reason the report came to me when you were on the stand. You've probably been able to get this report before. When you took the stand, the report came to me. For one thing, I want to know why the report came late. Second, you're in the back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0018	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0019	I followed, the group's deputy chairman and 3-4 deputies from the Justice and Development Party have left your side.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0020	That's right, yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0021	You're considering this with the Justice and Development Party deputy, lawmakers, the opposition parties here, especially the Republican People's Party Group, his group's vice president, you're not inviting him back to assess it. Is that true, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0022	All right, your words?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0023	Are you Deputy Speaker of the ruling party, or Deputy Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0025	One moment, members of the law, please... Mr. Hamzacebi, okay?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0027	No, sir, just a second, I'm not finished. You have no right. If you're going to make an assessment, you will invite and evaluate all parliamentary deputies, the group presidents of political party groups, your opinion, you will share it there, you will agree or disagree with us, but you will discuss it in a civilized way. You're here, look, a one-sided government. If you continue this, Mr. President, you have no right.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0029	Okay, are we done, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0030	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0031	All right, your words?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0032	Yeah, it's over.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0033	Do you have your words?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0034	It's over, but I expect an explanation, of course.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0035	I'll explain if you're done.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0036	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0037	I didn't invite the ruling party's group's deputy president or any other lawmakers in to discuss it. I was with Mr. Riza Yalçınkaya all the way from the beginning until we came in here. After bringing in officers from the Department of Laws, Mr Yalçınkaya sent it to the photocopier to make a photocopy, and it was sent to you after receiving it. We bought it at the same time. I'll copy the report before I...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0038	No.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0039	Just a second, sir, so...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0220par0040	We didn't get it at the same time. You took it, and then he came to me.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0041	Okay, that's what I'm saying. I picked it up while I was sitting here, and as soon as I got it, we took it to Mr. Yalchinkaya and sent it to a photocopier. I didn't make an assessment with the deputy leader and the MP inside.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0044	What did you do?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0045	It's my decision, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0046	Sir, you should have invited us.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0047	Well, I'm gonna have to wait for a report. I can't wait in the back, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0049	I asked for the transcripts, I waited for the transcripts. That's all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0224par0050	Bring me the report, and I'll take the report.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0051	Look, Mr. President, you may not have invited the ruling party's vice president. They came to discuss this matter with you. Indeed, it is a sad statement for me to hear you say, "Riza Yalçınkaya was with us." I mean, the Republic...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0222par0052	No, if he gives me grief, I don't know about him, but I want to point out that Mr. Yalçınkaya is there. What should I say, Mr. Hamzacebi? I don't understand, so it's something you said.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0225par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0054	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a favor: please, look, you have a way of saying -- I'm sorry, it's just you -- you interrupt before I finish my speech.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0225par0055	Mr. President, open up a legal debate. Standing up like this...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0226par0056	But won't I ever answer, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0057	That makes our deal difficult, sir. If you'll excuse me, I'll finish my speech. The members of the ruling party came in the back without you inviting them, the vice president of the group. Probably a speech, an evaluation, something was done, or they expressed their views to you. If such a thing were to be born, then your duty is to invite us to it, which is fitting for you. That didn't happen, Mr. President. You're maturing a unilateral decision with the ruling party, where you're reporting it to the General Assembly. We don't accept that.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0226par0059	Mr. Hamzacebi, in order for me to apply Article 161, Mr. Young or anyone else, I do not need to evaluate this with any political party deputy. No such thing has ever been done. Let me make this clear. It's all my own idea, my own.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0223par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0226par0061	Other than that, sir, you just talked about the procedural debate. I'll open it, it doesn't matter, you talk, everybody talks...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0227par0062	Mr. President, where were you when Kamer was being cursed at the mother of the young?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0226par0063	...but what's important is that every time a congressman gets here, he's going to bring up the incident in the third joke of Article 161 of the Civil Code, when the President, the President, the Speaker of Parliament, should be insulted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0227par0064	Where were you when the congressman's mother was being insulted?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0226par0065	I've never argued with anyone, sir, I've decided on my own, and I'm going to do it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0228par0067	Mr. President, look, please don't take this any further.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0226par0069	I'm not pulling away at all, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0229par0071	You're the one who's pulling away.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0230par0072	Which way do you want it?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0231par0073	Guys, I'm having a civilized conversation, so if you can't stand it, I'm gonna give up!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0232par0075	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0233par0076	Mr. President, your position is being discussed right now, so open up the legal debate, let's do it, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0231par0077	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'm speaking.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0233par0078	Let's have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0231par0079	Mr. President, I haven't finished my speech.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0234par0080	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm starting a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0231par0081	Sir, just a second...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0234par0082	In favor, against?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0235par0083	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0236par0084	Mr. President, there's no such procedure here.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0234par0085	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0236par0086	In his favor, in his favor, Mr. President, in his favor.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0237par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0234par0088	I'm starting a formal debate, sir. Tell me if you want it in favor or against it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0237par0089	Against you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0238par0090	Mr. President, it's in your favor.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0239par0091	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0240par0092	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0241par0094	Mr. President, I mean, why two minutes, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0240par0095	How many minutes, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0241par0096	I need five minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0240par0097	I haven't given it to him yet. I'll give you three minutes, sir; I do what I always do. Here, I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0242par0100	Okay, so it could be three minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0240par0101	I always give you three minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0242par0102	But you said two minutes from the beginning.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0240par0103	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0242par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, look, I didn't come to the word of Mr. Kamer Young. I'm interested in the procedure first. Mr. President, what suits you is to invite us there when the ruling party's deputy and MPs arrive. Since there's been such an environment of discussion, if you call us, if you obey our opinion or not, this Parliament, this Parliament, this democracy, it's one.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0243par0109	Ask Reza Yalçınkaya.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0242par0110	Two: I heard the harsh sentences of a female MP from a ruling party here in a session recently. I don't remember who was running the hearing, but the Deputy Speaker didn't even need any warning. I expected a reaction from the ruling party's deputy leader, and he didn't react. She said, "I'm ashamed to be under the same roof as Republican People's Party MPs." I felt sorry for my fellow MP who said that sentence, and I couldn't describe it to that lady. I'd expect his band to react here, no, ma'am, come and fix it. Let him say it and fix it. He didn't do it. Second: Again, there was an unfortunate incident here about Mr. Kamer Young, and you all know it. I didn't wish to remind you, but I had to remind you. You created the ruling party's position, the one-sided position, the non-democratic attitude, the authoritarian attitude. You guys stopped that congressman from being punished.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0244par0112	It's a punishment for the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0242par0113	Has it been given? I may have misremembered.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0245par0114	It's a punishment.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0242par0115	Correction, correction. Correction, yes, he's there, actually, he might be. Now, I'll come to the sentence of Mr. Kamer Young. No doubt he'll defend himself, and I have no way of considering it. Of course, Mr. President, we're all presidents, we all have to respect that office. We must exclude the President from daily political debates. I don't take what Mr. Kamer Young said as an insult to Mr. President. An unfortunate sentence, a word that exceeds its purpose. Regarding the practice, this is an empty word. It is an assessment of the meaning of the practice. I don't take insults from here. If the young man were given this opportunity, if he had been given it, I'm sure he would have corrected it and corrected this misunderstanding. I don't see what it's like to put this bag of law talks back into tension when you can do that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's been unmanagement. That must have been incompatible. I'm drawing the attention of the ruling party Deputy Director of the Group, so let's not create a state of tension for nothing. We're discussing an important law, so let's consider it in silence, in cold blood. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0246par0120	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0247par0121	He's always doing the same thing.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0248par0122	Don't let him talk at this hour.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0246par0123	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0249par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I regret to inform you that Mr. Hamzacebi is taking the position of Mr. Hamzacebi here, despite the Republican People's Party Deputy's insult to the President, the Speaker's Council, the Speaker's office, and even the members of the Parliament, despite the fact that he has made it routine for Mr. Hamzacebi to take the position of defending that MP. Here we are, occupying the bench, warning a friend of his insults to a female minister, and in his altercation with an agitating MP, our application was a punishment for condemning and condemning. The harshest verb was a reprimand.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0250par0127	What did he say to the Minister?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0249par0128	See, here, from the 156th article of our Civil Code to the 163rd Amendment, discipline is required. It was the most severe punishment for condemning the congressman, and here we are, condemning him. But the Council of Parliament, the Speaker of Parliament, the President, the President, the Republic of the Republic, shall be sentenced to defamation, abusive, and disqualification of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, according to Article 161 of our Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0251par0129	Read me that insult!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0249par0130	I don't know who Mr. Hamzacebi is here, a fellow MP...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0251par0131	Read it! Read it!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0249par0132	Don't say anything, don't say anything! Listen in a civilized way! As Mr. Hamzacebi said, listen in a civilized way, listen in a civilized way!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0251par0133	Read it! Where's the insult? It's like a pumpkin.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0252par0134	Mr. Special, please, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0253par0135	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0254par0136	I wish that the Vice President of the Republican People's Party -- especially warning Mr. Altay -- would have warned the speaker, the deputy leader, to say, "Shut up, shut up." But everyone's going to talk to my congressman there, my congressman's going to talk to him here, a bunch of vice presidents are going to talk to him right behind his back, he's going to talk to someone else, he's going to ignore it. It'll be the same for everyone.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0255par0137	What are we going to do about Zayid Aslan, Zayid Aslan?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0254par0138	We've given the most severe punishment in the Civil Code, and we say: Look, we've made arrangements in the Turkish Parliament's Civil Code Compromise Commission that bring harsh punishments for blasphemy, insult.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0255par0139	Where were you when he was cursing his mother?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0256par0140	Shut up, listen!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0255par0141	Shut the fuck up! What a dirty man you are!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0256par0142	You're naughty!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0257par0143	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, look, you're making a statement about what you're saying over there when you're talking to me. Look, the expression that he's making in there... you can't just stand up and call the deputy president of the group a reflex. You can't tell the congressman who says, "Don't talk from the back, don't talk from the back, don't talk from the back." That's your justice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This MP, who has made it a habit to insult the President, has a habit of insulting members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and this MP, who has made it a habit of insulting the Prime Minister, has to be punished according to Article 161 of our Civil Code. I salute you all by expressing that the position of president is correct.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0258par0148	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0259par0149	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş has teased me, but I just want to explain to you that I don't want to talk to you about bullying. I'm really curious, Mr. Elitas, is what you call justice just for you? I was just on this bench. I've been trying to have a quiet conversation while I'm talking, but a lot of friends from the Justice and Development Party have spoken in order to keep me from talking.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0257par0150	We silenced it, raised our hand. Okay? You don't realize.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0259par0151	And yet, you stood there.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0260par0152	Don't lie in front of your eyes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0257par0153	Don't call me a liar, don't be rude!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0261par0154	Come on in!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0262par0155	You see that, don't you? Look, a group of vice presidents is sitting down, and now he's talking to our friends on our side.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0257par0156	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0263par0157	He's lying. He's lying!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0262par0158	Is that where you're dealing? I'm your handler.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0257par0159	No, you're lying to me. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0264par0160	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, who has made a promise against my conviction.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0265par0161	Mr. President, actually... let Mr. Chancer speak.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0264par0162	I promised, one second...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0265par0163	Wait a minute... but if you look at the reports, it was my word against yours, but I handed it over to Mr. Shandir. Oh, that's me on the report.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0264par0164	But, Mr. Altay, I understand that I've considered it to be from every party. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0265par0166	But it's against me. Here, I'll hand it over to Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0266par0167	Dear friends, we've been through this and this sort of thing many times. This is the time that we all have in common. What good do you expect from twelve o'clock at night, and what good do you expect? Therefore, these events do not suit our Assembly. For once, as the National Movement Party Group, we can never allow the President to be insulted by those who run our state, and we cannot defend it in any way. Mr. Kamer Young will defend himself, but we, as a group, can't possibly approve of insults to the government's rulers, to the President, or to anyone else. Secondly, I respect the reaction of Mr. Hamzacebi. Indeed, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be led by the group's representatives of the parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we do that all the time. That's what Mr. Yakut did every time. In situations like this, the group would call the vice presidents into the back room, decide what needs to be done together, and we would take it together. Not this time; that would be nice. Mr. Elitaş went in the back, and we'd have waited for him to call us. So if a decision was to be made, it would be stronger, more meaningful if we all made it and we all owned it. He didn't do that. I don't know if there's any particular purpose in his absence, Mr. President, but I think it's useful to do so. Again, dear friends, it's 2:00 p.m. We've been working since 00. It's been twenty-four, ten hours. So there's no way our physics can stand it. If I say nice things to you now, they're too heavy. He carries a glass with this fatigue. So we're not about to charge the last drop, we need to question all the reasons that filled that glass. So, if we're causing or causing acts that are unbecoming to the nation's Parliament, like the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that's unfair, that's responsibility. You can kill the mosquito, but if you don't dry the swamp, we have to eliminate those reasons. Therefore, I think it's better for the Speaker of the House to take the decision together by calling all the members of the group to the rear when making such decisions. I don't know why he didn't do it this time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0267par0172	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0268par0173	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify. Look, when the congressman insulted Mr. President here, I came here to take a stand. He didn't get off the stand, he flinched, he got scared, I backed off. That's when you shut down the General Assembly. I'm here to see why you shut down the General Assembly when you closed it. But at that time, you wanted the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0269par0175	What's it to you? The president, he closes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0268par0176	I've expressed that there's a different sentence there. There, here's our friend, the witness, we didn't mean anything by being punished like this. You have already stated that this punishment is required according to Article 161 of the Civil Code, before I speak. That's what I meant to avoid a misunderstanding.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0270par0177	Hey, why don't we freshen up on that P.O. swear?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0271par0178	Yes, Mehmet Doğan Kabbat, Istanbul MP who has asked for a word in favour of my position.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0272par0180	Mr. President, I have your word in favor of your attitude. I salute your high council. Dear friends, there's just been an evaluation here that really upsets all of us. In Article 104, the President is described as the head of the state. It represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation; it monitors the implementation of the Constitution, the regular and harmonised work of state bodies. Any insult we make to him is an insult to our nation. Dear MPs, in Article 157 of the Charter, to interrupt the words, to break the peace, to work order, to deal with the individual, to speak in 160 words and hurtful words, to cause noise and strife in the House, to attack, all of which are forbidden. It's not allowed to speak without a word from the president, and it's not allowed here at this time, but unfortunately -- I'm sorry to say -- which one of us fits in? For the most recent opposition MP on the stand, I'm speaking to my esteemed members of the group, from the Republican People's Party, can you really digest these assessments? Is it appropriate to put the President of the Republic of Turkey under the name of the President of the Republic of Turkey? It doesn't have to be a crime to describe honor, honor and dignity in a way that offends you. These were counted in Article 125 of the Turkish Penal Code. You don't have to call him a thief to hurt a man's honor, to offend him. We need to be careful with our evaluations. Dear friends, therefore, in the third joke of Article 161... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Don't beat around the bush, fellas. The third joke of Article 161 is clear. Blaspheming against the President is a temporary act.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0273par0189	Doğin Abi, read it, what did he say?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0272par0190	Even if there's no insult here, even if there's no concrete verb there, it won't eliminate this abusive verb.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0274par0191	Read it, what does it say?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0272par0192	Because here, with a humiliating assessment...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0275par0193	How did he say it?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0272par0194	...it is also a crime of blasphemy, to place the President's honor, honor, and dignity in an assessment that will offend him. Therefore, it is appropriate for Mr. President to take action at the point of applying this clause to the Supreme Assembly's decision. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0197	Thank you. Congressmans, there has been no change in my position to sentence Mr. Kamer Yüçük to be removed from parliament.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0277par0199	Mr. President, there is no insult.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0200	The procedure is in accordance with Articles 161, 162 and 163 of the Civil Code. Now, if Mr. Young would like to make his plea, I'd like to call you to the stand.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0202	How many combinations are you giving? How many mergers are you serving?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0203	I'll offer you three combined sentences, yes.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0204	Three combinations, all right, all right.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0205	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0206	Mr. President, the right to defend cannot be restricted. Look, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0207	I'll give you five minutes, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0208	No, not five minutes, sir. The right to defend cannot be restricted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0209	I'll give it to you in the morning, dear.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0210	Sir, no, you'll give it to me indefinitely. In the way the House operates, the right to defend cannot be restricted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0211	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0212	It can't be restricted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0213	The previous applications are obvious, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0214	You can't limit it, Mr. President. Look, you can't limit me over time because the right to defend can't be restricted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0279par0215	Mr. President, it's in the Civil Code of 163.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0216	Mr. Young, you'll have five minutes to defend yourself.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0217	You can't limit your right to defend, so you can't limit your time.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0218	The previous applications are obvious.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0219	Look, indefinitely...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0220	You don't get to decide here, there are rules.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0221	No, sir, look, I mean, in this House...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0222	There's a protocol. I'll take out the previous apps. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0224	Sir, there's no such thing as an app. So far, the right to defend on this stand cannot be restricted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0225	You're not the decision maker. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0227	I will exercise my right to defend until morning.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0276par0228	Time's up, sir. Five minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0229	No, not five minutes, indefinitely... Friends, I mean, the right to defend is unrestricted, the right to defend is infinite because, look, look at the Civil Code... (AC PARTY rows) But make it...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0280par0231	The right to defend cannot be abused.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0232	I mean, Mr. President, does it suit you? I mean, limiting people's right to defend... would that happen?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0280par0233	You're abusing me.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0234	Bring it in, where's the five-minute defense? That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0281par0235	It's in the box, it's in the box.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0236	No, sir, no, I mean, the right to defend is unrestricted, my friends.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0282par0237	Mr. Young, I'm rebooting your time, giving you ten minutes due to general provisions. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0239	You don't have to give me ten minutes. Look, members of lawmakers, now, I actually see that Abdullah Gul has been chosen by the AKP Group. That's why I don't accept myself as President. Maybe. [[From the AK PARTY, Mr. President, the voices, the noise.]] Yeah, shut up, and I'll talk to you later.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0283par0245	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0246	Now, look, why don't I take it? Now, first of all, for once, there is a clause in the election of President of our Constitution. In order to be elected president, 367 members of parliament must vote first. That means something. In Article 104, the President needs to be a neutral, independent person who oversees the functioning of the state's organs, who earns all the love, respect, when the state is in a jam, when it jams the state's institutions, democracy, when it's blocked -- that person should be seen by the public, as an authority that is being applied to by political parties, due to its actions. I am among the producers of this Constitution (the Constitution) because it is envisioned in the Constitution - 367 games must be used. If 367 votes weren't used in the presidential election, then Parliament says: I don't approve of this candidate. O Parliament, withdraw this. Instead, bring me a new presidential candidate. lt's legal. I mean, the men who understand it know it, the people who understand law, the people who know constitutional philosophy, the law. Oh, I'm in no position to say anything to ignorant people who don't know. Now, first of all, Abdullah Gul was not chosen according to these procedures, he was elected by the AKP, one-sided, notary at AKP.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0284par0248	What did Ahmet Necdet Sezer do?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0249	And look, he chooses a member of the Constitution, he chooses a member of the State. Recep Erdogan's aunt's son brought him in when he graduated from the Institute of Islam; they elected him a member of the State; he had nothing to do with the State, and they brought him in, and they gave him away. Therefore, in any savings, he has no neutrality in any practice he has done, he has no neutrality in securing the institutions of the state of the Republic of Turkey, he has not claimed the state of the secular Republic of Turkey. On this stand, the Republic of Turkey is insulted, insulted by the unity and integrity of the state, the geography of this republic is divided, where are you? Why don't you take care of it? One day, the unity and integrity of this state, the republic, when its geography is torn apart here, one of you will come out and say, "There is no such geography." Did you object when this republic was so insulted? You didn't. Because you have no respect for the Republic of Turkey, no respect for the state of the secular Republic of Turkey, no respect for the Turkish nation, no respect for the founders of this state.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0285par0250	Don't lie, liar!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0251	So, that's who you are. So, now, I'm here... Abdullah Gul comes out, and says to the bridge, which I will call Yavuz Selim. He came out of there, laughing like that. When the citizens of Alevi say no this time, OK, let's name it after Yavuz Sultan, but elsewhere let's call it Hadji Bektas, let's call it Pir Sultan Abdal. My dear friends, Sultan Yavuz may be a great Ottoman commander, with all due respect, I'm not saying anything, but while he was doing it once, he joined with the Kurdish Idris-i Bitli, and cut off the Redheads, a great massacre. This is a fact from history. Now, our citizens of Alevi, friends, this has slaughtered and slaughtered people from our faith. Okay, we have nothing against your command, and we respect it, so it's a respected commander of the Ottoman Empire, but for this thing, let's not name this bridge. Thus, it offends us. They say. Abdullah Gul has now explained this, and Abdullah Gul says, "Sir, let's call this bridge Yavuz Sultan Selim, but let's name another place after Hadji Bektas and Pir Sultan Abdal. Friends, Pir Sultan Abdal and Haci Bektas, who have served humanity with great service, who have instilled love, respect, unity, unity, the best of human love, who have done no evil to anyone in their lives, are very human, very human.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0286par0256	It has no effect on you!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0257	Now, there's a lack of expression, a lack of understanding, to compare these people to Sultan Selim. That's what I mean by pumpkin. I mean, friend, okay, but now, if this Pir Sultan Abdal had gone out and cut up people in a cult, or Hadji Bektas had slaughtered people who were members of a cult, yeah, well, we gave him that name, and he said, "Let's name this one," he'd have a sense, he'd have a sense.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0287par0258	Speech! Sing Sabiha Gökçen.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0259	So it's not as simple as saying it, it's empty, I said it. So, now, Abdullah Gul could be a member of your party.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0287par0260	Sabiha Gökçen, Tunceli!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0261	I mean, I don't respect Abdullah Gul, because every antidemocratic law that comes out here has approved all of its interests, the nation's interests, the quality of the members he appointed to the Constitutional Court, the quality of the members he appointed to the State. Well, now, friends, a person who lives in the presidency, he's the office of the presidency's required neutrality, bias, democracy, and if he's not acting under the principles of the law, we can't respect him because he's going to provide the environment in which he should be respected when he represents the office.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0287par0262	Why do you respect Sabiha Gökçen? Why don't you tell your executioner?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0263	Now, Sabiha Gökçen... just change your name. Oh, now, look, I mean, you think so primitive! Now, you are the enemy of those who built this republic. You are the people who have come on a special mission to destroy this republic.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0288par0265	Are you in love with your executioner?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0266	So, now, look, when you say this, your President-General is making every insult he's ever said. You don't say a word to a person who does these insults. I said, "Well, that's a lot of pumpkin talk. " There's no insult in that, my friends. Oh, if you're insulted. You know, if you had the chance, you'd burn me alive, and I know it. (Applause from CHP rows, AK PARTY rows) 'Cause why? I speak of your thefts, I speak of corruption. You have destroyed all the most holy things of this land, and destroyed the unity and integrity of this land. Now, you've delivered the east, southeast to the PKK. Today, the army is now at the police station, where the state of the Republic of Turkey is not there. This is because of you, because of Recep Erdogan, because of Abdullah Gül.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0289par0267	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0268	You're going to pay a heavy price for this (HPP rows) so don't look... tomorrow day, you can't go out there either, but Abdullah Gul says that he's the one who's been keeping Erdogan in power for 11 years. He's right, and on March 21st, in Diyarbakir Square, he says:
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0290par0269	Can you go to Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0270	...a new sun will rise in this country now. This sun will rise a new state. From now on, the flag of the Republic of Turkey will be destroyed and a state under the flag of Sharia will be established.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0291par0271	What's that got to do with anything? Don't lie to me!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0272	And your Abdullah Gul says: "We approve of this." Erdoğan says: "We approve of this."
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0291par0273	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0292par0274	Do you have the heart to go to Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0275	What this means is that we will destroy the state of the Republic of Turkey, instead we will remove the Turkish flag under a Shariat state. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] What's Erdogan saying? Lift up the Turkish flag now, and bring the three crescent flags instead. What does that mean? You're lifting the Turkish flag. You're in every order to destroy the national emotions of the Turkish nation. Abdullah Gul is in charge of this, Recep Erdogan is in charge. You lift the celebrations of Republic Day, you remove the celebrations of August 30th, you remove the celebrations of May 19th, you destroy the national thrills of this country. Whose government are you, whose government are you? Who are you chasing? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Is this government so devastating, friends? I mean, whatever punishment you give me, I don't give a damn, but I... [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm not done yet.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0286	Yes, Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0287	Please, let me exercise my right to defend myself.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0294par0288	Poor thing!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0289	Time's up, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0290	Allow me to exercise my right to defend myself.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0291	Please, Mr. Young. It's just...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0292	The right to defend cannot be restricted.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0293	We're not, sir, so you know that.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0294	Take a break, speak on the Speaker's Court. The right to defend is unrestricted, my friends.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0295	That's the way it's been done so far, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0296	Now, the people whose immunity has been lifted have defended themselves here.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0297	There's been a lot of...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0298	Defense can't be restricted, but you don't know what defense is.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0299	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0278par0300	In this regard, here, Abdullah Gul is not my President.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0295par0302	Thank God it's not yours!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0303	Yes, members of the Parliament, Mr. Kamer, under Article 163 of the Interior Charter, I submit to your votes that you will be temporarily sentenced to release three mergers from the Parliament: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. Mr. Young, please leave the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0296par0305	I'm not going out. Take a break from the merger, and then I'll be out.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0293par0306	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0296par0307	I won't.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0297par0308	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0298par0309	Get out!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0299par0310	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0297par0311	Mr. President, as a person who respects the rules and as a party, we just... First, let me tell you: I think you should take a break from the General Assembly, and when you come back, Kamer Young will have done what he had to do. However, now that you're implementing disciplinary regulations, Mr. President, Article 157... 18 times when Kamer Young was on the stand -- it was violated by nine other lawmakers. Now, I think what Mr. Young is saying in today's speech is a word like a pumpkin. If, in this case, Mr. President of the State of the State, he deserves this punishment, but in the words of Mr. Young, a word like the zucchini in the sentence of Mr. Young, such a punishment goes into the history of the world parliaments.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0300par0315	I don't know what else to say!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0297par0316	A word from a president. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, please... how are we supposed to work here?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0301par0319	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0297par0320	How are we supposed to work if I can't explain myself as a Group Vice President?
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0301par0321	Mr. Altay, not just for you, but for every speaker, every party does this.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0302par0322	You serve the AKP!
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0297par0323	Mr. President, I'm finishing. I'm ending it, Mr. President. In short, Mr. President, a lot has been said in our political life in the past about the Chankaya Mansion in this country. Velev is in the Parliamentary tradition of bullying, but these days, bullying at the ruling party has taken place in place of harassment, and it has taken place as a choir abuse, and you, as Acting President, are powerless as acting Speaker of Parliament. We, the opposition, see this situation as a minority, now above acceptable points. The decision is not for the word spoken tonight. However, Mr. Young had 10 acts in parliament that fit your person -- I'm a witness -- in the General Assembly -- which you did not, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't. But for some reason, this is the punishment that you did not punish Mr. Young, for insulting you, for criticizing you, etcetera, this evening, by using Mr. President as a pool of water that has accumulated and accumulated and ransacked at the last drop of water. That's quite all right, but Mr. Young will not leave the General Assembly unless you interrupt the session. My respects.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0303par0327	Mr. Altay, I read Article 162 of Article (2): As soon as this sentence is given, it will be carried out immediately. If the MP who received this sentence opposes the execution of his sentence...
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0304par0328	Yes, I'm coming because I don't respect your punishment.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0303par0329	Just hang in there. ..the president will immediately call off the session and ask the administrative supervisor to remove that MP from the hall.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0305par0331	Okay, you close it.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0303par0332	First, Mr. Young, please leave the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0305par0333	Okay, turn it off now.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0306par0334	Neither do I, because I don't respect you, and I don't respect this group.
tbmm-2013-07-04sit08spe0303par0335	However, the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not an insult to the President, the Prime Minister and the members of the state. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
