tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer, who wants to speak on behalf of the Day of Turkish Governors. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0002par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on January 10th. I salute your high council. The date of January 10th has two meanings. The first is that it was accepted as Working Journalists Day, and the second is celebrated as Management Day in our country. I congratulate both trade groups, thank you, and wish you success. In all parts of our country, our executives, who work with a high sense of duty, who have achieved great success as a community leader, have an important share in the development of Turkey. The administrators have performed highly honorable tasks as representatives of the state where they are. Our people have always seen the head of property management in the provinces and counties as the state's father, where they have tried to find a solution by delivering their troubles to him. What we're talking about today is the target population of both sides of society. Both are people who work to better govern society, to be better informed, to bring it to a better life. Let's try to get to know the handlers in a brief fraction of what a manager thinks of the past. Looking back at the past, as a man who spent almost 35 years of his life managing property, I remember back-to-back days, back-to-back with our citizens, in the snow-falling roads, in the avalanches, in the landslide, in the earthquake, in order for society to live in health, safety and peace. I remember my child who completed elementary school in three different counties only 25 days after he was born because of terrorism. For years, I remember the anxiety that terror digested into the hearts and eyes of our families. I remember the government, the father of the state, who, in every trouble, could knock on his door in every desperate situation, when a simple citizen who faithfully adhered to his government and social values suffered. I remember the happiness of a village road, a school, a health clinic, the electricity that lit his room when he touched the button, the water flowing in the fountain, the people we shared with him. So, what's the situation now? When we look from a historical depth and mission to the point that has come to us today, it is a pity that either of you may not be a part of it. After that, if it comes to your liking, they have been confronted with a complete lack of loyalty. In particular, during this period of power, the positions and powers of managers have been largely eroded by various practices in the ten-year period. The management of the property has been permanently abused. Governors have been created who have been placed in the driver's seat of the coal-laden truck, who have been commissioned to distribute coal sacks like a branch of the ruling party, to distribute refrigerators to the village without electricity. In order to act, property managers of the ruling party's mayor have been created to look him in the eye. In order to silence the opposition, the authorities have been created to manage the property that is constantly using public power in favour of power. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers should not be reduced to wire transfer agencies, and governors should refrain from discrediting that concept. I have a word with Mr. Home Secretary here. Mr. Secretary, in one speech, you said you had a duty as a minister to address the problems of our valued rulers who served our country and our nation. Madam Secretary, all owners of the estate expect you to stand by this promise and make the necessary arrangements as soon as possible. As I finish, I honor and praise all our rulers who serve our country with honor, and all our journalists who work day and night to enlighten the community. I wish for the freedom of the members of the press who were imprisoned in Silivri. Again, I pay my respects to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. The second word outside the agenda is from İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca, who asked for a comment on the Day of Journalists who worked on January 10th. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, I've taken a stand off the agenda. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is the Day of Workers' Journalists on January 10th. Fifty-two years ago today, January 10, 1962, Law 212 came into force. This law has been one of the major turning points for our press, because with this law, an arrangement has been made to improve the rights of journalists. Today, regulations have been made in our relevant institutions, in the Press Law, in the RTÜK Law, in the criminal law and other relevant legislation, as well as in improving the working conditions of media members, resolving the problems they face in their professions, and still some work is being carried out. It's important for press workers to be able to function in a free environment. Thus, we will continue to be determined to make amends in the coming process. As a matter of fact, the law on the right of journalists to wear out is envisioned in our General Assembly today. At this morning's press conference, our AK PARTY Vice President, Media Promotion Unit President Mr. Hussein Çelik, has also explained to reporters that the right of journalists to wear out may be on the agenda by violating the bill discussed in today's General Assembly. It also makes sense that this arrangement will be held on the Day of Journalists working on January 10th. Today, our press is developing in terms of innovations in communication technologies, as well as in writing and visual dimensions. Thus, at the point where our country arrived today, the efforts of the press workers are also involved in their sacrifice. Therefore, despite the harsh and difficult conditions of journalism, it is of particular importance to provide better opportunities for journalists who strive to do their professional responsibilities in the best possible way. Because steps in this direction mean not only our press, but also the strengthening of our democracy. The best way that the press can carry out its duties and responsibilities, including reporting and monitoring, is one of the key elements of our democracy, so it's very important. Ladies and gentlemen, another topic I would like to point out, by the way, is that it is important for journalists not to deviate from the universal standards of law while doing this task. So no matter what happens, society has to look out for its benefits. In particular, a person should respect his rights and privacy. It is important that society never compromises, rather than the principle of accurate information and information. As a long-standing member of the press, I would like to point out that I have the confidence that our journalists will continue to contribute to this sense of responsibility and to our country's development. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with this feeling and thought, I celebrate the January 10th Day of Journalists' Day, the anniversary of the adoption of the law that regulates the rights of press workers. I wish you all the best media members. I welcome the press workers who lost their lives on their mission, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Osman Oktay Sokşi, who asked for a speech due to the Day of Journalists who worked on January 10th. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, honorable friends, journalists are mentioned from time to time in Turkey, one of them today is Labor Journalists' Day, and that is why I stand before you. To be honest, journalistic festivals only happen on the day they're announced to us, but on the first anniversary, most of them are referred to as mourning days. As a matter of fact, hundreds of journalists are currently filling up the Silivri concentration camp to support their friends in prison. From here, I salute all those journalists who are freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and all those who support them. That's our status on the Day of the Workers' Journalists' Day, January 10th. And that's the truth that gave our country the world's greatest journalistic prison fame today. I'm not going to mention the persecution of our media, which has been oppressed by your political power at no time in our history. You know that and there's no one in the civilized world who hasn't. For now, the more I think about history's judgment on you, the more I tell your account that I'm too scared. As for today, January 10th is very important to journalists, because the 212th Law, which came out exactly fifty-one years ago, opened up an apocalypse for employers who forced newspaper owners to sign a written contract with journalists. The owners of the nine major newspapers of that period -- Seğin, Cumhuriyet, Earth, Milliyet, Hurriyet, Translator, Vatan, New Sabah and New Istanbul -- announced today that they closed their newspapers for three days. The journalists who worked on it held hands and kept the reader in the paper for three days and declared January 10th the Day of Labor. It's sad, but I'm compelled to say that during the past hundred and eighty-one years of press history, the censors, the pressures, the employers who didn't feel the need for solidarity in the face of prison sentences, when it came to giving the workers their dues, they were singled out and vacationed their newspapers for three days. This mentality, the disease of running a journalist to the fullest, unfortunately, is the oldest and most fundamental problem of our press history -- except for a few institutions -- because employers later used all sorts of ways not to apply Law 212. As a matter of fact, as many as 80,000 journalists today have a contract of employment, which is only 4,000 per 20, which is the same as Law 212, and the remaining 75,000 journalists are slaves of their own employer -- if I'm right. Like most people in power, you complain about the press. I know you can find a lot of examples to prove that you're right, but you don't think that if the journalist doesn't get the fee he deserves, except for social security -- he doesn't get the quality of this job, and if he does, he doesn't stop; then journalism stays in low places. So the first thing is to improve the human quality of the press. To do so is to clear a few loose ends that prevent the full implementation of Law 212. The proposed legislation has been in the Parliament's Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission for over a year. And you haven't returned the journalist's share of wear and tear five years ago. That's why you've been... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're actually the source of your complaints about the press. The plague of continuing this is yours, the majority of you. I'm telling you, my friends, the rest is your business. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0007par0058	Thank you, Mr. Sour. In the name of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0008par0062	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I would like to thank Mr. Tülay Kaynarca and Mr. Oktay Sokşi. Because on January 10th, it has been celebrated as Working Journalists' Day for a period of time. This is the coming anniversary of Law 212, which has important rights for journalists. Today, we've all worked to congratulate our fellow journalists on their present, and to listen to their problems, to present them if there are any answers. As of 10:30 a.m., our Parliamentary Journalists Association visited groups of all our parties, interviewed our media friends, and discussed issues related to the agenda as well as issues that directly concern journalists. I also congratulate my friends who make these visits because I've seen them touch important issues in my notes. Dear friends, there is no doubt that our fellow journalists have a lot of problems that are expressed or unintended. It's a business. Our friends who have earned the position of journalist, who work in any written press or audio media or Internet media -- some members of the press card, while not having it -- are actually doing journalism; our friends who have done the best work; they also perform an important function at the point of being the eyes, the ears and the language of the people. Of course, when it came to journalists or journalists, in particular in recent years, a number of issues began to be discussed. One of them was that in 2008, the Social Security Law went back to its final form, while some of the workforces and journalists' actual service increases were eliminated. When we talk, we call it the right to lose weight, or the right to lose weight, but in the law, it's called a financial service increase. In particular, we know that our friends have been doing a very tiring, very exhausting job -- those who have lost their lives in some dangerous work, those who have been injured, our friends who have been deprived of their ability to work -- four years have passed, and let our actual service increases be restored. A study was launched on these demands under the orders of our Prime Minister. I've made my preparations, I've done my studies, but it's our Department of Labor and Social Security that actually has to apply the Social Security Act directly. Mr. Secretary also felt the need to gather the Science Council on this subject to get information from them and get a report on it. Of course, you'll admit that it's important to relocate what we call a disintegration or a fiscal service increase, because it's not only in 2008 that the right for journalists has been removed, there are other business branches, and they have demands to be reinstated. How real is that, what it's going to bring or take to the social security system, it's needed to work on that. Again, no doubt, it's also true that our fellow journalists work as hard as war correspondents, as well as cameramen, like our friends who follow the news, but it's true to say that everyone who has earned the title of journalist is in exchange for the same wear and tear, and there must be another aspect of the issue. But when all of these studies are completed, and we're about to go into legislature studies, and there's a law in our Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and we have a common proposal from all parties, our friends say that a clause can be added, and this can happen, and our journalist friends will see that they've done what they've wanted to do for a long time, and that they've done what they've been saying and that they've done for a long time. And I would like to express that I would be truly happy to have those rights recognised by our friends. Of course, it's the issue of freedom of the press that's been on the agenda for the past year or two. It is known that freedom of the press does not remain in Turkey, that many journalists are imprisoned or imprisoned in prison, and that many of the organs in Turkey speak on one side, such as the monitoring boards of journalists abroad, or organizations such as their commissions or agencies, have published reports on freedom of the press in Turkey. Both during budget talks and some other press conferences, Mr. Attorney General and I are on the subject. There are two fundamental laws that concern journalists or media members, one of which is the Turkish Penal Code, and one of which is the Anti-Terror Law. Some special laws may include criminal or criminal offenses that require criminal fines, but as far as I know, there are a lot of people who are born from the implementation of the Anti-Terror Law and therefore are arrested or convicted. Other than that, there are very few people who have been sentenced to a personal freedom-binding sentence because of the writing, the book he published, the cartoon he drew. Three or four articles in the Turkish Penal Code are important. One of them is a violation of the privacy of the investigation. The secrecy of the investigation is an essential provision in the Turkish Penal Code. Both the Penal Code and the Penal Code have predicted that the investigation -- old or new -- will be classified for years. Since we have not given up this sentence, and we see it as a stay-in sentence, there is no way that the violation of the investigation will be eliminated. However, when it comes to criminal justice between crime and punishment, perhaps it is a reflection of the terms of punishment. Attempting to influence a judicial trial is one of the separate crimes, and negligence is one of the other crimes. There was a change in the Penal Code, which we had introduced to you in the past term on the Turkish Penal Code, but did not pass through the General Assembly. It may or may not be possible to bring this back to us. Redefine the elements of the crime, re-adjust the relationship between crime and punishment in favour of journalists. I would say that some amendments to the Anti-Terror Law, particularly in the Fourth Criminal Package, can be a relief, but the complete elimination of the law is not in question for a Turkey currently fighting terrorism. I also understand from the speeches of my two friends that journalists are in real trouble doing this as a profession, but most of these problems are not due to our government or its practice. And I know that when I visit our friends often, a lot of our friends in some media industry haven't been paid in months. Attempts to impress the boss against those who haven't been paid in months can only happen in words, or we can't do it legally. When expressed to them, yes, they were told that they were not able to pay for five or six months due to some financial difficulties, whereas we can see that the same bosses were able to get billions of dollars in advance in larger jobs. So it's a shame that newspaper bosses don't pay employees' wages for months, and it's a huge flaw. There are no working guarantees. Our fellow journalists are in danger of being put outside the door every day. So what he's gonna do is I'm gonna be out of a job tomorrow, and I'm in a spot where I can't bring bread to my house. Yes, there's a lot of newspapers, not unionizing themes on a lot of TVs, but the effects. Unfortunately, with only two unions in the Anadolu Agency today, it is impossible to find a single union in any other press and broadcaster. Again, I want to say that the bosses don't want journalists to form unions, to demand their rights in union ways. They're underpaid. Unfortunately, it is known that only those who write in certain corners or have certain names are paid by multi-zero figures, including transfer fees, but I must say that the actual workers, reporters, in the lower level, the kitchen staff's wages are very low. And one of the things that I can tell you is that even though communications faculty graduates have an extraordinary number of graduates, they still don't get the attention they need in the media sector. I must make no exceptions to some newspaper bosses -- no doubt they don't wish to employ our friends who have graduated from communications faculty or media broadcasts, but in our Anadolu Agency, the Editor-in-Chief of Media Information, one of the things we've done most in the Radio Television Oversight Council in recent years has been to ensure that the graduates of communication faculty work in these institutions. Again, we take some encouraging measures, but we regret to see that the students of the communications faculty, which have reached thousands, are unfortunately impossible to study. Therefore, while the job security is very difficult, the wages are very low and may not be paid for for months, it is not right that all the problems of journalists should be reduced to the share of wear and tear when there is trouble at the point of forming a union and demanding their rights with that union. This is a right, this right will be fulfilled, but I think that all of our deputies, all of our political parties, have the right to make the necessary effort for journalists to actually make the necessary effort to deal directly with those people and even bring them to Parliament in matters that are suffering. Of course, the Plan and Budget Commission also discussed our budgets, but I'd like to say that I've been very careful about all these issues in institutions that depend on me. It's a responsibility, of course we'll carry out our responsibility. Of course, many of our friends, who are under arrest, who are journalists, and who know that we have an MP in them, know that I'm on the side of evacuations, and I'm personally demanding their freedom. Believe it or not, at least for two years, I ask you to believe that we've been sincere about what we've been saying for over a year. Without a doubt, there is a judgment in Turkey. The trial is one of the three men, and although the third judicial package has been released, they have made a decision concerning the case and the defendants, only through objections or appeals can it be met. It may be possible for a political will or executive to criticize the decisions made by a direct judiciary, but there is no way that it can be directed and effective in that decision, at least the Constitution opposes it. My dear friends, as our Editor-in-Chief of the Press and Information, we have raised the number of county managers, which were seven in the past, to 17 put forward by the decree issued last year. With the number of local newspapers, the number of TVs, the number of press members with press cards currently in Turkey, we have established 17 district managers in different parts of Turkey. I think these county departments will be even more effective at the point of meeting all the needs of our friends in the press. Our newly established district offices are Afyonkarahisar, Bursa, Çanakkale, Edirne, Gaziantep, Kayseri, Kolya, Samsun, Şanlıurfa. These were established -- previously -- in addition to Adana, Antalya, Diyarbakır, Erzurum, İstanbul, İzmir and Tripoli. Again, with the latest ruling of the law, the resources of representatives of our foreign organization -- press advisers or press advisers -- have been increased in the countries in which they were founded. Almati, Ashkabat, Ashkabat, Athens, Baku, Berlin, Bern, Beirut, Brussels, Islamabat, Cairo, Nicosha, London, Moscow, Washington, New York, Vienna, Paris, Riyadh, Rome, Tehran, Tashkent, Tokyo, added to the press conferences, Abuja, Bishkek, Brazil, Jakarta, Sarajevo, Sofia, Kuala Lumpur, The Hague, Beijing, Stockholm, and some other countries have been established and have been appointed as journalists. We've got the assistant staff, we've done our exams for these staff. We have also received executive interpreter staffs in languages that are widely used in English, French, German. We've come to a good point in the news service. We also do news services abroad. We also established the State Information System. The television channel we watch here has been raised from 8 to 40, from 23 to 27, from Internet news portal from zero to 300, and the foreign radio station has been increased. These sources were recorded for three hundred sixty-five days and 24 hours, making it an information report. We're also doing local media training seminars. The last time we had an education seminar in the district of Mugla was attended by nearly 300 of our fellow journalists, which brought together eight provinces. In addition, our Editor-in-Chief of the Press Publishing Information has made changes to the Press Card Charter, and many journalists who have not been able to have press cards in the past have made press cards, and the members of the yellow press card have been given different advantages. The most important, perhaps most important, has been the opportunity to use a gray passport or a service passport to provide visa ease for abroad. We've been doing the Asian press incentives all the time. At the same time, we do technical services and publish books and pamphlets in 11 different languages that promote Turkey abroad. On the other hand, we invite members of the press who want to visit our country from different countries, and we make them Turkish programs. In the past three years, the Balkan Country Media Forum, the Turkish-speaking Media Forum, the Arab and African Media Forum. My dear friends, we also have many services as support services. I won't say too much. In order to strengthen local media, perhaps, we should also consider the activities of our Press Administrator. Last year, the local media in particular received 250 million liras worth of advertising and advertising. This year, again, we're increasing the official ad schedule, which is valid from February, and we think the local media will be able to make more use of it. Radio Television Supreme Council passed the law about two years ago. Now, we said we'd be doing the frequency tenders in two years. All our legal preparations are over. Hopefully in March or April, we'll be ready at the starting point for the frequency tenders. Thus, despite its release in 1994, the new law, which we made today, based on the principles of the European Union's Media Directions, has also brought great advantages to radio and television broadcasting in Turkey, while in the past 20 years no longer functioning. No doubt we can't ignore the Internet media when we call it "the media." Because today, social media, facebook and Twitter, a lot of news sites we call news portals are being hacked and monitored from the newspaper more than from the printed press. Studies have been launched to include our friends who work here as well as the Press Law. There was a conflict at one or two points, and it was resolved. Hopefully, in the next few months, we'll be able to get our Internet media law out with your support. At the end of my words, again, I congratulate our working journalist friends today. I think their terms, their futures will be better, and I pay my respects to all of them. We have many friends who lost their lives as a member of the press, and I ask God's mercy and salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0009par0095	Thank you, Mr. Arinc. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a commitment to our lawmakers who have entered the system, according to the Civil Code 60. Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0010par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm celebrating Turkish Government Day and Active Journalists Day. There have been significant developments in recent weeks in the scourge of terror that has affected the state and the nation's life very badly. For some time, the government has been trying to make the terrorist organization innocent, the terrorist leader in Imralı look human, the ministers claiming that the terrorist leader was abdicated, the fasting, the people who said Iran had planned the actions, Israel. However, we know that the baby killer in Imra is a psychopath who says, "Let's kill, let's be authority. I have won the war with God, I am a half-god. I am a prophet." We also doubt the state's state of mind with a psychopath like that, and we're able to monitor what's going on in the newspapers. I would like to invite the government to enlighten and inform the Turkish Grand National Assembly on these developments. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0011par0105	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0012par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP's government is unable to discuss the country's problems from meeting with Ocalan. As with all segments, the problems of journalists, farmers, florists, peasants await solutions. In this sense, the problems of florists also require solutions. There is a right relationship between flower and democracy and women's rights. A man holding a flower is not a bigot, and a politician opening ideas like flowers is not a fanatic. Today, the flower industry faces great challenges. About 400,000 citizens in the flower industry eat bread. The flower is a meta that is difficult to hide, which should be consumed soon. The support of this sector is extremely important. 18 per cent of the VAT sector in the flower industry kills, VAT must be removed in the flowering sector. The flower shop must be saved from pirate flower sales for support. I invite everyone to support flowering, buy flowers, and stay like a flower. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0013par0114	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0014par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, celebrate World Workers' Journalists' Day, express our wish to resolve the problems of all media employees as soon as possible. In addition, because of the 167th anniversary of agricultural education in Turkey, we celebrate this day, many days, as well as the precious professors and workers in the agricultural community who have been training all the workers who have been serving Turkish agriculture, especially the poor agricultural engineers for almost two centuries. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0015par0121	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0016par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to express that journalism is one of the most beautiful, exciting, difficult and honorable professions in the world. In today's age of knowledge, press workers who perform public service under difficult circumstances have, as in the past, a very important place today. In the media sector, which is a profession of sacrifice, especially the dedication of local publications is admirable. The journalist's right to inform the public, ranked first among his main duties, is also equivalent to the right of a citizen to get the right to accurate information. The obstruction of journalists is an obstruction of the citizen's right to information. And I think it's imperative that our fellow journalists still in prison, who are still in prison, should be brought to an immediate conclusion as to their lawsuits, which are now pushing the limits of their imprisonment. The world's neutral politicians now call Turkey a huge prison for journalists. I want to make it very clear that Turkey does not deserve such a title that is difficult to erase. I hope that those who cause this will quickly choose the path of mind and democracy. On this occasion, all of our press workers, including our radio, magazines, the Internet, newspapers and televisions, celebrate Working Journalists Day, and I wish them success in their work. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0017par0132	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0018par0135	Thank you, Mayor. For years, the sculptures that the Istanbulians have been accustomed to seeing have not been found in the 2010 European Capital of Culture, the 2012 Sports Capital, Istanbul, or have not been given the necessary importance of these important works of art, no maintenance and repairs. In front of the Lütfi Kırdar Convention Center, in front of İşlar Kurdıköy, Rahmi Aksungurın Maçkayya, Ayşe Erkmenin Beyoğlu Tülül, Meric Zezal's Üçüdar. What's the reason for the removal of the statues? Who ordered you to remove it? Where are these statues now? The culture of a city is not measured by how large a mall was built in that city or by what famous band is performing. To have the past and the modern, cultural heritage, the symbols in public spaces, the culture of a city...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0019par0140	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0020par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day was the anniversary of the arrest of journalist Metin Gökpe (journalist Metin Gökpe) when he was in office and was lynched by police. I reminisce about him once again. For this reason and because of the conditions of journalists in Turkey, it is unfortunately not possible to say good things on Laboring Journalists' Day. Especially in this country, when we think about the existence of journalists who have been subjected to all kinds of pressure and threats because they've been doing their actual work, they've been researching, asking, and questioning, and trying to silence them, the image of shame illustrates the meaning of this important day. Our biggest wish is Turkey, where we can celebrate Working Journalists' Day properly. I send my regards to Mustafa Balbay, Tuncay Özkan, Deniz Yıldırım and all the other arrested journalists, celebrating the day of all press workers who are trying to do their jobs under any pressure, trying to get to the truth and pass on the job without giving up its requirements. And I respect all the journalists who died for it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0021par0148	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0022par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. On the long-lost agricultural support premiums and frozen loans, our glorious farmers are in debt due to their back-up payments. You are now in debt to the farmers, whom you have long held back. Are these debts to be seen as being erased during the next election period, and after the election, our farmers will still be in debt? In 2012, the 1 ton of support in corn was reduced to 675 kilos this year. Wheat dropped from 600 kilos to 450 kilos, cotton dropped from 550 kilos to 490 kilos. The product is more than that, but that's the limit of support. Why are these boundaries falling? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0023par0155	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0024par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Until yesterday, the press members who were taken away from their freedom to think and write with unsolved murders and assassinations are unfortunately held between four walls in prisons today. Because of the threats, pressures, and what he wrote and what he said, the trials, arrests, and similar sanctions continue during this period of power, unfortunately. I remember Mr. Ugur Mumcu, Metin Göktepe, Ahmet Taner Barrack, Cetin Emeç, Abdi Silky, Hrant Dink, and other valued members of the press who lost their lives in the name of freedom and democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0025par0162	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0026par0165	Sir, I'm also celebrating World Workers' Journalists' Day, especially Mr. Balbay and Tuncay Özkan. And also, I wish all our executives success today. Mr. President - Mr. Deputy Prime Minister -- the ads distributed to local newspapers by the Press Ads Agency are very old, and since the law of the Press Administration Agency is very old, especially in Istanbul, which is formerly based on Babıali journalism, but there are 5,000, 10,000, 15,000 newspapers in new districts -- need to be given according to the circulation. There is injustice here, especially in this way the Law on the Press Agency must be changed. I'd like to say that one more time.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0025par0167	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0027par0170	Mr. President, due to heavy snow in Giresun's villages, the roads are closed to transport, the electricity is out. Our citizens are delivering their troubles to me. In particular, 19 of our workers are trapped in the Dereli district of Kalbkaya, the road is blocked, there is no electricity, there is a shortage of fuel and food. The company, which is in charge of electricity distribution, says it will have to wait ten more days for our citizens, who have not had electricity for four days. In recent years, the same problems have occurred, and I've made several motions to ask questions about the matter. The AKP Deputy Leader Giresun even said he would tell the Prime Minister to resolve the problem. In Giresun, it is important to show the extent of the problem. I leave it to the public to ignore the problem that even the ruling party's officials can't solve. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0025par0172	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Belen, I don't think there's a Mr. Belen. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0028par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the Day of Journalists Who Worked on January 10th, all of our journalists who served in our written and visual media. I wish you continued your successful work. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0029par0179	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0030par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, because of this year's winter conditions, we're really in the province of Tucson, neighbouring provinces; Bingol, Erzurum, Erzincan, from all sides -- the roads are too closed, there's more than two meters of snow. I'm afraid we're not getting the necessary fuel assistance here. Instead of gathering his family and camping in Africa, he must send an extraordinary grant to provide for them first. Again, citizens are calling us animals, of course, because it's covered in snow -- they're written in barley. I asked for 25,000 tons of barley. He says, "Come and get 700,800 kilograms of barley." The citizen says, "How can I take a truck and get it from Malatya?" I mean, the government should extend its hand to these citizens living under particularly difficult circumstances.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0031par0186	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0032par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. As I begin my words, three Kurdish women were executed by an assassination in Paris, and I would like to express that we are condemning the assassination with hatred, that the French government must expose the incident and that the fog veil over the incident must be removed immediately. It is also celebrated as the Festival of Workers' Journalists since 1961. Since this law was passed, freedom of expression and press in Turkey has always been under threat. On the 52nd anniversary of the adoption of the law, for more than 70 journalists, without question, Turkey was the world's largest prison. The Parliament must do its duty to address issues in front of freedom of expression and press. I'm celebrating the day of all the journalists, and I want to express my wish for success. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0033par0194	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Mr. Yellowhead... no. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0034par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating World Journalists Day. We celebrate with the bitterness of being the country with the most arrested journalists in the world, but with a wear-out increase, journalists are getting a little bit of good news today at the suggestion of all groups. I'm just saying, I hope it happens. But the journalist sector, the press sector, is the sector where the fugitive is the most missing. It's not just going to be enough to organize the sector at a rate of wearout, not enough to solve the problems of journalists. The sector must be monitored and monitored regularly. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security in particular must observe this. I think there should be a different arrangement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0035par0201	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0036par0204	Mr. President, I'm celebrating the working day of our local and national press community, which is trying to carry out the journalism mission at the expense of their lives. I ask God's mercy to the press who lost their lives on their mission. And I wish our press workers, who are the cornerstones of the press industry, a peaceful, happy, successful future with their families.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0035par0206	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0037par0209	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to thank the authorities for the step in returning the journalist's sense of weariness as we know it. I hope this will be possible soon, but what I really want to say -- Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has left the General Assembly Hall -- is that I would like to bring to the attention of the ruling party MPs: Mr. Deputy Prime Minister does not have to watch the situation of journalists with me, crying with others who are in great distress. There is an offer made for the full implementation of Law 212. It's about him being taken into account and our fellow lawmakers taking care of it, that's the solution. I'd like to get the attention of our friends on this, and I'd like to call on the government, including the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0038par0213	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Dear Ulupınar...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0039par0216	Mr. President, thank you. Last Monday, an incident took place at our Zonguldak January Kozlu. As we all know, nine of our brothers were exposed. The funerals of five of them were reached, we buried them, and they continued to search for three of them, and one of our brothers was brought out wounded; he is not in danger -- thankfully -- he is in good condition. We were in our district as district lawmakers. Our Minister of Energy, our Minister of Labor, has arrived in our area. Forensics, administrative investigations, technical investigations are under way. If anyone has any faults or negligence, whichever person, the institution, has committed this flaw, I hope he will pay for it. I hope this is the last time. I pray for God's mercy to all of our miners who have lost their lives, and for patience and condolences to their grieving relatives, and for our wounded brother's immediate healing. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0040par0220	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0041par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. I too celebrate World Journalists Day, wish all our fellow journalists well. I'd like to make a statement here that this information is not true about our congressman, who has just taken a statement about the Tunceli (Tunceli) and stated that there is no fuel. We all know the geographical conditions in Tunisia are difficult, but I would like to state here that the promise of not being able to serve because of fuel, that the roads cannot be opened is not true. The information we received from the County Special Administration is that 3 million dollars were deposited in the County Special Administration account on Friday. There's no such thing. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0042par0227	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0043par0229	I'll do the talking for you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0042par0230	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0043par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating World Journalists Day. I wish the freedom of journalists who have been deprived of their freedom only because of their true journalism, and those who have lost their lives and who have been killed by the vile assassinations just because they were true journalists, especially Uður Mumcu, İlhan Sovereign Darendelioğlu, İsmail's Real Word, and I remember them with respect and mercy. On this occasion, I would also like to ask that journalists be reinstated in memory of today's earlier, in 2008, when they were reinstated. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0044par0236	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Finally, I promise Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0045par0239	Mr. President, what's the status of the police officer Nadir Özgen, who was kidnapped in Van Çatak district on 9 September 2011? Is there a public servant and police officer in the mountains with Nadir Özgen, east and southeast? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0046par0242	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Judicial workers who serve as bailiffs / servants in the central and courthouses of the Ministry of Justice are part of the underlying service class in Article 36 (VIII) on the subsidiary of the Classed Classes of State Officers Act No. 657. Given the intensive working conditions in the ministry's central and judicial services, work volumes, work stress and work hours, it would be evident that the 657 Law on State Officers' Law, adopted in 14/07/65, is far from meeting the needs of the staff classes today, causing the irreparability of institution personnel/imposed and inadequate. Although the relevant legislation lists the duties of the bailiff/manager, the work density, lack of staff, and the reasons for the work are justified, the bailiff/services are employed by the administration outside of their duties. The bailiffs have even served as a dispatcher on the necessary occasions by providing the order and quiet of the courtroom, by providing the cleaning, security and coordination during the trial. Due to the fact that most of the labour burdens of the judicial service are being loaded alone but are in the class of auxiliary services as staff classes and autonomy rights, most of them are not able to ascend to higher levels of higher education (including 4 years), they cannot receive additional indicators, they are underpaid, and the situation leads to irreparable financial/manageable losses. The bailiffs/servists, who have suffered major financial losses in their salary calculations due to the participation of staff titles in the auxiliary service class, can only switch to the servants' staff when they want to move to other institutions. Given the work density and services of the courthouse agencies, the job descriptions of bailiffs/services must be redacted and included in the staff class's general administrative service class. In view of the provisions of regulations and regulations governing the issue under the Law of State Officers No. 657, it is illegal for bailiffs and servants to be employed in a series of arbitrary and demanding tasks, although they do not have their own duties. According to Article 18 of the Constitution, "the ban on power" and the regulations under which its duties and powers are passed in the pencil legislation, it lacks legal basis, and similar practices must be terminated. The services of bailiff/services who serve in the judicial departments are the work of an officer who is in a class of general administrative services. The bailiff/hygienic staff must be removed from its auxiliary service class, and must be included in the general administrative services class under EU harmonisation laws. The Ministry of Justice in 2007, 2008 and 2009 has not yet done any work on it, even though the Ministry of Bureau Laborers' Union and the Ministry's mutually-signed minutes have included the provision of the bailiffs to be transferred to the class of general administration services. In order to determine the issues of the bailiffs and to address these problems, we respectfully submit that the 98th Article of our Constitution, under the Articles 104 and 105 of our Civil Code, shall be established and investigated in all dimensions of the matter. [[40s.]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 3) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 4) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] 6) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 22) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 27) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The AKP's power and the health and security of workers are at risk. The government's incentive to subcontract staff labor and condemn workers for very low wages is destroying business security. In 2011 alone, the deaths of workers increased by 60 per cent compared to the 2011 Istanbul Labor Health and Business Safety Assembly, which includes occupational organisations, workers, academics, journalists and business inspectors, including the DİSK, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures (TMMOB) and the Turkish Medical Association (TTTB). In 2011, the AKP claimed the deaths were reduced by 17 per cent as a result of business accidents. According to the Istanbul Labor Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, 53 of our workers were killed in December 2011, in October 2011. In 2011, 79 people were killed in the mines and 117 injured in the workforce. In our country, 50 workers have died in the last 10 years because they worked in the jean-bolting business. Reports of Istanbul's Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly show that business accidents in Turkey have turned into "homicide'. Reports published every month show that workers in Turkey do not work in a healthy and secure environment. According to the report, 238 workers died in the first eight months of 2010, while the number of workers died in the first eight months of 2011 was 376. The situation in the world, however, is estimated to be a business accident every day among workers in the world's labour market. 2.3 million people lose their lives each year due to occupational accidents and occupational illness. According to the report, there have been more than 744,000 work accidents in the last decade, and over 10,000 workers have died in those accidents. The AKP rules out workers' safety. The unsecured worker is exploited by the employer, running unsecuredly as insecurely as it is. The AKP government, whose main policy is subcontractorship, is responsible for increased labour deaths. In order to determine all the causes of business accidents and the deaths of workers and to address these problems, we respectfully submit that the 98th Article of our Constitution shall be established under the Article 104 and 105 of our Interior Charter. [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] 5) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 22) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 23 October 2011 and 9 November 2011, Van was subjected to a cataclysmic disaster, causing loss of life and property, social life in the city, economic life has come to a standstill, and our citizens have had to face great challenges. Also in the city's education life, there has been a major cut, and before the earthquake, students with many problems have been suspended from education in the city, many students have gone out of town as guest students, and the residents of the city have lost a crucial time because of their disaster and improprieties. In addition, it has been seen from the date of the earthquakes to this time that the state has neglected its duty to serve, especially the problem of coordination, which has attracted attention to public opinion that aid to the disaster area is sufficient, effective and permanent. The city's return to normal life, the start of social life, the continuation of economic activities, the continuation of education, the implementation of a comprehensive incentive policy, and the need for measures to stimulate economic life have been determined, and many proposals have been made by opposition parties. The principle of the constitution includes the obligation of the state to show solidarity with our citizens, to strengthen their social and physical resources, affected by natural disasters. For these reasons, the Constitution's 98th Civil Charter 104 and 105 are the reasons for determining problems in Van, determining the measures needed to resuscitate economic and social life. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] 4) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 20) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0047par0431	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0046par0432	Here you go, I promise you your place.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0047par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. There are two funerals in the village village, no electricity, we can't even charge our phones at the request of citizens who say that the roads of the village are closed, and the means of fighting the snow given to Tucson are too inadequate as of the highways and as of the State Administration. In fact, there are two funerals in the village of Mazgirt. I said here, when I said this, AKP MP Mustafa Atash said there was a grant in Turkey. I mean, if there's funding and the cars are enough, why don't these roads open? Let's go together, if he wants to. He's Cheezy, let's go together. Is the path of Tunceli really closed, or is it open? I mean, there's no point in rebutting us right now. Let's ask, let's go. People call us every day. It is our duty to address the problems of the citizen here. But unfortunately, this AKP...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0046par0437	Thank you, Mr. Young. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet at its meeting Thursday (January 10/01/2013), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 17/05/2012, the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey was given "the causes of the accidents in the mines, the conditions of the mine workers and the efforts to restructure the conditions of retirement in favour of them" by Samuel MP Haydar Akar and 23 MPs, on 17/05/2012. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, to be read in the presentations Thursday (10/01/2013/2013), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the proposal, MP Haydar Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0048par0452	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy to our fellow miners who lost their lives in Zonguldak Kozlu, and my condolences to their families and relatives. Again, today, we celebrate Working Journalists Day. And I wish that their efforts would not go to waste, and that they would see the proper dignity. In the fifth month of 17/05/2012. In the fifth month of 2012, I submitted a motion to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Article 98 of the Constitution, and it was a parliamentary research proposal for the problems of the mining sector and our fellow miners, related to the mine accidents, and on their working conditions, to regulate pension conditions after retirement. So why did I suddenly think of this in the fifth month of 2012, and then submitted such a research proposal? As you all know, I'm a member of the CSI Commission, and we're overseeing Turkey's Stone Coal, Turkey's Coal Company, as well as the ETUAS mines every year. Where do we do this inspection? We're auditing the Court reports on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So, what did these audits show in the Court's reports? If my friends from the AKP, the government, had read the Court's reports on this commission, they would have taken responsibility for themselves as I did, and we could have avoided accidents that said they were in the mining sector. Now, in this research proposal, there was a study of problems with privatisation, along with problems with our mines and mine workers. So, how does he privatize in the mining industry? It's being privatized in three ways. One of them is in a way we call "Rödevans". People don't know this very well, the redesign is that you have a field, and you give it to a third person in exchange for a production and you get a cut of the production and the revenue, that's redevance. And what's the second? The privatisation of labor, the service. We've been seeing this a lot lately. Where did we meet? We ran into each other at Kozlu. Where did we meet? We ran into each other in Karadon. Where did we meet? We've encountered it in no sadness, and we find it in a lot of government mining businesses. And what's the third? It's a new invention, and the third, with the businesses next to the mines, is mostly to transfer it as a total private with the thermal power plants. Now, what was the main purpose of these three privatisations, friends? It was to increase employment, to produce quality, efficiency, to reduce costs and to ensure job security. So, these actions, these privatisations, do they match? When we examine, for example, the employment in the mine, which was 20,000 in the 2000s, fell to 11,000 during your administration today. So it can be thought of not as a work for employment, but as a work that allows for poverty, poverty, and unemployment, or proliferation of unemployment. Well, let's say he doesn't create jobs. So, does it bring technology into the mines, or does it increase production? No. Once again, when we examine the Court reports, we see that technology is not coming. We see that the current institution, the institution they hire, has hired vehicles to do the mining work without investing at all. Does it increase production? No, it doesn't. Again, the point of production in the 2000s is now half-sized, and we see together that a fully imported mining regime is being organised. Has the revenue of workers in the mining sector increased with these privatisations? We're calling it a big no again. With privatisation, more than half of the people working in the mining sector started working for minimum wage. Again, in the 2000s, you sentenced people to hunger by reducing the minimum wage of an hour, which was $5.44, to $2.81 during your administration today. So, did our mining workers, along with privatisation, provide job safety and occupational health? He's a big no. So, now that we've counted, does it increase employment? No. Is it increasing efficiency or increasing production? No. Is he renovating technology? No, no, no, no, no, Well, does it keep you safe? And We see that it does not provide for him. Also in business accidents, Turkey is the third in the world, Europe is the first in Europe; we are the first in European business accidents. In this area, as in many areas, during your administration, business accidents have increased and you've set a record. Congratulations, you've become the European 1st and 3rd World in business accidents! Now, I would like to give examples of these business accidents based on a few examples, but I would also like to point out that when you come to this bench, you make wishes and wishes, and God will never show us these accidents again. You say, "No earthquakes, no floods." But three days later, you forget them, and you do nothing. We quickly forgot about Karadon. Does anyone remember Karadon? We quickly forgot Don't be sad. Do any of you remember? We quickly forgot about the Bedouins, the Afshin-Elbistan. When will we forget Kozlu? In a few days, we will forget or forget Kozlu. Do you know what happened in Afshin-Elbistan, in the desertlores? What had happened? On February 6, 2011 and February 10, 2011, there were two landslides, 11 of our workers were lost, 9 of them still in the ground. So, what was it here? Again, I've brought the books of the Court, and I can give you the page one by one. ODTÜ, who you refer to as a terrorist, called the Prime Minister a terrorist, is not being trained. He called it ODTÜ, the company's adviser, ODTÜ, said that an inevitable accident could happen here very soon, it would have to be taken care of. But what did they do? They didn't take any precautions, and they kept working. In the end, 11 of our workers died there. And do you know who this company is? That's what I want to tell you. You know, your famous September 12th referendum, it's a media organization that does your propaganda on TV screens for days and pages. Friends, if you're wondering, again, I can give you this media organization, and now, even now, with experts and experts provided by your fellow rectors, the ODTÜ is being tried to be convicted. Again, in Zonguldak Karadon, on May 17, 2010 -- as if Kozlu had no experience in mining, no experience in mining, and the most dangerous business of mining -- the gallery is being given to a construction company. Again, in the Court reports -- I brought him to you -- in 2009, he says: "If there is no precaution, there will be a huge accident. We are losing 30 workers in Karadon. I'm coming to Kozlu. Look how much it resembles Kozlu Karadon. Kozluda has been warned many times in the Court reports -- our general president has explained it, and now the press has explained it. Again, the job of opening a gallery to a construction company, which has been delayed and repeatedly warned, has been taken to Kozlu, and today, eight of our fellow miners have lost their lives, just as in Karadon. Now, once again, we see how cheap human life is, how worthless human life is in exchange for money. Although the firm has the authority to annul its contract, which has not been determined by TTK, the contract has not been annulled, and today, a business accident has occurred in Kozlu. The same statements are available in the 2011 Court's Report for the Employment of Sadness. I'm speaking to government officials, and I'm speaking to my friends, the AKP MP, to make sure there's no business accident there tomorrow and that our fellow miners don't die. There's the same report there, the same gallery opening, and there's a construction company out there. The whole world knows how important experience, experience, and security are in mining, but Turkey just can't find out. Now, I ask you, I also want to address the Minister of Energy here, friends, the Minister of Energy has gone and said there: "Everyone will know their responsibility and the responsible will answer." Mr. Energy Minister, you became Minister of Energy in 2009, and after becoming Minister of Energy in 2009, Karadon, whom we spoke about, Karadon, won't be upset, Afghanistan and Kozlu were in your phases, and all four of them had similar properties. So why didn't you take any precautions? Now, I warn you from here: if the same thing happens to us in the same way, I hope to God it doesn't happen to you. I wish you'd take precautions there already. My dear friends, my fellow lawmakers, it is not your duty to come here and be the attorney of the privatized institutions. I think it's your job, just like us, to tell them what's missing, to tell them what's wrong with them, to try to fix them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't need to talk right now. Due to these negativitys, I respectfully welcome you all to the establishment of the Parliamental research commission to determine and propose solutions to the mining sector.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0049par0477	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Against you, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0050par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is the Day of the World Workers' Journalists. As usual, false celebrations have been made, showing off to journalists whose rights to wear out have never been granted. From here, from the House, especially to all the journalists who are under arrest, to all the journalists who have been arrested for performing their true duties: I say that this tyrant order will one day change, and I believe that you will be free. Again, at a time when we were discussing peace in Turkey, discussing the solution, strengthening hope, and all of Turkey's public interests, three Kurdish women who were at the Kurdish Information Bureau in Paris were subjected to a brutal assassination last night, Sakina Caniz, Fidan Doğan, Leyla Tellez. We condemn it with hatred. We say we're sorry for the head of all Kurds and friends, and we believe that every time we talk about peace, those who want to overcome these deep provocations, whether their roots are in or out, will surely come in a strong way. At the same time, we hear that it is the provocations of those who do not want democracy, law, human rights, freedoms to be established in Turkey and those who do not want to live together in Turkey. We say the French government is responsible for bringing those responsible to justice as soon as possible. In the same way, in Turkey, we feel that the government's spokesman should seriously focus on this situation instead of their ridiculous statements. We're also recommending that they give up deflections on things they don't know about. We say that such important matters require a bit of intimacy, a little bit of seriousness, and that we need to go over it. We are not going to let this go, we are strong enough to find out who's responsible, and we are publicly declaring that we are going to shed light on it all over the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're going to discuss the problems of the miners here, set up a research commission. We actually established this commission, you know, in 2010-2011, it worked. Four parties in the House. I was a member of this commission. I think about the mine, especially... what happened at that time in the Karadon accident and what happened behind it in Afshin-Elbistan, which still hasn't been removed from the ground, and that's our shame... and what happened today at Kozlu. Here we have prepared a report as the Mining Research Commission on all the problems of our workers living under very difficult conditions, in this difficult sector, in these difficult conditions, in the minimum wage, and in very difficult conditions, and in a very serious work and very serious suggestions. In those days, we saw how the workers who were in a cave-in in Chile were connected to the rescue rooms and were rescued after a busy study. We've seen in the mines that we've been looking at, and we've seen that when we've been down 600 meters in the elevator, we've seen in the tunnels for miles how difficult it is to get the mine out through those tunnels, and we've seen the sizes of the places that were built by insurance, security, the mines in Turkey, the subcontractorial works, we've seen what a terrifying example of irresponsibleness. In fact, the mine murders have only one name: an off-the-record murder is a work accident in the mines. If those tunnels can't be installed regularly, if they can't be secured, if they can't be secured from the working worker's top light to his suit, if the electrical cables installed don't respond safely to the need, if they're added together, if the tools to measure the methane gas that was removed on those tracks are not working, if these kinds of murders are happening, and if they're happening all the time, and they're constantly occupying Turkey's agenda, then there's a new study, a new situation for the Assembly to find. So our work as the Mining Research Commission was left on the shelves in thick books. Yes, he investigates research commissions, he listens to all the experts, he listens to all the relevant parts, he does great research, he puts in his findings, he brings them in, he delivers them to the Speaker, he takes a souvenir photo, and then he takes a report in the commission reports. What's the Clave doing after that? He's not doing anything. Congress isn't doing what it's supposed to do. The Civil Code does not say how to make such reports. Parliament's report doesn't bind the House. A consultation, a consultation, a source of reference, and how sad is it that after we have prepared this report, what should we do to make it necessary for the Parliament? There was a conclusion in the Research Commission: Let's submit this Mining Research Report with a petition to the Turkish Parliament's Wishing Commission, let Parliament process it in this way, and let's be its followers. Now, I'm here for this research motion -- it's very vital -- to the end, we support it as a group. But what we're saying is, how are we going to do what we're supposed to do with this report? Because we did research in Zonguldak. There was research in those quarryes and coal mines. He has all his findings, it's in the Court's reports, they've come to the House. Have you seen which of these have been processed, and the legal sanctions of those responsible? You can't. With fiscal pardons, there's no value, no value, no job security, no job insurance, no healthy retirement system, no value for a person's life in a country where people are pardoned for such accidents, employers, people who want to make a quick profit. Well, then, there's something we have to do, folks: we work for the Internal Charter Commission. I'm going to recommend that these research reports be carried out by Parliament. I'm on this commission on behalf of our group. All parties, including the main opposition, have a responsibility in parliament to make these reports work. Come on, let's figure this out together. I'm saying that if we solve this problem together, we'll find a solution, and I respect you all.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0051par0488	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0052par0492	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the National Movement Party Group on the motion to investigate mining. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Our mines are the most important natural resources that have ever been given to our country. Our mines contribute greatly to the country's economy and to our local people. We need to appreciate this kind of wealth very well and act on it as a country. These riches are no one's own existence, these are our nation's very own assets, its very own resources, but we see today, unfortunately, our resources are melting and disappearing with the wrong energy policies. The last example of this is in the province of Kahramanmarash. The largest coal basin in Kahramanmarash is sold and privatized to the United Arab Emirates. Turkey and the United Arab Emirates signed a co-operation agreement on mining lignite coals in the Afshin-Elbistan region and producing electricity. A new plant will be built between Afşin-Elbia by the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources who signed the co-operation agreement on behalf of Turkey. Didn't our government have the power to implement this technology, did it need to be privatized? A new thermal plant in this region will also make life difficult in Afshin and Elbistan, making Kahramanmarash uninhabitable. There's already been a great deal of air pollution in our province. The harmful gases left in the air from the Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant chimneys are polluting the air and harming everyone, especially chronic diseases. The government is not working on this issue. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we have never and never opposed production and employment, against privatisation and unhealthy investments during this government period. The Kahramanmarash Afşin Elbistan Termik plant has already been registered in the audits for causing air pollution in the region. It's proven by criminal procedures that the plant contaminated the air. The Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant has caused air pollution, but unfortunately, no measures have been taken so far. As a country, we need to focus on energy-generating types of energy that won't harm human health. Studies on renewable energy must be increased. The new plants will make Kahramanmarash uninhabitable. Therefore, the agreements that have been made must be reconsidered. During the current ruling period, many investments, which provide income and employment, have unfortunately been sold. Bridges, factories, ports and mines and coal basins have fallen into the hands of strangers. In the same way, it is possible to add our sugar factory in Kahramanmarash Elbistan. The Elbia Sugar Factory is also within the scope of privatisation, and the workers, our workers, our staff, our people who have worked there for years are now restless, unable to see tomorrow. Hospitals and schools will also be private in the coming days. Unnecessary privatisations are unfair to this country and to these beautiful people. They're handing out our national institutions one by one, alienating Turkey and Kahramanmarash. We are completely opposed to this privatisation at the Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant. The personnel who work here are uncertain. The employees must be nervous. We ask the government to take every precaution for the workers. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our Kahramanmarash province is also a victim of mining accidents, which has not been compensated. During the cave-in on 10 February 2011 in the Desertos coal basin, providing coal to the Afşin-Elbistan thermal plant, nine of our miners, unfortunately, were killed under a cave-in. The funerals of nine of our fallen miners have not yet been removed, even after a long time has passed over the heromarash, and the incident that has upset all of Turkey. The families of our miners patiently and hopefully await the exhumation of the funerals of their relatives. It's amazing that in our world, where science and technology are moving at almost a stunning rate, our nine mining martyrs have never been removed from the bottom of the cave-in. Why can't our miners be removed from the cave-in, and there's a lack of technology? Or is the cost of that being calculated? When are you going to hand over our martyr miners to their families? If you can't dig it up, let's build a mausoleum. Unfortunately, there's no one to answer, no one to answer, no one to answer. Business accidents often occur in mining, as in many businesses in our country. The last mining accident in our country occurred in Zonguldak Kozlu, and it upsets us very much. Eight lives have been lost in this mining accident, suffering for the region and for the country. Again, hearts burned, many families orphaned again, and our loss and suffering is great. We wish God's mercy to our miners who have lost their lives, and to their families who have suffered, our patience and our condolences again. In the wake of the disaster in Kozlu, the first statements indicate that there was also negligence in the accident, as in many mining accidents in our country. It is considered purely by chance that the disaster caused greater suffering. The number of drillings that should have been 14 in Kozlu is also recorded as 7. The lack of control is obvious. In the mine, the cave-in was caused by a sudden burst of methane gas. At Kozlu, the mine accident occurred in 2010, and 30 workers were killed in that accident. This accident has almost failed all work done in our country on business security. After the mining accident in Kozlu, the rules for safety of the work began to be re-examined in our country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, long working hours, low wages, unhealthy and insecure working conditions increase business accidents in our country. In particular, business accidents occur in Istanbul, Marseilles, Zonguldak, İzmir, Ankara, Adana, Eskişehir, Tekirdağ, Malatya, Bursa, Kolya, and Kahramanmarash. Business accidents in our country often occur in mining, shipyards, construction, energy, metal, cement, seasonal agriculture, textiles and leather businesses. Business accidents continue, especially in mines, due to simple measures that cannot be taken in our country. During these accidents, 77 people were killed and 117 others were injured. The business accidents in our country in the mining sector are four and a half to five times the number of European countries, I regret to say. Non-union working conditions are also considered the biggest reason for accidents. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers in the mining sector, which contributes substantially to Turkey's economy, must be taken into account measures on the production of modern standards, especially in the working conditions. The work that will be done in this direction will reduce the dents in the mines and prevent fatal accidents. I salute your grand delegation, wishing for the end of mining accidents in our country.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0053par0508	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0512	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. Today I am also celebrating the Day of Workers' Journalists. The Republican People's Party has a request today to bring a motion to the Parliament to investigate its problems, to bring it to the agenda and to create the agenda of today's Parliamentary agenda, as you know, of the accidents that took place in the mine mines, the working conditions and pension conditions in favour of them, because we're going to have to continue to run a law on it, and we need to bring it to the Parliament today's agenda to investigate its problems. Of course, we ask God's mercy for the people who died in the mining accident in Zonguldak Kozlu last week, and we offer our condolences to their families. Three dead bodies have not yet been recovered, but according to the information our governor has given us, they will be reached within a day or two. These mine accidents can happen not only in Turkey, but also in all the developed countries in the world; these accidents can happen, of course, our biggest wish, to minimize them, to destroy them, but unfortunately, where there is a human being, there is a flaw, there is a mistake, there is a mistake, and that could be one of them. This explosion of methane isn't something that happens from today to tomorrow, so it's a gas that happens all the time in the past... in a hundred years, in 200 years. As a result of the explosion of this gas, as a reaction to the coal mine -- in this accident last week -- the explosion of about 1,500 tons of coal and the loss of oxygen in its atmosphere -- unfortunately, our workers' lives were over 630 metres below the ground. Of course there's a flaw here, there's a flaw... Until the end of this, administratively, technically, legally. Right after the accident, our ministers, Mr. Faruk Çelik Bey and Minister of Energy Taner Yıldız Bey went to the scene and did all the research.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0055par0516	They always leave after the accident, Mr. Recep. What did you do there?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0517	Whoever has a flaw -- it could be the fault of the firm there, it could be the defect of the authority that controls it, it could be the defect of the TKIEST -- but whoever has a flaw in it, it's all our ministers and we're here to guarantee that it'll all go to the end. Nothing's covered up like it's covered up.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0055par0518	You don't cover anything up!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0519	From now on, our wish is that there are no such accidents in our country, no accidents. But how can we prevent it, prevent it? If Haydar Akar Bey has such a suggestion, let him bring it as a legal arrangement, where we say it can be done, it can be legalized, if it's really acceptable.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0056par0520	Come on, sign it, sign it.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0057par0521	Who died in a lie?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0522	We'll sign it, sir, and there's no problem with that, we're behind anything that can be done.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0056par0523	Come sign it, it's not supposed to be like that. Come sign it.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0524	Don't let this motion of research be perceived as being that we're dealing with the miners' problems, that we're not seeing the problems here. We just can't participate because of the international agreement and the unfinished law on today's agenda.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0056par0525	Do you sign?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0526	But all the work in the research motion is done by our power.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0058par0527	Nothing's been done, you're responsible for the deaths.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0528	I'm saying that with this kind of research proposal, things that can be done, things that can be done, can be done, can be done, can be done, can be done, can be done, can be done by the legal arrangement, and will be replaced by our government, as well as by our party.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0058par0529	You're responsible for the deaths in the mines.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0054par0530	I give you all my regards, my love, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0059par0532	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0060par0533	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0059par0534	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0061par0536	Mr. President, the motion that I've made says that everything in it has been done, Mr. Recep. Furthermore, if you have a law proposal, if you have a suggestion, this law demands that we bring in our proposal and proposal. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0059par0537	You did, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0061par0538	I want to make a statement. I'd like to explain our proposals.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit01spe0059par0539	You said you had a law proposition. There's no bullying for that, you've made a statement, you've made a proposal, it's on the record. I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't agree, there's not enough decision-making, I'm taking ten minutes off.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit02spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions are moving on to the section. We will continue where we left off from the 1st place of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Proposal for Amendments and Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Government of Military Education Business Association. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will continue our talks with Justice and Development Party Group Chairman Nurettin Canikli, National Movement Party MP Mehmet Shandır and İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and 3 MPs; Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and the Plan and Budget Commission Report for Changes in Some Laws. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the past session, talks were completed on part 2 of the bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Charter. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions for new matter violations before entering matter. As you know, the proposed bill or proposal is the sentence of the fourth clause of the Article 87 (87) of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has joined with the absolute majority. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following item be added to the 370 Numbered Bill of Legislature, which is currently in session as the 9th Amendment. "The second joke of Article 9 - 5510 of Article 40 is about to arrive after the 15th bell; "Works/Business: at workplaces under Law 5953. Insurers in the scope: persons working under the 13/6/1952 Act of 5953, and those employed in public institutions while being a press card owner, according to press card regulations, while working on their professions in these institutions. (x) 370 S. The Numbered Basmaz 8/1/2013 was added to the 49th Union Charter. Business/Business: Turkish Radio and Television Agency news service. Insurance Incorporated: According to the press card regulations, they are actually employees at the Turkish Radio Television Agency, provided they have a press card. Business/Business: Press and journalism workplaces Insurance Incorporated: People working in print and journalism workplaces under employee code 4857 It's 3 of the same substance. The phrase "and half the age of retirement will be reduced for no more than three years" has been changed into "and it will be reduced from the age of retirement for no more than five years" in its joke; In Article 81 (b) of Law 5510, the underbelly of Article 81 (b) has been changed to "1.5 points for the number of days to add to the 90 verb service, 2 points for the number of days to be added." İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Demir Steel Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0062par0049	Mr. President, we can't participate because we don't have a single majority.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0059par0050	Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the following item be added to the current Law Bill 370 rows. Minister of Labor and Social Security Article 9. The first joke (c) of Article 81 of Law 5510 has been changed in the following way. C) The price of short-term insurance arms is 2% of the prime earnings of the insured. The employer pays the full bonus. The Council of Ministers is authorized to reduce this rate to 1.5 per cent or increase it to 2.5 per cent." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0063par0060	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0064par0061	No, how the hell did that happen? Don't be so modest, he's smiling.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0059par0062	There's got to be 21. Twenty-one, sir. Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0065par0065	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0059par0066	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Cetin. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0065par0068	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, a subcommittee has been set up for better understanding and better preparation of the law, as it begins to meet with the Plan and Budget Commission on the 370 rows under discussion. I served on the subcommittee. During the mission, the motion for the Minister's signature on the matter violation was submitted on the subcommittee with the signature of Ahmet Arlen, Kars MP. Like this, again, in a moment, there was a motion that was perhaps to be discussed, and the removal of certain substances came to the subcommittee. In addition, in the subcommittee, we said that we would leave the commission because of AKP lawmakers' proposals for a torrential change, in a way that would turn this law into a bag of law, the Law on Unemployment 4447, including Law on Occupational Insurance, and Law on Health and Safety 6331 again. As a result, he was not accepted on the commission, and the top commission did not come back during the meeting, and is now presented with the Minister's signature. Dear friends, our Social Security Agency -- as the Minister says every time it takes a stand -- is not as solid as the social security institutions in other European countries or in modern countries. It covers one pensioner who works there, and now we have 1.8. Therefore, our resources are scarce. We're transferring funds from Treasury to Social Security, black hole, covering their gaps, etcetera. Now, the change in materials that are intended to be made here is directly true... the short-term insurance arm premiums are determined at 1 to 6.5 percent of the 81st Article (c) of Law 5510 (c) and are determined by the Council of Ministers according to the dangerous, toxic, unhealthy state of the working arm, the weight of working conditions and the degree of danger. Now, we're dealing with an offer where the ratio of this substance is fixed by holding the ratio of 6.5 to 1 to 2. I'm here to make this claim that employers use it, not the Social Security Agency. Obviously, there's another thing to be said here -- excuse me -- the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and his deputies are playing double, Mr. Secretary is playing triple. There are other talks here, other concessions are made in front of employers, and the rate is suddenly reduced. We're saying, we don't have money, we don't have resources. What's the motive? Reason: The employer doesn't pay the premium debts, we're court-martialed, we're sued, we can't collect. The fact that we can't collect means that we're hungry, that I can't do the job, that I can't do it. Dear friends, this country is our country. Social Security was established in this country as the institution to protect the truly vulnerable. Of course, we also have a new ministry, our family ministry, but the institution of social balances, social interests, the community needs protection, the unemployed, the young, the employees, to keep them together under the umbrella of the social state. Therefore, the social security agency's revenues are clear; the bonuses the workers pay -- and if the pension fund is now considered as an institution -- are the bonuses the pensioners will pay and the employers will pay for it. See, every MP who's been here for three days has said that he's been in his heart for the loss of eight workers in Kozlu's mining accident, whether he believes it or to the window, which is very clear who's talking to the window. Dear lawmakers, really, if employers take the necessary precautions at workplaces, the safety measures we set up with the law, accept labor health as a cost-effective element, or, as the Minister says here, they don't pay, we can't collect, we can't get some kind of amnesty, and the Social Insurance Agency probably has no problems with the actuary balance, and they may be more objective. I, therefore, once again say, Mr. Secretary, what happens when you bring so many radical changes in the field of social security in particular, listen to the sides, so did you do the actuarial work well? Have you calculated how much income will be lost by the company, as you reduce the 6.5 to 2.5? So when the changes come to the agenda here, you look at them, and you say, "Friends, we can't get out of business." Well, you gave up a million workers yesterday -- and you didn't take the slightest step to solve a problem of 13.5 million workers; I strongly advise you to try to find a solution to the bonus debt of those employers who cheat against the law, who don't pay the debt, who are honest and decent employers who are causing them to black out. Dear friends, look, the institution doesn't really know what it's doing. In universities, there are academics who have retired from insurance before, who have gone to school. Someone who wrote the letter -- I was going to ask you a question later, and now I'll tell you -- says, "Here's the article on Law 5335 that exempts the following, including the university professors. What did our institution do? He went to them -- we'll see them in the following items -- and he tried to apply his follow-up on those who didn't pay their debts to the professors at the university. They said, "There's immunity here, we're exempt." No, brother, we don't give exemption, we get the money. This is not an acceptable situation. Therefore, I ask you to vote against this clause, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0066par0078	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. On behalf of him, Mr. Aslanoglu. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0067par0081	Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commissioner; no commission is offered law in the budget, while the General Assembly has a budget -- I've been here for 11 years -- very rare. However, Mr. Secretary, you visited our Deputy Director of the Group, you said we had a few urgent matters. He's had a meeting, Mr. Commissioner. We've agreed on four terms. My friends have entered the subcommittee, and we've agreed on a four-point principle with the subcommittee, but bringing the items you've issued back here with Mr. Secretary's signature and bringing them back here with a motion is to shoot us in the back.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0068par0082	Not at all.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0067par0083	This doesn't fit in good faith or anything, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commissioner. If we agree on something, if we're supporting it with good intentions, if it's an emergency, it's a law during the budget, but if you're taking it out again, let's not bring it in, let's bring it in. But we see that you're trying to re-integrate the materials you removed in the subcommittee, with Mr. Secretary's signature. This is not a good faith rule -- Mr. Commissioner, I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you -- it's disregarding the Plan and Budget Commission, avoiding giving us information. I'm really here to inform both of you of my regrets. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0069par0087	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0070par0088	Mr. President, I want a personal word, too.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0071par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0069par0090	The statement... yes, please come in, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0070par0091	Mr. President, I'd like a word on my own behalf.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0069par0092	The Minister wants to talk, then. Mr. Steel, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0095	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made different assessments of what this provision has brought to your attention about substance abuse. I made a promise to make him clear, and that's number one.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0073par0096	Mr. Secretary, whatever he brings, you promised us.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0097	Second, our friends agreed on a 4-point extension of this arrangement sent to the subcommittee when we made an assessment of this bill in the Plan Budget Commission with political party groups. After 4 additional articles to this upper commission, the General Assembly also agreed that we would discuss between budgets. Immediately after the budget, a request came. We were in a hurry here because the legal problem facing both business and professional advisors and the urgency of the other articles of the law were positively approached because of the urgency of a few articles, but unfortunately we couldn't accomplish it. I'm not in the middle of questioning the reasons, the reasons for this, why this happened, but as a result, he has come to your presence. Now, this is a provision that comes before you in the Plan Budget Commission subcommittee, and this is an important arrangement. See, as Mr. Cetin put it, there are gaps in the SGK, there are steps taken to improve the system. So what do you do here that you keep the premiums on short-term insurance arms of 1 to 6.5? They ask a question. Yes, we're holding it at two, and we're giving the Council of Ministers the authority to take it down to 2.5, 1.5, and up to 2.5. Why are we holding it?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0074par0100	You may remove it if you have authorization to remove it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0101	First of all, since there's a chance to pay in 6.5 and 1 percent, there are so many legal cases that we're having so much difficulty putting this system into place that we're trying to get it into place because we're trying to move 6.5 percent to 1. Eliminating these conflicts, eliminating bureaucratic procedures, one.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0074par0103	Didn't you do 5335, isn't that your law? You don't know how to make a law...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0104	Secondly, we have the opportunity to combine monthly bonuses and service documents with an executive statement.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0074par0105	You're the one who made that law.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0106	Third, we'll give each employer one record number. Look, the people in the business, the people in the market, they know it very well, so we'll give every employer a single record number because of this arrangement. Sir, what does the SGK gain from this arrangement? The SGK earns 500 million liras. So there's no loss in the SGK, so it's not right to arrange it this way.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0074par0108	Then why did you do it in 5335?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0109	Excuse me, excuse me. So we're not after an arrangement to damage the SGK, to add to the existing deficits of the SGK...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0074par0111	You're in shock, jerk.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0112	But I'm also saying that we don't think it's right for hundreds of employers and hundreds of public employees to be brought to court with these regular jobs.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0074par0113	So you don't know how to make a law; here he is.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0114	In many countries, however, these short-term insurance arms are now being fixed. I have a long list of countries. Another issue -- of course, as you know -- is an arrangement that will facilitate the transition to the code NACE 6 in the European Union. So in terms of all institutions speaking the same language, this arrangement has to be done. That's why we insisted on the commission, but in principle, you said that the commission...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0075par0116	It hasn't been said.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0072par0117	No, sir, that's what the subcommittee said, he knows our friends and you said, let's not add to it. But in terms of the system, if you look at the income of the Social Security Agency, if you look at the integration of systems, it's a very appropriate arrangement. I'd like to express that in particular. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0076par0119	Thank you, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0077par0120	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0076par0121	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0077par0122	Mr. Secretary, if it's useful -- we've never said anything useful -- we'd light us up, bring us to the commission, or we'd make a joint motion before giving it to us, but if it's in the public interest, then I'd like to pass it on to you, since it's the only way to get information out of us.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0076par0123	Okay. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0078par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have just submitted a new clause with a motion that is not in the bill, but is not in accordance with whether the AKP has a one-sided majority in the Commission and whether it is in accordance with the 87th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Now, valued lawmakers, in fact, it's a serious matter to make the law. The laws are given as a bill or a proposal, they go to commissions, they debate the commissions, and then they come to the General Assembly, and the MPs need to know about it, but the law-making work with AKP has become illegal. The House is no longer serious. Now, the AKP, based on its own majority, brings in the laws they want here and gives them last-minute motions, pirated motions. They're even channeling so much of the government's quadrillions into private holdings, there are thousands of examples of them, and I can prove it here. Now, I've mentioned something about this law before, and I've told it to the bureaucrats. Now, friends, until 2003, homes in villages and small places were not subject to this insurance premium, and insurance was not subject to the statement at work. Later in 2003, a change of law was made, and then when a citizen builds a house in the village, they immediately go and put it on his head. Yehu, you didn't make a house, you didn't report it, you're going to pay this much bonus, you're going to pay a fine for this amount of irregularity. Since 155 citizens in Pertek district of Tunceli are not registered in the social security report, they're being paid 20,000, 30,000, 40,000 lira fines each, and a lot of insurance premiums. That's a sin. Is it possible to fool people like that? As a government, people like this need to make it easier for the village structures, or small towns, even if they're not in the village. Because there's no one there who knows the insurance laws. So it's got to be easy. Now the poor guy built a house there, then 40 grand, 50 grand, then a penalty for irregularity, then a Social Security bonus... What's going to happen, how are these people going to pay? And the insurance inspectors who go there take advantage of the citizens' ignorance, and they file a report on them, and then there's a real problem. In fact, there are houses built in villages, where people can build these houses with the help of their own followers, which can be arranged. I mean, they don't take anything from people who know the law, who do the right thing, but they're put under a heavy burden by people who are ignorant or ignorant. It's the government's job to find a cure for people like that. So I told the bureaucrats here that, on this basis, people are being victimized by this law, that by putting a temporary substance here, at least by taking actual insurance premiums of these people, we could bring relief to these people by forgiving the fines and the delay hikes, but unfortunately, we couldn't. But, yet, here we come, so there are arrangements that are only for their own pleasure, for their own benefit. When these arrangements are made, unfortunately, Parliament doesn't find a cure for the people who are the real victims, especially the people who are not the victims, especially the people who are on the side of prosperity, as Ozal said, we love the rich, we love the rich, we make special arrangements here to serve those rich. I think it's time for AKP people to give that up. In fact, the Speaker of Parliament has to find a cure for that, so he's coming in here and making a motion at the last minute. How many people read this motion? What's this motion called? And we don't know if these pirate proposals are telling us who the government's resources are going to, but here are the AKP's particularly special members of the group who are coming to them from a number of people, conglomerates, who are giving them proposals here, and at the last moment, the billions of the state are going. It's a shame people should have a conscience, precious MPs. We need to cut them off. From now on, let's not make laws based on the majority of AKP's own majority of the issues that don't come from commissions. It's really bad for the country and for the arrangement. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0079par0134	Thank you, young man. Mr. Secretary will make a brief statement.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0080par0136	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, both the testimony of Mevlüt Bey, and the speech of Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0081par0138	Why, sir?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0080par0139	Look, the subcommittee...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0081par0140	Inform us, Mr. Secretary, inform us first. You're passing it on without informing us.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0080par0141	If you'll listen. Look, you've got...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0081par0142	But you're not giving me any information. Am I not a commissioner? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0082par0143	Mr. Aslanoglu, listen to the statement.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0080par0144	But listen. Look, if you have a bill, I'll give you the page of it -- turn to page 13. On page 13, we say on page 13: On the other hand, we have come to the conclusion that the new framework of our lower commission should be fixed on 8th and 2 percent of the short-term insurance arm bonus rate -- which we are currently doing -- the additional cost to the central management budget -- should be calculated by the relevant institutions and evaluated by the Plan and Budget Commission. This issue has now been discussed in the commission, and is a subject brought here on the upper commission, with the idea that we should not put a new substance as a principle. So, did he get his financials done? It's been done, it's the institution's income from here. I'm not convinced that any of our fellow lawmakers in Parliament would object to an enhancement of our institutions, therefore the Social Security Agency's income. I meant that as an explanation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0083par0147	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Moving on to QA. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0084par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are 44,000 chiefs in Turkey. They demand improvement in their salary due to the lack of 54,000 headmen's salaries, and I'd like to convey it to you. 1) Before 1/1/2012, before the income test, what are the numbers compared to the number of green cards today and the number of green cards today? 2) Is there an sanction for those who don't apply for an income test? 3) Does the income test have a bonus debt, and if so, what's the monthly bonus? 4) How much credit has social security been made for those who do not apply for income tests? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0085par0157	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0086par0159	Mr. President, thank you. I have a question for the Minister. I'm just saying this because our friends from the region usually call and say it's a healing: laborer, officer, contractually, some of the employees' payrolls are being paid every month for the Syrians. Is it right to cut such money, is it true? Is there any way you can prevent that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0087par0162	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0088par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Another important problem is the gender gap in working life. Of those who are not part of the labour force in Turkey, 7 million are men and 19 million are women. In our country, women's employment is 28 per cent, while women's employment in the EU is 50 per cent, reaching 64 per cent in OECD countries. In Turkey, 28 per cent of women's employment and almost half of the EU (ECD) countries have only one-third. According to another study, the number of women working in Turkey has dropped around 500,000 compared to last year. Has there been any research on the cause of the decline in women's employment? What policies have been followed so far in order to increase women's participation in the labour force? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0089par0167	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0090par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Law 6356 and domestic public transport services, petrochemistry and especially the bans on strikes in banks are under way. This practice violates the ILO norms. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to make legal arrangements for this situation that violates the ILO norms? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0091par0172	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0092par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. I said that the strike zones were expanded yesterday, and I'm expressing them today. But let's face it, each country has its own conditions, and that's something that's taken into account in ILO's eyes. Thus, Turkey continues to take positive steps in parallel with democracy. I can tell you about women's employment: there's a significant increase in employment and a rise in female employment, but we are aware that it's not at the level of countries you compare. So, if you'll pay attention to our incentives, we're continuing the practice of paying the premiums of women who can work no matter how old they are. And I would like to point out here that we will continue this premium support for the increase of women's employment during our talks on the next 5084. Besides, women's employment education is extremely important. As the level of education increases, we also see increased participation in the labour force, when you compare it to the level of education at 70 percent. That's why it's important. I believe we've taken steps in the context of common education that will contribute to the process. Of course, yesterday, we know that our chiefs are being paid to pay their premiums, but we also know their problems. These studies are being carried out within our concerned Ministry of Interior. I hope the Minister has no explanation...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0093par0179	This has been going on for 11 years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0092par0180	Sir, I remember when I was acting as the group president, we had increased the chief monthly rate of 99 dollars by 100 percent. After that, we now have a salary of around $420. Is that enough? Every time we say it, it's better... in parallel with the improvement of the country's conditions, we're making it common to all segments. On the other hand, you asked about the income test. We're going to present you with detailed figures on the revenue test -- you asked me about it yesterday. I told them there were 9,895,404 people who took income tests. I present to you in writing the comparison of the past. There's a statement on the payroll of employees who work at some institutions that there's been a cutback on what's being found in the camps for the Syrians. The truth is, I'm the first to hear it. As a government, we've paid 500 million liras as a government, which is an old number, 500 trillion liras so far. We welcome our Syrian brothers, our citizens in the camps, who have saved themselves from the fire and taken refuge in Turkey as a state. Other than that, there's no other information, but if you have any specific information, I'd like you to pass it along. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0094par0184	Thank you, Mr. Steel. But we've got deputies in the system, and we've got time. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0095par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are allegations that certain cuts from our pensioners' monthlys have been made to satisfy the needs of Syrian asylum seekers, there are complaints. Are these claims true? Does this have a legal basis? In addition, SEC bonuses were already deposited from the bank, which are now blocked, and there are allegations at some collection centers that those bonuses are being paid. This is a serious victim of our citizens who want to pay the SEC bonus. Is there such an app? Do you intend to change this application? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0096par0191	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0097par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've been in power for 11 years, the chiefs have been complaining for 11 years. These studies are still going on, you say. How many years do you need to finish your work? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0098par0196	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0099par0198	Mr. President, thank you. You're saying there's a claim that the pensioners have been cut off from their pensions. If you can prove the claim, we'll do what's necessary, but you're saying it's a claim. If you have any concrete data on this claim, I've just told you to deliver them. The S.S.K. bonus collection centers are continuing in the current order, a problem has not been transmitted to us. I'm saying we're ready for your findings on this one. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0100par0202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0101par0204	We still have time. He didn't answer.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0100par0205	Mr. Tanal, I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Yes, go ahead. Ask one more question. We have time.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0101par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked the question, Mr. Secretary didn't answer, and I'm asking it again. Turkey has 54,000 Mukhtars, their fee is $380, under the minimum wage. No chores. And we're still working to improve this fee. You said, Mr. Secretary. You've been in power for 11 years, how many more years do you need to fix the salary of these chiefs? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0102par0210	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0103par0212	Sir, I didn't say it again because I just said it. What have you done? I'm saying we've raised the $99 to 420. Now you're saying it's not enough. You're right. We respect that it's not enough, but we say that it's the government's duty to use the country's resources to all fair and equal areas, or else Turkey has left behind the period of ruining one side. There's a steady, steady study. The concerned minister is working on our friend. I said, "We haven't had any work done on our chiefs until today." If you say so, I didn't say so. We've got work to do. That's why I gave you the $99 sample.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0102par0213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Thus, a new substance has been made available. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following 10th item to the current 370 Orders Numbered Legislature. Minister of Labor and Social Security Articles 83 and 84 of Article 10-5510 have been lifted from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0104par0223	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0102par0224	Since the commission has joined the motion with a majority, I will open the motion as a new clause. Vocabulary?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0105par0226	On behalf of myself...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0106par0227	Mr. President, on behalf of myself...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0102par0228	In the name of the person. On behalf of the group, Mr. Cetin... Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0107par0231	Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're now dealing with a second supplemental violation following an additional clause. Law 5335 was adopted by the AKP majority in 2006, despite our criticism. We explained their inadequacies at the time, so I've made arrangements for the Social Insurance Institution. We said that it shouldn't be done with logic, that it should be discussed well, that it should be considered well. Now, the joke of the 81st article (c) which we've just discussed, which is meant to be done with the 10th article, is clearly written in Article 81 (c), the joke of Article 81 (c), as the short-term insurance arm is a bonus rate, as said by the Minister of S. L. S. S. says, there is no loss to the employee, as far as the risk of the work is concerned in business accident and occupational illness is between 1 per cent and 6.5 per cent. I don't even know about insurance and social security regulations. Dear friends, what's going on here, Article 83? The object of reference is being removed from effect. At the same time, Article 84 is being lifted from effect. What is Article 83? If you ask: Short-term insurance handles are a premium schedule and how to determine the dangers, classrooms and degrees of work. Now, national education is a problem, it's like solving problems by shutting down schools. So you don't shut down these factories, you don't shut down these mines, the mines, the quarry, the chemical companies. What are you doing? You hide the danger classes of those places from the public, you hide them from the community, you hide them from the workers, and you passed this substance six years ago, six years later -- and six years later in the mines, you failed to see the success of exhuming the bodies of nine workers in Afghanistan, in the middle of nowhere, yesterday -- the bodies of eight workers were just buried -- what are you doing to get rid of them? You remove the substances and reduce the premium rates, allowing the Social Security Agency -- no matter what the Minister says -- to weaken -- to be favoured, encouraged by malicious employers. Why was the article placed in 2006? Dear friends, I mean, the substance isn't enough. The Labour Health and Occupational Safety Charter was in effect when Law 508 or Labor Act 1475 was in effect. In that charter, heavy, dangerous and toxic works were considered beautiful. The charter's out of order. In business accidents, we rose to third place in the world and first place in Europe. Why are we up? Because there are no precautions taken. Under the government's protection, employers wanted to use the worker as a slave because social security institutions collapsed. And now we stand up and say that no matter what conditions the workers work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work, whether they work or not they work, or not, the law doesn't care about the law, the minister doesn't even care, he's not even read, he's got it, he's got it ready, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it down, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he' Friends, Articles 83 and 84 are the clauses in which the change in Article 81 (c) is closed, such as a cover-up of crime or future accusations. That's why we met at the subcommittee, retreated, reached a principle agreement, and now we've been trying to do something with a mutual dialogue since two days ago. I mean, I've never been the man for the idea of exploiting things. We come in good faith, and we want good intentions in return. There are a lot of problems. I told you the other day in my speech on the whole, if we write down the problems that the Social Security Agency needs to solve, pages by pages, it's not over. It's impossible for them to make a single law offer or correct it with a motion. And when I told the minister yesterday, he said, "Ya, we'll make a new package, we'll put it in there." Mr. Secretary, put this in the package -- whatever package it is -- let's at least believe in your promises, trust them, and we can figure out what to do -- let's act accordingly. So, we want to be confident, we want to be supportive. No, you're saying we don't want support. Now, I'm about to ask for a roll call on the clause vote, supply, majority, can you provide? I'm declaring this roll call from here now. All right, I'm calling roll call from now on. Come on, don't stress this House's working relationship so much, don't break it. This isn't helping anyone. So, putting aside the content, even on principle, you're in an approach to demoralizing lawmakers, opposition lawmakers. Therefore, these substances do no harm to the institution. The meaning is that you do not know the functions of the institution, the mechanisms of operations. Therefore, I say we cannot attend, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0108par0242	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0109par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, when there's a majority, when there's a majority of commissions, Mr. Secretary skips the commission, brings in experts from the commission without discussion, without discussion, with the General Assembly. Now, in the 10th article, they say the last minute goals are put out -- it's not midnight in the House, it's daytime -- you're removing Article 83 and 84. Have fear of God, for in the mine cave, people have just died. He's -- he's not even licensed to the mine company -- he's building a company that I don't know about, I don't know, mine, metal, whatever, he's bringing his worker down to the mine, he's bringing him down a mile. Now, could he be a member of the same company that works outside with the danger class and its bonus? No, because according to this density, there's a premium on danger. According to this bonus, his pension is increasing, and according to this bonus, his retirement period is set. There's a measurement. In social security, since the past, who would you serve if you put the danger class of a laborer in a toxic metal study and the class of a tourist hotel in the same spot? Who wins from this? The employer wins? Why? The employer pays the premium. Why? The worker pays some, but the employer pays most. Guys, is this Parliament going to work for employers? So he's not going to work for the workers or the workers? We've already ruled in the budget for the government to pay the 5 per cent employer's bonus. 5% there. Now, what happens when you put these dangerous classes together when you remove Article 83 and 84? Hasbelkader, a worker who worked 30 days, 60 days, died or was poisoned in a dangerous mine collapse in that classroom, what are you going to do? Is there an answer to that? When you remove 83, 84, there's a gap in the law. There's no explanation for this, fellas. There's only one explanation for this: you do the same, one type of business, you turn it into an employer's paradise, and that's how the workers get crushed. It's the right thing to do. Now, let's not argue about this, there are so many jobs in Turkey that their retirement period is short because it's dangerous. They're a little higher in price, whether they want to or not, because they're dangerous. In dangerous workplaces, bonuses are a little higher, pensions are a little higher. So when you lift that standard and you level it, you're making an arrangement against the worker, against the worker. Our concern here is this: look, these last-minute motions for substance abuse are in the following article: the restructuring of the debts of sports clubs. Now, we've made a motion, we're not going to talk about it, but we need to explain this. It's a sports-related substance, the construction of loans from sports clubs and social security benefits... what did we say? If sports companies, clubs are bankrupt, if they don't have the money, give up. We've made a motion, we've asked for a waiver, but the government comes up with a new proposal, a new clause, and changes the substance. E, did we discuss this in the Commission? No. What's he doing? He's bringing in a new configuration. Now, when you bring in a new configuration, the government's motion will be discussed, and when he is accepted, ours will fall, so our waiver will fall. So, what do we have to do to get ahead of the government? This time, we're going to give up our motion to waive... I mean, most of the sports clubs are already standing with a lot of challenges. They don't have sponsors, they're underprivileged, they're underfunded. When it comes to bonuses, employees and staff, athletes' bonuses, and if those clubs are closed, if they're bankrupt, what if those clubs are bankrupt? The lives of the people there will be victims, they will be deprived of social security, they will be unpaid, they will crawl through the gates of business courts, no, they will sue for detection. If you're the government, take it, it's the beauty of the social state, you'll give up once. You've made this waiver in the employer's debt, and you've granted 12 financial pardons. And make a waiver to the sports clubs. Sports clubs are hard to stand up, walking around every day, trying to get some support from the market, the shop, the sports fans, the municipalities, somewhere. Not everyone is a brand; not like Fenerbahçe, not like Galatasaray, not like Beşiktaş, not like Tripolispor. They don't have companies, corporations, money. Take a look at sports clubs in Anatolia, sports clubs in towns, accidents, villages. In general, we value sports in Turkey so much that the results of our Olympics are obvious, the results of our sports. It's just big sports clubs coming up. Now, here, the government will bypass this with a motion, and neither will we. So, what do we do? In order for us to meet, for us to talk, we need a motion for matter to be removed, and we have this motion. Guys, there's a very simple way to do this. It's very simple, look, we've withdrawn our motion. The Minister's motion will remain alone. And we won't be talking, Mr. Secretary. You play, you sing, you play, you do. There's no need for commission, there's no need for opposition, you're already the majority, and our offer is worthless. Then what are we doing here? My friend, we don't make laws, we don't make laws. We don't have a problem making quality law. Here we are doing a process of legislation, a process that is shapedly the majority, to make a poor law. It's very dangerous. There's no such thing in parliamentary democracy, and there's no such thing in the presidential system. So your political designers don't have the presidential system or the full presidential system that they bring in. For him, we want a little more attention to the laws that concern these kinds of, vital, and a lot of people, millions. We, the party group, have supported each step in this matter in good faith. We say yes to what we see, but what we don't see, we don't have the right to say yes. We have a political program; we're for work, we're for employees. Then we're going to suggest our opinion on this. And you're blocking it. So God bless you and bless you. Three months from now, you'll come back here to correct that mistake with a new law. I'm telling you, Mr. Elitaş, we've changed the law that was passed three months ago, and if we don't come back here in three months, you'll see. I'm saying good luck with that.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0110par0255	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of him, Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktutan. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0111par0259	Mr. President, I'd like to share with you the transcript of the speech written by Mr. Mustafa Balbay. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise from Silivri to share my thoughts on the Day of Journalists working on January 10th. As a member of parliament who has not left the pen in prison, I celebrate this special day of all our fellow journalists, especially those who serve under the roof of the Grand Assembly. I wish journalists who make one of the most difficult professions in the world to reach the standards of countries that have developed their mandates and social rights. There are two main festivals in Turkey, which journalists traditionally celebrate: the removal of censorship on July 24, 1908: the release of censorship on February 10, 1961, as well as the release of Law 212, which brings significant innovations in working conditions. Members of parliament want to keep the judiciary and the media under control in order to make the powers of extraordinary times undisputed. Unfortunately, that understanding applies to our land as well. For journalists, the festival was announced with the closing of such periods, followed by the arrangements for freedom. In Turkey, all journalists are in this situation today. All reports by journalistic organisations and international institutions in our country show that the painting is not good at all. Turkey has declined 50 steps in the last ten years, according to a press freedom index by the Journalists Without Borders Organization each year. In 2002, Turkey was ranked ranked 99, and in 2011, it was ranked 128. While bragging about being among the top 20 countries in the world of economic size, we are among the last countries in freedom of the press. While Turkey is trying to catch progress in the field of communication, it also stands in the way of Internet broadcasting, the last link to communication tools. Access to 43 sites was blocked in 2007, which increased year-on-year, reached 7,700, and was blocked by 19,500 sites in 2012. Members of parliament, the biggest threat to freedom of the press is to put journalists in prison. International organisations use the term "open prison for journalists" in Turkey. I don't want to speculate on the number of journalists in prison. The fact that even a journalist is in prison alone poses an open threat to the profession, to the community, to freedom of information. However, many journalists who are still in charge feel the risk of being put behind bars at any moment, every touch of the computer's keys in their own inner world. Freedom of the press is the right for journalists to write what they want, as well as whether they think it's realistic or not. In fact, a media that writes simple facts needs the most power. It is the insurance of our country's healthy development that the media oversees power on behalf of the community. A power that turns its back on the light of truth can see nothing but its own darkness. I call on you to give up an understanding that sees power of journalism as equal to terrorist activities, limits freedom of press and expression to praise the government. Ninety years ago, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk called from the Parliament's bench on 1 November 1923: "Resolved from freedom of the press must be provided with freedom of the press directly from this kind of power today. Congressmans, our current problem is that the way to ensure lasting peace of the interior is through freedom of press and expression. In our age when communication technologies are rapidly developing, all thoughts except hate speech should be clearly shared. In modern times, it is similar to changing the temperature of the Council of Ministers' decision to prevent the spread of a response to a public opinion. It is the 21st century of communication, the main element of this age is journalism, self-renewed, adapting to the age, one of the most popular professions. As I celebrate the Day of Journalists Working on January 10th once again, I also hope that in the near future, journalists in prison will not be declared on the day. I salute you with my sincerest love and respect, with longing for the days of journalism, body and spiritual freedom. Mustafa Balbay. Smyrna MP. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0112par0274	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0113par0277	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs will be arriving shortly. In Article 11, we have no other right to speak there -- because it is our proposal. But, Mr. Secretary, here you are bringing in a configuration of the debts of the elite sports club, and you're bringing it back in piece by piece. Dear friends, in Turkey, sports clubs are governed according to the Associations Act. Since it is run according to the Law of Associations, whatever manager that sports club has taken over for its debt to Finance and Social Security is responsible, jointly in debt, co-signed. The corporations can take all the debt from one person, if they want. For years, there were people who wanted to serve the city's team, especially in the Anatolian clubs, but now these clubs won't be able to find a manager. Mr. Secretary, let's get to the bottom of this. You don't bring it from the foundation, you just bring in the club that's been destroyed, but today, in Turkey, the bal league, the amateur cluster, there are a lot of clubs that are not ideal, and they have a lot of debt to you. I've just heard a number called '57 million.' Besides, there are closed companies; they don't have partners, they don't have companies. There are cooperatives whose record has been erased from the trade record; no, there is no such cooperative. But they have debts. Come on, don't just bring it to clubs that are exclusive, it's just that... all lawmakers have a problem with teams in the county. The problem with all of us, all of our friends, many of the Anatolian clubs, is, for example, Ankara Power, Ankara.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0114par0280	You have Yalovaspor, Yalovasporun...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0113par0281	For example, there's a lot of clubs... there's a lot of exclusives, they're gone, they're gone, there's no clubs. Okay, you're bringing this, but what you're bringing is you're putting this into a 36-month configuration. Mr. Secretary, don't bring it in pieces, come change this motion. In this motion, right now, except for the Super League, especially the Third League, all the clubs we call the Second League have a huge debt. For example, I know a club that performed for 350 people. Not at all, not at all, not at the club one day, just a name for the club of your county.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0115par0283	Let's at least clear all the sports clubs' debts.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0113par0284	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, If you're doing something, come on, if the clubs outside the Super League don't have broadcasting revenues, don't just call it a club or a company that's gone, companies that's closed... For example, there's a co-op again, I know, I just referred to Mr. Secretary, there's nothing in the co-op. He's been gone for ten years, and he's in great debt to you. Come, a little bit of this scope, this way... if the goal is to get public money, to get public money, to get these loans, if we're going to give people an opportunity, don't limit the scope, expand the scope a little. For example, I just got a call from a friend of mine. I'm a temp, I work three months a year. I'm going to retire at the age of 200. There are these problems. 200-year-olds... let's find a solution to these problems, folks. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, all groups... are a nuisance to all of you. If there's a lot of good intentions, a lot of thieves, a lot of dishonest people out there, let's never forgive them, but let's not put a hump on the backs of people who served in those clubs with good intentions. For example, a doctor, a professor, a physician, goes home to practice, friends. Come on, let's rock it to the clubs outside the Super League. The goal is to collect the money here again. Give us an opportunity to expand this motion with this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0116par0290	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0293	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, these two articles -- I've just stated -- are very important regulations that have been spoken in the Plan and Budget subcommittee and entered into the records... However, the main commission adopted additional 3-4 clauses in the Plan and Budget, particularly regarding the accession of tradesmen to the Social Security Board. But let's not agree to much more. One principle decision was expressed to us by you, the precious opposition MPs, and we respected it. We didn't say...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0118par0294	So did you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0295	See, this is important, very important in politics. We don't bring such a thing in the General Assembly. If we had a word for it, it would be very appropriate for you to say so today. But we insisted that this matter is an important substance, my friends. What are they talking about now? So we're saying here, when we call it a short-term insurance premium... look, some of our friends are talking about the mine here, the mining accident, the danger class of business. Guys, let's get this straight. See, here's the thing: there's a short-term insurance premium between 1 and 6.5. At the risk of the job, it's being paid right now. According to what? According to Articles 83 to 84, which we are currently removing. As much as a business risk is involved, he gets a score between one and six-and-a-half, or he needs to pay a bonus. Now, do you need 83 to 84 if you stick the bonuses to 2? We're holding the bonuses at 2 percent, and we're saying: let's keep it at 83 to 84. That's not true. That's the stuff that's been eliminated. So what do you have to do with 83 and 84? You need to lift it. That's the arrangement we made. Now, this arrangement is not about a danger class. Friends, we recently adopted the Law on Health and Safety. In that law, businesses were classified as less dangerous, dangerous, and very dangerous. I want to make it very clear that this isn't a rating or anything. The other important thing is, against these workers, friends, not against these workers, but by employers.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0298	You're always cutting your pension because there's no money. You're printing your pensions. Why? Because there's no money.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0299	Look, excuse me. So, what do we do? Now, let's call it gross monthly $1,000. If you apply this short-term insurance premium for 1,000 lira gross per month, it's $10. So, where did we fix it? We fixed it at 20 TL. Why are we holding it together, guys? I've just told you, I've said NACE, I've said other things, but I'm telling you right now, there's more than 23,000 audits and conflicts about conflict. What do you mean? The guy's actually got a job at six and a half...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0301	So the previous law is wrong. You did that, too.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0302	Excuse me. But what's he doing? He's showing his employee at the office, and there's no end to the conflict. Now, here, there's no loss of the institution, the institution's income is increasing. No one's getting the wrong job.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0304	How do you know the institution's income is increasing?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0305	If we're in favor of increasing the institution's revenues, one, there's no loss to the worker. The employer pays for it. I'm here to tell the worker...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0306	And when you retire, don't you keep a low salary? You're reducing the salary to 50 percent.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0307	Sir?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0308	Why are you lowering your salary to 50 percent? Because there's no money. You're giving up money here. You're saying there's no loss of a worker.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0309	Sir, what does that have to do with anything? We're telling you something else. Now, you've expressed here, you said that you've associated the temporary incapacity fund with the continuous incapacity income with the short-term insurance premium.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0311	Yeah, why isn't that relevant?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0312	Look, no, sir. Look...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0313	The institution is losing revenue. You don't pay pensions when you don't have money.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0314	Sir, if I'm the Minister of this business, if I'm bringing these arrangements, I know what I'm bringing...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0315	I'll take care of it.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0316	Look, according to her monthly earnings, this is a temporary incapacity allowance.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0317	I'm in charge of this, too, relative.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0318	According to your monthly earnings, this has nothing to do with bonuses. So I don't think we should mix pears with apples, dear friends; I specifically state that.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0119par0319	I'll make a package. You say, you bring it, you put it there.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0320	So I respect your view of opposition in such a way as opposition. But it's a serious matter, an important issue, an important arrangement, an arrangement that eliminates many conflicts, I think...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0120par0321	Are we acting informally, Minister?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0322	No, I'm not saying "gayricid." It's a serious matter, so before we get here...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0120par0324	Tell us, and we'll sign it.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0325	Sir, we told you, we told you on the commission, we tell you here.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0121par0326	Where did you tell him, Mr. Secretary? That's not how the law works.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0122par0327	Please, let's not talk in person.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0328	I believe the audience is aware of that. Because our employers, our workers, our working lives, our industrial relations are facing serious conflicts because of this difference; we eliminate them, our institution's income is increasing.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0121par0329	So if the law isn't done well, there's a lot of conflict.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0330	It's no big deal here. Article 83 clearly regulates the determination of 1 to 6.5. We don't need this stuff because we've fixed it at 2/3, so we have to remove it. The 84th article is a matter that regulates danger if there is a change of work at work, if there is a change in the category of danger. When these are fixed at 2%, you don't need these substances, so we've brought this arrangement to your attention. Again, I wish you well, I offer you respect. But, Mr. President, it's an arrangement about sports, which comes from here: our dear friends have arrived. There are clubs in the amateur league. So, you know, the Super League, the First League, the Second League, the Third League and the Amateur League...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0123par0335	Tell me what they all owe.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0336	The clubs that fell into the amateur cluster have no income. So it's the director of their current debt; one. Secondly, there are broken clubs, no more clubs. However, the administrations are also subjected to the period of these loans. That's what friends want. It was said that this is what we would call an arrangement that literally means it's out of zero.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0124par0338	Sir, we don't call it no.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0125par0339	What about the amateurs?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0340	But on the other side -- as you might say -- the clubs related to the Third League, the Second League, and the Super League -- are now -- as of March 2012 -- owe $110 million. The $41 million of this is structured; the $57.6 million is now a new debt. So, of course, the High Council, we have no insistence on this, but it's a serious problem, and it's a serious problem. We can pull this arrangement, this motion, that's fine.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0124par0341	No, sir, we're not against it, Mr. Secretary, but extend it a little.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0342	There can also be a new radical arrangement, we can talk about it, but there's an urgency, and I'll just say it's not a club like this, because it's something that happens because there are clubs that live their lives.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0124par0343	I don't have a master. He's in the amateur league, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0126par0344	Looks like there is.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0117par0345	Appreciation belongs to the High Council. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0127par0347	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0128par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the Minister will be angry, what is it that I've taken away from these chiefs? You're always asking questions from the chiefs. Yes, the chiefs have problems, and we need to tell you about the chiefs' problems because you're sitting in the executive office, and because you're sitting in the executive office, our chiefs are really victims. Under the 18th Amendment of our Constitution, sir, giving no one a wage under the cost of living is a ban on forced labor, and the chiefs face forced labor. At least there's no way to employ clients with a price under the regular fee. It's better to be appreciated in the form of a fee. We call ourselves the world's 16th largest economy. Can't the world's 16th largest economy pay 54,000 chiefs a minimum wage? We can lend money to IMF, we can't raise wages to our chiefs, you say. Isn't that a contradiction, Minister?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0127par0351	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0129par0353	Mr. Secretary, the number of social security executives is around 900. They're straight officers. Are you thinking of giving them a speciality? In other ministries, the officers who do the same work are given these positions, but they don't have them, and they're a victim. Do you have any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0127par0355	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0130par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have granted the right of service to Bulgarian citizens who were forced to emigrate in 89 with the interim clause added to Law 3201 in 2008. After that, we have tens of thousands of people who have migrated from Bulgaria to Turkish citizenship and who have not been able to borrow their services. Do you intend to pass a law on these? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0131par0360	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0132par0362	I apologize, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0131par0363	You're not talking, fine. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0133par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we don't have time to talk about what we're doing with the Mukhtars, of course, but while we're doing this social security reform, we've brought in a month's insurance policy on our village chiefs for 20 days in exchange for a month's pay, and we've also brought in a month's insurance policy for fifteen days. Just like you said, I agree. Turkey, just like you said, I agree with the loan to the IMF, and with those beautiful sentences you've just counted, Mr. Tanal. Turkey has reached that point.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0134par0368	He lends money to the IMF, but he can't pay the chief?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0133par0369	Look, 15 days, as I said, he's got the mayor insured for a month, and he's insured for 15 days' pay. Now, let me just say that we don't have any work to do with social security executives passing through with expertise. The third question is: a forced migration from Bulgaria, which was a migration during the Jivkov period, in 1989. During this period, we had made a legal arrangement about the social rights of those who were forced to emigrate or the integration of their work to Turkey during my Ministry -- I remember -- but then it was not a forced migration, but a forced migration. I'd like to state that in particular. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0135par0373	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0136par0375	Mr. Secretary, do you have any interest in correcting the situation of university professors who were victimised by Law 5335 because of the institution's error and misreading, and withdrawing ongoing lawsuits and seeking a compromise? These are the students at the very victimized university, about 200 of them. Do you intend to take a step towards solving this problem rather than prolonging it because of the past application and misinterpretation, instead of being sued by citizens, faculty? While this law is being discussed, do you intend to conclude it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0135par0377	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0137par0379	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in this construction sector, especially young children from Anatolia, all work in construction. In the last few years, you can be sure that nearly 20 people have lost their lives. We sent their funerals to their families, but no wonder -- we've sometimes expressed them here -- the day the deaths take place, almost the same day, they're insured, and most of these contractors know so well that they're trying to convince families of small things, and there's such a serious problem, and there's a serious victim. We've carried this to the General Assembly several times, but so far, we've had no results. And we know how sensitive you are about it. I'd appreciate it if you'd be interested. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0138par0382	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Flagtutan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0139par0384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there was no demand for a bill in any way when the SSC was being paid earlier regarding contracts. As the bill was not requested, earlier payments paid income tax and only stamp tax. Now there's a problem with contract lawyers, and they also have to pay VAT for the power of attorney's office because they're back on the bill. Although there are tax court rulings on this issue, and the case is top-notch, and the appeal is in place, there is a victim of contract lawyers. How do you feel about that, do you think you can handle it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0140par0387	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0141par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the work of professors who are retired in the public, and if they work again, they need to be paid off.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0142par0391	But they were cut off even though they were exempt.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0141par0392	Here, they need to be paid off. You've told me a few people about the conflict here, I think it's specific; let's look at it, and if it's something that needs to be resolved, let's think about it together.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0142par0393	There's a wrong app, they're exempt.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0143par0394	We have the wrong app, Mr. Secretary, and we ask that it be corrected. The problem remains because the Ministry misreads the issue, misusing it.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0141par0395	Let's reassess. So let's evaluate what's wrong, what's wrong with what you're saying. Of course, in business accidents, the issue of insurance on the same day is not a problem for rights owners. But, unfortunately, we have those kind of findings. Our legislation on this is clear, we're doing what needs to be done. I don't think there's anything else, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0144par0398	Mr. Beren, please.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0145par0399	Thank you. Minister, I don't understand your answer to my question. So citizens who migrated from Bulgaria want to borrow money by paying for the services there, so they want to deposit money. There's an arrangement...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0144par0402	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0146par0404	Now, I'm saying we've made an arrangement for those who are forced to emigrate from Bulgaria. That was his motive.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0147par0405	And for the others...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0146par0406	There's no arrangement with the others. We gave them time. During that time, over 30,000 of our family members who have applied have gained social rights here, so he has earned his pension. But about the others... Turkey, of course, has a policy about these issues, not just the Ministry of Labour Social Security, but Turkey. Therefore, it is beneficial to evaluate this within a wholeness. So we don't have single relatives from Bulgaria, we have Western Thrace, we have Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have all of the Balkan geography, we also have -- the same thing when you look east -- we have the Ajska Turks coming to Turkey. So, these were arranged in 89, because they were forced to emigrate on grounds, because they were forced to be displaced. I'm pointing that out. But we don't have an arrangement with the others right now. It would be much more appropriate to consider it in a wholeness.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0147par0408	We have a lot of victims, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0148par0409	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're out of time and we're out of time. Now, let's put the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0149par0411	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0148par0412	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0150par0414	Mr. President, this is an extension, not a motion. I apologize.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit03spe0148par0415	This is an additional clause with a motion, sir. I'll vote with an electronic device. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is accepted. Thus, new materials have been added to the current text of the bill. These articles will be added and other material numbers will be identified during the writing of the law, but we will continue the Commission Report, which we discussed in order to avoid any confusion. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0148par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 370. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 8 added to Article 5510 and the 9th Amendment in some Laws be changed by Social Insurance Act 370 rows and General Health Insurance Act. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ali Riza Özturk Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam İzzet Cetin Mehmet Şeker However, in accordance with laws 1479 and mulga 2926, from those who are insured before 1/10/2008, the insurance policy should be changed according to the written demands of the insurance people who need to change the start-up date, all of their services under which insurance has been redistributed under the rules of social security, are made into digits, and the paying bonus debts are constructed according to the relevant clauses of the Law 6111." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0151par0015	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0148par0016	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0152par0017	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0148par0018	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0153par0019	Dear Sugar.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0148par0020	Mr. Sugar, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0154par0022	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the motion, and I salute you all. The 9th article of the bill is generally positive, but it is not taken into account that other social security laws of these insurancemen have been issued as part of Article 8's 2's joke. The decision is wrong. This joke also means that the right to be condemned, as it is a deterrent of the use of a judgment and nourishing new injustices. This should not be part of a generally positive bill. Minister, Turkey is in serious trouble over minimum wage. The number of minimum wagers in Turkey is around 35 per cent, with a very serious rate of 57 per cent among all employees. Unfortunately, we boast that we've given 4 per cent increase to our Asgarian salaries. But the number won this year on the Turkish Stock Exchange is 62 per cent, dear friends. It's the second most profitable market in the world, the Turkish Stock Exchange. The Venezuelan stock exchange won 330 per cent, and the Turkish stock market won 62.1 per cent. Of course, if only our workers, our workers, our poor citizens, our pensioners had earned it and won it, it would have meant a lot more, but unfortunately, foreigners have won it. My fellow lawmakers, I believe that I will read to you eight names from here, that none of you will remember these names, that you will not know: Huseyin Oarci, Muharrem Builder, Ahmet Candyci, Mohsin Akım, Hasan Bozcı, Asik, İksal Kadioğlu, Arslan. These, my dear friends, are the ones who lost their lives the other day at the Turkish Stone Coal Kozlu House. They had hope, they had children, they had a future, they had faith, but these people, unfortunately, lost their lives because they weren't taken enough precautions. Mr. Secretary said in his statement, "We've identified six substances, and in light of what we've identified, we're going to do criminal procedures for this company, and we're doing research for it. It's true, but Mr. Minister, why did you let it work? If an airplane is malfunctioning, is it allowed to take off? There are serious neglects there; there are not enough drillings, and there are serious warnings from the Court of Justice about this, and there are serious neglects in the study. Dear friends, I'll tell you one more thing, and I'm sure you won't remember that either. Again, the year of the 2nd Legislature in the 24th term was 131st, which is 4/7/2012, where everyone raised their hands and passed this law. What was that law? If this law were a law that prevented the Court from taking a stand, dear friends, you passed this law with a unanimous vote. What was the result of this law? As a result of this law, these eight friends of ours have lost their lives. With this law that we've made, we've destroyed eight people's lives. It's in the Court reports, it's in the auditor's reports, there's a shortage of this company, and it's been reported, but what did we do with the law you passed, and what did we do with the unanimous law here? We made these eight people lose their lives. On that day, our Deputy Group President Akif Hamzacebi, again, said here -- because I took it from the prisoners -- that I had expressed our views on the whole of the throne, or rather, at the last speech, once again. We supported our martyrs, our veterans, their relatives, and the arrangements regarding the victims of terrorism as the Republican People's Party Group, we signed motions, but at that point our support was complete, whether it was the Court, TÜBİTAK, the Centre for Measurement, Selection Placement, and the Constitution, we did not support the arrangements that we found contrary to the Constitution. So I ask that our attitude toward the bill be taken into this frame, and I say, "Thank you." Dear friends, here, in these people's deaths, I'm afraid you all have a role in the law that came out that day, God forgive you all. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0155par0031	Thank you, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0156par0032	Bravo Mehmet, that was a sweet speech!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit04spe0155par0033	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0155par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 370. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Law 5510 be changed in the following form. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Article 11 - 5510 has been added to the following temporary clause. Social security benefits are not cut from people who are insured under Article 46 - 5510 of Article 4 (b) joke (1) and (2). According to the law on the 12/4/1991 Anti-Terror Act, dated 3/11/1980 and the Transparency and Monthly Bonding of Nakdi (2330), the monthly monthly monthly payment of monthly monthly payments, or the duty of employees shall be paid according to the law or shall be paid due to security and shall be paid by the duty of the workers due to a pension, but the social security allowance from the period before 1.10.2008 will be expunged. The social security premium paid by these employees for their work period before 1,10,2008 is returned. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 370 Sequential Social Insurance Act and the General Health Insurance Act shall be changed in accordance with Article 11 of the Law Act and the temporary Article 46 added to Law 5510 in the following manner. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğer Kamer Young Kazım Kurt The Interim Article 46 - The first article of the 4th Amendment (b), which is covered by the basis of its study, requires that it be considered insured by the first article (i.e., the first article (i.e., the first article of the 4th Amendment), shall be paid a social security benefit bonus according to its legislation, as of the end of the month following the date of which this clause has entered into effect. The third joke of Article 30 (b) will be terminated from the date when this clause is in effect. Once insured for the first time, those who interrupt their insurance in any way may be able to borrow their time. According to this joke, the borrowers are insured according to Article 4 provisions. In accordance with the laws of 506, 2925, 1479, 2926 and 5434, pensions are bound according to the pre-laws 08.09.999, regardless of the age requirements passed by the law 4447 and 4759, if they have completed the number of pay-period days." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0157par0026	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0155par0027	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0158par0028	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0155par0029	Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0159par0030	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. Dear friends, of course, the bill brought by the AKP, which the government has brought in with this clause that we cannot approve in the Commission and the subcommittee, is very narrow. It's just that the debt of the taxpayers who didn't pay the social security premium on time has been decided to abandon and restructure according to Bag 6111 Law provisions. But it's not restructuring about... Retired pensioners, who are likely to be affected by the law when the law is passed, who are retired, who are re-employees, who have not paid 15 per cent of the social security premiums they have to pay, and who, as a result of studies with the Ministry of Labor and Finance on this issue, have been subjected to 400,000 taxpayer performances; this is the first one. I mean, it's not a restructuring, it's a complete decomposition of debt. That's not enough. Other than Turkey, there is no country that punishes its employees, punishes its pensioners. With our motion, we recommend that the social security benefits be removed and the cuts be eliminated and never come to the agenda again. Our second suggestion here... I mean, when you say AKP is old, it gives you goose bumps because you think of the High Soldier Shura. There is a situation where the state has passed a law in 1999 and has made its citizen a victim. At that time, he made a law called the legislature. Of course, there's no fault in the AKP's law being made, in the period of the trilateral coalition... now, people of 45-50 are out of work; if he's a worker, he's got his severance pay, the officer didn't get it, but he doesn't have the allowance to pay for his school student. That's why he's such a victim. So we didn't do it, let's just watch. It's not in harmony with government governance, it's incompatible with government rule. There's a social problem, there's a social responsibility. In his case, we added the second joke in our motion that our citizens, like those who retired 99 years ago, would be brought to their pensions and met on a salary as a need for social government understanding. Another third issue -- since long periods of working life -- has been degenerated, flexible working models have been brought in; workers, people have been removed from work during crisis periods; those who are at a certain age in the public sector, private sector have been transferred to retirement, age, service, and three conditions that have failed to complete the number of days of pensions, age and bonuses. And We made for them an obligation once, and We made for them a recourse. Dear friends, I mean, there's no way that he's going to object or crash the Social Security Agency or crash the institution with the largest budget after the state of the Republic of Turkey. There's a lot of law-enforcement friends out there, too. We have a law proposal on this, it's not combined. The main thing was to put them together and discuss them properly. Now the process that needs to be done, when this law is being discussed here, I just said, there are a lot of problems with Social Security, there are a lot of problems with it, and when we can do them together, look, we've been able to talk about two ten-minute items from five to ten minutes from each other since six hours. Instead of spending this much time working on commissions, working in parliament, if you're open to the suggestions, the contributions of the opposition, the friends who are currently in office in this parliament, who are currently in office at this hour, do not serve here in a state of agony, while they do not know what to do. So when you're making law, give up your sense of majority dictatorships, become democrats, listen to the voice of opposition, accept our motions, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0160par0038	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of Law 5510 be changed in the following form. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 11, 5510. Social security benefits are not cut from people who are insured under Article 46 - 5510 of Article 4 (b) joke (1) and (2). According to the law on the 12/4/1991 Anti-Terror Act, dated 3/11/1980 and the Transparency and Monthly Bonding of Nakdi (2330), the monthly monthly monthly payment of monthly monthly payments, or the duty of employees shall be paid according to the law or shall be paid due to security and shall be paid by the duty of the workers due to a pension, but the social security allowance from the period before 1.10.2008 will be expunged. The social security premium paid by these employees for their work period before 1,10,2008 is returned. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0161par0047	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0160par0048	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0162par0049	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0160par0050	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0163par0052	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 11th Amendment. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, tradesmen and artists have a very important role in the spread of capital and prosperity, improving revenue distribution, and maintaining social balances. Under Article 173 of the Constitution, a small tradesman and artist must be protected and supported by the state, but the AKP government treats our country's largest employment provider as step-sons, who pay taxes and insurance, as well as the highest employment in our country. In April 2010, when the government announced that the Trade and Arts Document for Change, Transformation and Support Strategy and Action Plan, which, in short, we call it the 3D... it was nearly three years ago, and unfortunately, this package was empty. Because of all this negativity, our business is about to collapse, the most powerful structure of socialization, communication, and enrichment of unity after the family institution, which is the main pillar of our country. And it is not for you to boast that We have increased it in usury, and it is not for you to boast that We have given it to it; and it is for the shopkeepers who are in debt. According to Social Security Agency data, we have 13,200 tradesmen working after retirement. After retirement, 15 per cent of the social security benefits are cut from the business and artists who work there. The goal of cutting social security benefits from retired employees is to open the way for young people who are expected to join the labour force, which is the government's motive. In contrast, tradesmen and artists are not workers; they are employers. Traders and artists who are still working while retired are in a position not to block the young labor force, but to provide them with jobs. For these reasons, social security benefits should not be cut from the age pensions of tradesmen and artists. Dear lawmakers, Anti-Terror Act No. 3713, Article 2330, Article 5434 of the Law on Retirement and Security, and under the law on Peace and Security, it is incumbent on the rights of social security benefits, which have been cut from employees by law number 5510. This is the right practice, but under these laws, it is the duty of the Turkish Armed Forces to receive a pension, and nearly 300 veterans who worked as employees have been cut off from social security premiums for their work period before October 1st 2008. Of the nearly 2,500 gasses working at other institutions, the social security premium for the work period before October 1, 2008 has not been cut. When these employees want to retire, they are owed social security benefits from their term before 1 October 2008 by the Social Security Agency. The demands of our veterans for working days prior to October 1, 2008 should be expunged, payback to those of our veterans whose social security benefits have been cut. In addition, the 28th article of Law 5510 has given our disabled citizens the right to retirement according to certain reports, and the growing age of retirement is causing a great deal of trouble in our veterans with various physical and spiritual problems, and our current working gas should be given this early retirement right, he says, with this thought I give you all respect.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0164par0057	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the current 370 rows of legislation be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Mustafa Kalaycı Article 12-5510 added the following temporary clause to the Law. "Current Article 47 - The fifth joke of Article 5335 shall be taken into consideration before the date of which the 30th Amendment shall be reconnected, in accordance with Articles 30 and third jokes of the Law, in order to determine when the pension or senior months of this month shall be reconnected. According to social security laws, pensions and original and financial debts on months determined to be paid illegally until the period of payment of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the subject of the period of the period of the Article 5335 and the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the article. According to the subdivision of Article 4 (b) of Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act (5510), according to the subdivision (4) of the subdivision, the amount of those who are considered insured before 31/12/2000 will be accounted for by the amount of taxpayers due to 32 per cent of their primary earnings in the history of demand, and insurance will be accounted for if the insurance holder demands this law within six months of its execution date. If the person who is insured pays the full amount of debt that has been delivered to him within six months of the day of the notification, they will be considered an insurance period. If the amount of debt to the insured is not fully paid during this period, they are not assessed as an insurance period and the amount paid is returned according to Article 89 of this law." This is the 12th draft of the current 370 rows. We would like to add the following joke to the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin Mehmet Ali Sesam Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Md. 12- III. As a joke, those who are not subject to any social security agency from the village and neighborhood chiefs will not be subject to an SGK revenue test. The premiums will be covered by the Ministry of Interior budget. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0165par0079	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0164par0080	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0166par0081	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0164par0082	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0083	Mr. President, we've made a very valuable motion regarding the chiefs. I'm going to read you a Parliamentary report, and I'm going to tell you the date and the person in a moment: Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I salute the Grand Assembly. I'm in your presence to tell you about the problems of our mayors, but, you know, not just of our chiefs, but of society, of every community, of workers, of workers, of workers, of farmers, of unemployed people, of great problems.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0168par0085	His name is Faruk Steel?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0086	We have valued lawmakers, 52,000 villages and neighborhood heads. Our mayorates are run by a law issued in 1924. It's where our citizens first applied. They are their mothers and their fathers. He's the head of everyone from birth to death. From the top level to the lowest level, he's everyone's chief. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when we look at what we've given our chiefs to carry these burdens, it's nothing. We're looking at a sad picture. The Mukhtars are the safest, most respected people in the neighborhood. They run for office, so they know the neighborhood best. We get 105 lira salary, 90 lira BUG-KUR bonus, and now we get $380 salary and $350 BUG-KUR bonus. My dear friends, a salary of £105, 90 lira BUG-KUR bonus. Now, the changing salary of $380, 350 lira BUG-KUR bonus... and it goes on and on. Finally, he says, as a result, the valued MPs are entering the election atmosphere of Turkey. I'd like to address my fellow members of the ruling party. ...and you can't go into the villages, it'll be extremely difficult for you to enter the villages unless you solve the chiefs' problem. You can't merge with the public, you can't be in public, it's very difficult to be in public. If you don't solve the tragic situation our chiefs were in before the elections, you won't be able to enter the villages... (History, June 18, 2002.)
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0169par0088	Who's singing?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0089	This is Mr. Bursa MP Faruk Çelik speaking.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0170par0090	That's right.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0091	That's right, that's right, I agree, Mr. Secretary, and I agree with you from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0171par0093	Come on, keep your promise.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0094	I couldn't agree more. That day, 90 lira salary, there's only one difference: 105 lira salary, 90 lira bonus. Today, 380 lira salary, 350 lira bonus. What has changed, friends, no sad painting? It's still, it's like, Mr. Secretary, it's not 4,000, it's 8,000.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0172par0096	Good for you!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0097	Dear friends, it's very sad. Now, in the new app -- all of these have BUG-KUR bonuses, the sad table -- they can't go to the doctor anymore, their wives and children can't go to the doctor. Since they're being tested for income, their salary is $350. However, they give green cards to those who are under 250. They can't get green cards. Let it go, his wife, his kids, they can't be treated for their BUG-KUR debts now that the new app has entered the hospital with an ID number. I'm looking for Faruk Çelik Bey who gave this speech. I congratulate you on that day's MP Faruk Çelik Bey.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0173par0100	He's the minister now!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0167par0101	He's made the problem very clear, okay, but how does the Minister of Labor and Social Security absorb this painting, this sad painting that we're in again? How he digests it, I leave it to your appreciation. I only read the House report. Appreciation is yours, appreciation is yours. It says here: there must be at least as much salary as the minimum wage. I'll give you the statement, Mr. Secretary. It's the same as... Mr. Secretary, I agree with you to the end. Make it a minimum wage, cut the tax, cut the BUG-KUR bonus, do everything. You've still managed by the law of 1924 for 11 years. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0174par0106	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the current 370 rows of legislation be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 12-5510 added the following temporary clause to the Law. "Current Article 47 - The fifth joke of Article 5335 shall be taken into consideration before the date of which the 30th Amendment shall be reconnected, in accordance with Articles 30 and third jokes of the Law, in order to determine when the pension or senior months of this month shall be reconnected. According to social security laws, pensions and original and financial debts on months determined to be paid illegally until the period of the period of the payment of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the subject of the period of the period of the Article 5335, are set according to the relevant provisions of Act 6111, if they apply within the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period. According to the subdivision of Article 4 (b) of Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act (5510), according to the subdivision (4) of the subdivision, the amount of those who are considered insured before 31/12/2000 will be accounted for by the amount of taxpayers due to 32 per cent of their primary earnings in the history of demand, and insurance will be accounted for if the insurance holder demands this law within six months of its execution date. If the person who is insured pays the full amount of debt that has been delivered to him within six months of the day of the notification, they will be considered an insurance period. If the amount of debt to the insured is not fully paid during this period, they are not assessed as an insurance period and the amount paid is returned according to Article 89 of this law." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0175par0115	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0174par0116	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0176par0117	Mr. President, often our friends bring up the chief. I, to be honest, I don't know why the problems with our chiefs, the problems of the country, of course, are often brought in because we all have problems, but the chiefs are not a problem within the Department of Labor and Social Security. In the past, yes, we've served our chiefs, and we've expressed our problems in Parliament. Now, you've got something wrong here...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0174par0118	Mr. Steel, please tell me if you agree first, and then explain...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0176par0119	Mr. President, I can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0174par0120	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0176par0121	I can't agree, but I'll tell you this: our mayors were getting $90 grants, and they were getting 90 dollars, and they were paying $105 BUG-KUR bonuses.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0177par0122	What now, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0176par0123	Today, our chiefs, look, I just told you, they look insured for a month for 15 days.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0178par0124	Twenty days, not fifteen days!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0176par0125	Now, our headman in the country pays 122 liras, gets a salary of 420 liras. Please, how can you compare?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0179par0126	There's not only the rural chief, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0180par0127	You've built 16,000 villages!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0181par0128	Look, you picked up the one in the village, he's paying the same in the city!
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0182par0129	We can't agree, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0184par0133	Motive.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0134	I'm reading the reason: There are many tradesmen and artists who have been forced out of the system even though they are unable to make use of these arrangements for economic improbability, economic crises and other reasons, or restructure their debt, although they are not able to regularly pay their payments. Our taxpayers and artists, before 2000, can't run their time on insurance. Therefore, it is imperative that those with tax terms before 31/12/2000 should be considered a period of insurance, and that all of those times should be allowed to be borrowed. With the restructuring of some of the proceeds dated 25/02/2011 and 6111 and the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance and Some Other Laws and Laws, there is no regulation on the matter, and the expected tradesmen and artists have been greatly disappointed. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 12th article is accepted. Members of parliament, there are now 3 motions for the violation of new substances, including a temporary clause, following the existing 12th amendment of the bill. As you know, the proposed bill or proposal is the sentence of the Fourth Amendment of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not appear in the commission text of the law, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the motions which the commission has only attended. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the meeting of a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. Therefore, I'm going to read the motion and ask the commission, and if the commission joins the motion, most of the time, with 21 members, I'm going to discuss the motion as a new clause. If the commission doesn't agree, I'll simply dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added after Article 12 to the Common Law Bill 370 and that other substances be identified accordingly. Minister of Labor and Social Security "The table, which is included in the second part of Article 40 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 13/5/2006, is added to the table in its second joke; the "half of these times" in its third joke has been added to the term "not to exceed three years" (not to be over three years); for those found at number 18) all of them have been changed half for others" (18) and added to the "properformance states" (18) to the fourth joke. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0185par0153	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0154	Now, I'm going to open this up as a new item. Anybody want a word? No. I submit to your votes this new application of substance: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. A new substance has been added to the bill. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the following item be added to the current 370 Orders Numbered Bill. Minister of Labor and Social Security Article 14: 5510 is added to the following temporary clause to the Law. "Employment bonuses due to additional monthly bonus and service certificate due to the fiscal service hike. Interim Article 48-08 and the period of the period of the period of which this clause was followed by the period of the period of its implementation of the period of October 2008, the administrative fine shall not be imposed if the Law shall be issued within three months of the date of this clause, in accordance with the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the Article 5510 and the period of the term of the term of the actual service. As of the period of the period, which follows the release of this item, the insurance policy will not be charged with delays and delays if it is applied with documents requested by the institution within three months of the period and is paid the price of the actual service increase in six months." Is the commission in favor of the motion with the majority?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0186par0169	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0170	I'm opening a meeting as a new item. Any word requests? No. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So a new interim material was developed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 370 Original No. We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the Lu Bill. Mustafa Elitaş Fahrettin Poyraz Enver Yilmaz Nevzat Pakdil Osman Boyraz Ömer Faruk Öz Mehmet Doğan Kubat İsmail Tamer The following joke was added after the third joke of Article 15-31/5/2006 and Article 38 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 38. "As of the date of which this joke has entered into effect, it is not required for those who have been in charge of membership in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be on the basis of the first joke (a) or (b) of the 4th Article of the Law, to cut their monthly monthly wages and to be paid in accordance with Article 43 of this law, to be on the basis of an insurance policy claim, and to be on the basis of a pension. In the event of their application, the first joke (a) or (b) of the 4th article of the Law, which follows the date of which this joke has entered into effect, is reconnected by raising the monthly monthly monthly months of this Law, which are in the framework of the verses of the 4th Amendment (a) or (b). Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0187par0186	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0187	I'm bringing in a new item. Any word requests? No. I move to take a vote: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So a new substance was developed. Yes, so the current text of the bill is added to the new 3 articles. During the writing of the law, these substances will be added and other matter numbers will be identified. We continue our talks through the existing articles in the Commission Report. There are no motions on Article 13. I submit to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... Article 13 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 14. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law bill to change some Laws by Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 370. "The following temporary clause is added to Article 14-5648. As of temporary Article 2-31/12/2012, the contract of non-renewal personnel from those employed under the fourth joke of Article 14 in the institution has been renewed as of 01/01/2013, without further processing, due to failure to meet the requirement for language competence. It is imperative that personnel whose contract has been renewed and unable to meet the requirement for language competence meet this condition until 31/12/2013. The agreements of those who do not submit the certificate of language competence specified in the fourth joke of the 14th article are not renewed until the date mentioned." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the 14th Amendment bill be removed from the draft by Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 370. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Izzet Cetin Bornt Kuşoğlu Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0188par0210	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0211	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0189par0212	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0213	Is there anyone to talk to? No. Even if the length of the foreign language is extended before, those who fail to provide it will expect an extension again, even if the deadline is extended. In the institution, it would be more appropriate for those who know foreign languages to work at the proper level of work. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 14 of the Law bill to change some Laws by Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 370. "The following temporary clause is added to Article 14-5648. As of temporary Article 2-31/12/2012, the contract of non-renewal personnel from those employed under the fourth joke of Article 14 in the institution has been renewed as of 01/01/2013, without further processing, due to failure to meet the requirement for language competence. It is imperative that personnel whose contract has been renewed and unable to meet the requirement for language competence meet this condition until 31/12/2013. The agreements of those who do not submit the certificate of language competence specified in the fourth joke of the 14th article are not renewed until the date mentioned." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0190par0226	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0227	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0191par0228	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0229	I'm reading the reason: It is important that the Agricultural and Rural Development Foundation does not have any problems in the process of accretion and that it does not lose its trained, qualified staff. Therefore, the proposed amendment proposal is being made and the deadline will be extended for the last time. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Motion accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th amendments of the 370 Numbered Bill be changed in the following way. The second joke in Article 15 - 18/10/2012 of Unions No. 6356 and Article 6 of the Common Business Contract Act has been changed as follows. (2) The demands of the labour unions, established up to 15/9/2012 and member of the Economic Social Council, from the date of this law to the time of the January 2013 statistics published, are concluded by the Ministry, according to the terms of the first joke of Article 41, in which the business or business majority is part of Article 41. (5) The principle of at least 3 per cent members in the business of Articles One and Fifth and Articles 43 in the second and fourth jokes of Articles 43 depends on confederation members of the Economic Social Council, and according to Article 4 of this law, the addition is one per cent in a thousand, five/7/07/2018, from trade unions on the board of Level 1 to the 60th Article of the Common Unions Act. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Demir Steel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0192par0245	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0246	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0193par0247	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0194par0248	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0249	I'm reading the reason: The aim is to resolve the reverse in the rights of labour unions, which are restricted by the new law, in favour of workers. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit Article 15 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 15 is accepted. Now, there are two proposals for new substance violations, including one of the interim substances. The way I just did it, I'm going to do the same thing with these new materials. I'm going to read the first motion on the new substance requirement: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the following item be added to the current Law Bill 370 rows. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Mehmet Shandır Mesut Dedeoğlu The second joke (b) of Article 1 of Article 18 (b) of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, dated 16 - 31/5/2006, has been changed as follows. B) was the first joke of Article 4 (a) with (b) the sub-bendi (1) and (2), and for each day, the third day of temporary unemployment, as long as the health insurance providers are unable to function due to illness, as long as the short-term insurance premium has been reported in the year before the start of unemployment. According to the first joke of the 4th article (b) bendi (3) and (4) the insurance-insuranced subnets of the 4th article are paid to those who are considered to be given a work accident or a temporary disability allowance in the form of vocational illness or as a motherhood, as long as all debts related to premiums and premiums are paid during treatment or after treatment are paid as a condition of this treatment. However, according to the first joke (c) of this clause, there is no prenatal or postpartum conditions for treatment by lying down so that the temporary incapacity allowance can be paid for when it does not work." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0195par0268	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0269	Since the commission failed to participate in the motion with a majority, I'm dismissing the motion. I'm going to read the motion on the new interim clause: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the following temporary materials to be added after Article 15 of the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 370. Temporary Article 1- People who have reached the age of pension but who have failed to complete their bonus-day payments are allowed to calculate premiums and pay people to earn pensions. For those who are subject to the 5362 Law, it is considered a one-time-only bonus for retirement. The bonuses of tradesmen and artists who couldn't count their bonuses before 2000 are considered a one-time option. In the first three months when the premium payments are calculated, payments are paid to earn pensions. Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Demir Steel Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0196par0281	We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0282	Since the commission could not participate in the motion with the absolute majority, I am removing the motion demanding a new interim clause violation from the process. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 16 of the current 370 Orders Numbered Legislature be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Ramazan Can Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı Recep Special Omar Faruk Öz Adem Dessert Mehmet Doğan Kubat Durdu Mehmet Kastal Enver Yılmaz A) on the date of its release from Article 7 1/6/2012, B) On 9th, 10th and 11th articles, 1/9/2013, C) In the date of its release, the 15th article is valid from the beginning of October 2008, In the date of his release of other substances, It'll take effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0197par0299	Mr. President, we do appreciate it, but I'd like to make a point. I would like to request that the number of items issued in this motion be taken as item numbers, which have been identified because of the addition of new substances to the bill. For example, the 15th article was the 13th article in which we accepted it, but when it is identified here, it corresponds to the 15th article.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0300	Yes, does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0198par0301	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0183par0302	You agree. Mr. Elitaş, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0199par0304	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're now discussing the amendment to the Social Insurance Act, the bill, the proposal, the final clause, the activation clause. We planned to draft this bill yesterday, but we did it today to express that a valuable congressman friend of ours, today, is not to be changed in the middle of the night about some of the motions that we're putting in, that there should be no speculation about this in public. In the framework of our talks with political party groups, the fact that lawmakers have been eliminated in 2008 along with the law that had previously been passed... on the other hand, as you know today, our dear friends have visited all members of the press. In view of the January 10th Day of Workers' Journalists, during our Prime Minister's budget talks, our fellow journalists wished to correct this after expressing that they had been wronged in the process of wearout. In what circumstances, under what procedures, is this the way it is, and why it is formed, the Prime Minister said. So we've done our research, we've done a 90-day share of the law that we've done with lawmakers in 2008, the 90-day loss of lawmakers for each year, the 90-day share of our journalist friends, who actually carry a yellow press card, and the 90-day share of our fellow journalists each year, so we've just brought in an arrangement that existed in the previous law. The heart would wish that all political parties would sign it and offer their support, their reinforcements. But they made a principle decision, and they voted for it. Because every member of the Turkish Grand National Assembly will benefit from our arrangement with these MPs. So we'll get 90 days of wear and tear every year. The situation with the non-retired lawmakers... in the second incident, you know, among our fellow lawmakers, members of parliament, there was a huge injustice to their retirement, working according to Law No. 1475 or Law No. 657, and working according to 657 or 1475. Let's say that the people who work as government officials get a pension from the moment they become lawmakers. But our fellow lawmakers, who were subject to occupational law number 1475, who were subject to the law at the time, which we could call 5510, had to spend two years of practice, and they had to pay a bonus. And that was so unfair. He was treated as a stepchild, working according to 1475. According to 1475, our fellow lawmakers, or lawmakers, who worked according to the Law of CUG-KUR, worked for years in the private sector, paid an insurance premium, paid taxes; and our friends who worked according to the BUG-KUR, worked for a living, paid BUG-KUR, and paid taxes. Our friends, along with this legal arrangement, will have the same rights to state officials from the moment they become lawmakers. When we became lawmakers in 2002, we waited two years for the period. We've waited two years for the cycle, but from now on...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0200par0307	You'll have to wait two years again.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0199par0308	Mr. Secretary may feel the need to make a correction in our statement. Dear friends, look, right now we've eliminated a difference between our friends in the 657, our friends in law enforcement, 1475, or our fellow lawmakers. What I've just said is that we have now allowed our young congressman friends to regain their past acquired rights, which we have benefited from, which others have benefited from, but have not been able to benefit from within the framework of the law in 2008. I'd like to thank my fellow lawmakers for supporting this issue, my dear congressman friends who signed the group proposal and the motion. If you're going to take something in politics, you're going to get it loud and clear. The AK PARTY Group... thank you to our Prime Minister from here, who is currently in Senegal. We, along with all the political party groups, wished to do so with a joint signature, but for different reasons, I don't engage in criticism -- it wasn't signed. We had a phone call with our Prime Minister today. He said right? He said right, Mr. Prime Minister. I said... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0201par0315	Here you go, finish what you said.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0199par0316	This is the right to eliminate an inequality between lawmakers. If you believe in it, if our fellow lawmakers see it this way, then take it out as an AK PARTI group, as part of our promise to our fellow journalists on December 20th. I have a debt of gratitude to our esteemed Prime Minister, who is abroad, on behalf of the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We signed up for this, and I put my faith in it. The regulations on the rights of lawmakers are risky jobs. When I have a problem with everyone, you did it quickly, without speaking, without saying, to solve your problem. But those who can't protect their own existence, their own affairs, their own resources, can't protect their dignity. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We give everything to everyone in the arrangements that have been made so far... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me again, my final sentence.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0202par0321	Final sentence, please, complete.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0199par0322	That's my last sentence. It's the right to give everyone everything, but it's not fair that the lawmakers follow their rights, unfortunately, that's what it's all about. As Deputy President of the EC PARTY, I am also happy and proud to sign these motions today under the power vested in me by our Group President, our Prime Minister, in order to uphold the rights of our fellow MPs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0203par0327	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0204par0330	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0203par0331	You have a brief explanation. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0204par0333	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, as the 24th term began with the arrangement, as public officials following the June 12th elections, our friends who came here retired, our friends who came as MPs earned the status of retirement, but our fellow lawmakers, who came here as members of the SEC and CUG-KUR, did not win the parliamentary pension status here. We said to them: "Wait two years, then you will win." But it was not proper for the SSC, BUG-KUR, to combine all the inequalities in the middle, to apply it to the lawmakers to cause a separation. Two years again... in the 25th term, he will become a deputy, our future friends, and the MP will be able to earn his pension in two years. But we've brought the SEC and the BUG-KUR, and the Retired Covenant, an arrangement for the disparaging of this period of inequality. After that, equality became an arrangement that eliminated inequality in the 24th term. Thus, friends who have come here to deserve retirement will be entitled to the national pension status as soon as it becomes legal, even though they are from the USSR, and from the BUG-KUR. I wish him well.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0203par0335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There's a motion on Article 17 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is carried out by the Council of Ministers of the 17th Amendment. We request that it be changed. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0205par0344	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0203par0345	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0206par0346	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0203par0347	Mr. Wolf, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0207par0348	Mr. President, Congressmans, Article 17 of the Act. Of course, there's a law, and it's about the implementation of the law, which is about the future, but what we're doing today is a law that is set up to correct all wrongs in the past. So as long as we don't operate the legislative technique properly, we're going to have to make a lot of changes in Law 5510. We changed the law in 2008, we changed it in 2010, we changed it in 2012, and now we're changing it again. We're going to change the application for the fourth joke of the 14th article a year later, because it looks like it's a substance designed to promote agricultural development with the European Union, and it's imperative that people working here know a foreign language, but for eight years, we've been putting it off for these people to learn foreign languages. Thus, by the end of 2013, this clause will have to be changed again, and with that change, Law number 5510 will once again come before us. Is this the only one he'll come with? He's not coming. We couldn't fix the inequality between pensioners, just like we couldn't fix the inequality between employees. Also, there are still shortcomings in Turkey's pension of millions of people living abroad, there are still mistakes, there are differences in their retirement practice, there are also differences in retirement; we have not made an effort to correct it. It's not an adjustment to the elderly, we haven't been able to fix it, but this gap is waiting, and it's going to have to be fixed. We have to prepare the law for the future, for future practices, and in doing so, we will, of course, never ignore or even forget the principle of equality of the Constitution. We make mistakes because we make laws when we make them, without paying attention to them, suddenly at night, with new motions, where no one is prepared, no one is working, we make mistakes, we make flaws. We need to act on consciousness that there's no need to rush into this. Since we're going to make a law, the law should take care of all the problems in that area, eliminate them all. Now, have the changes we made in Law 5510 eliminated all the shortcomings and complaints in this area? No, he didn't. Has he lifted the arrangement for the mayors? He didn't. Has the change in Law No. 5648 of agricultural development eliminated all complaints in this area? He didn't either. That's why this law will go on, but we'll all see the complaints of this law again. I, with these feelings, salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0208par0356	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 17 is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The talks of the bill are complete, but before voting, Ankara MP Izzet Cetin is opposed to specifying the color of the vote. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0209par0362	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Law 5510, as my speaker friend has just mentioned, is a law that is really worn out very quickly. He's made a lot of changes, and he lacks a lot of them. It is our duty to complete them and to make a social law in accordance with the understanding of the social state after they have completed their shortcomings. Dear friends, while this law has become a bag of laws, our citizen has just faxed over a letter to Mr. Secretary's information after listening to our talks about the essence of the law. He says: "I've read in newspapers, and I've heard your statement about the fact that 600,000 people are not working even though they're retired. I want you to know how I feel about this. The bottom line is that 90 percent of these 600,000 pensioners still don't work. These seem to still work because their companies, unfortunately, have abandoned resensals, and their companies can't afford tax debt, trade room debt, trade union debt, and liquidation costs. In 2012, with a change in the Turkish Trade Law, the situation was referred to the Minister of Labor by members of the Chamber of Financial Advisors and Accounters to the Minister of Labor, and asked to facilitate these liquidations, Mr. Minister was informed of this, but instead of adding a clause to the law, the liquidation was eased, but instead of implementing it, Mr. Minister has examined the situation of pensioners in this situation, and has taken off loans. My wife and I are tired of this debt, and since we're retired from BUG-KUR, we're not able to liquidate our company, 15 percent of our support is cut off, and I paid 90 billion performances last year. Now, dear friends, look, we're making a law, we're victimizing the citizen. We're breaking the law, or we're talking about a citizen's victim, we're going after him, like a detective. So that's not the law that's done, and that's really what I'm giving all of you respect for our country and its citizens, to prepare for our country with its power, with its opposition, to strengthen the economic and social position of individuals and families after that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit05spe0210par0368	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I submit the entire bill to your votes: Those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legalized. I wish him well. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-10sit06spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, in the 5th place, we will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Egyptian Arab Republic's Government in the field of Education Co-operation, where it is appropriate to ratify the Covenant Act and the Foreign Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 291 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm reading article 1. CONTROLATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND ACTIVITY REPUBLICITY IN THE ACTIVITY OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on September 13, 2011 in Cairo. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No promises. (x) 291 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be by electronic device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt under open vote to ratify the Covenant of Education Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Egypt: ▪ Number of votes used: 206 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine between the Ministry of Plant Protection and the Co-operation Agreement on Plant Quarantine. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 309 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The discussion on the entire bill is complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the government of the Republic of Turkey, the defence of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the United States is under way to ensure that the defence of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the United States will be established. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Co-operation between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers between Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine Areas, signed in Ankara on December 22, 2011, has been approved. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 309 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on Article 2? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... the 2nd article is accepted. I'm having them read the third article. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Vocabulary? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Ministers between the Ukrainian Cabinet of Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine Co-operation Agreement Approved: [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 7th in the Union between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Lebanon, where it is appropriate to ratify the Partnership Agreement establishing a Free Trade Area between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Lebanon. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 196 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 196 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTROL OF THE REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY WITH THE REPUBLIC REPLICATION IS CONTROL TO CONTROL THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTACT OF SERBEST TRACATION The approval of the Association Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Lebanon, which was signed in Beirut on 24 November 2010, was approved. No promises. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) is authorized by the Ba-kans Council to approve changes related to the supplements of the agreement. No promises. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. No promises. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No promises. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Partnership Agreement for Free Trade Between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Lebanon: ▪ Number of votes used: 211 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, ranked 8th, in accordance with the approval of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Morityus. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 195 rows. He doesn't want a word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF SERBEST TRACY WITH TURKEY REPUBLICS REPLICATION REPLICATION Article 1-1 (1) was approved of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Mauritius signed in İstanbul on 9 September 2011. No promises. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the supplements of the agreement. No promises. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 3- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it is in effect. No promises. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 4- (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No promises. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. (x) 195 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] It is a clear vote that the approval of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Mauritius is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 9th place, in accordance with the Law Charter and Foreign Affairs Report, which provides the approval of the Framework Agreement establishing a Free Trade Area between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Korea. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 363 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's about the right of the law that it's the right to be understood in terms of freedom of order and the Republic of Turkey. Article 1-1 (1) was adopted on August 1, 2012 in Ankara, and the approval of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Korea. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 2- (1) This goes into effect in the history of Law publication. Vocabulary? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 363 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Vocabulary? No. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Korea: ▪ Number of votes used: 207 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 10th place between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Korea, in accordance with the Agreement on Trade. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 364 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF CONTROLATION WITH TURKEY REPUBLIC REPUBLIC MADDE 1-1 (1) was approved on 1 August 2012 between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Korea. There's no demand for word on matter. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 364 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the supplements of the agreement. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... Article 3 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Financial Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Korea: ▪ Number of votes used: 203 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 91, which is ranked in the 11th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 152, ranked 12th. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 286, ranked 13th. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bill 72, ranked 14th. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Republic of Zambia in accordance with the Dair Legislature Charter, which is ranked in the 15th place, and the Foreign Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 306 rows. A request for word on the entire bill? There isn't. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE CONTACT OF THE ECONOMIC PRODUCTION OF TRACY AND ECONOMIC PRODUCTION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Republic of Zambia, which was signed in Geneva on 15 December 2011. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for words. (x) 306 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for words. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the vote should be by electronic device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the adoption of the Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Zambia: [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Fatih Şahin So the bill is accepted and legalized. In the 16th place, we will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is in place between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Slovakia, confirming the Agreement on Investments' Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Thus, on Tuesday (January 15th, 2013), it is 15 p.m., to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals by verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
