tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer, who asked for the appointment of the Battle Week of Cancer.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are celebrated as Cancer Week from April 1st to April 7th. Because of Cancer Week, I have made a commitment to create awareness of cancer disease, to create this consciousness. I salute the High Council. I also extend my love to autism patients for April 2nd Autism Day. Dear lawmakers, cancer is a very important disease of our age. Cancer cells become an important disease by multiplying in the body uncontrollably and jumping into other organs and affecting our lives. Today, in every country at every age, the problem of cancer in a global problem is a major public health problem in the world, regardless of the geographical limit, social status, and income situation. The World Health Organization is a major factor in which 12.7 million people get cancer each year and 7.6 million people die from cancer. In Turkey, there is the fact that between 150,000 and 175 thousand people have cancers, and there are about 100,000 deaths. Of the 100,000 men in Turkey, 280 have lost their lives and 172 have died from various cancers from 100,000 women. Cancers can be two ways in the body. It can be cancer in particular, it can be a gender and family story, and different factors and environmental factors can be among the factors that cause cancer. Cigarettes, alcohol, ionized radiation, ultraviolet rays, air pollution, chemical factors are the most important factors that cause cancer. If we can prevent such factors as protection, we can eliminate the risk of cancer in Turkey and around one-third of the world. According to Health Ministry data, the most common forms of cancer in our country are lung cancers, and then prostate, bladder, large intestines, stomach, throat cancers, pancreatic cancer, thyroid cancer, and colon cancer are an important factor. The most important thing about cancer in Turkey is that cancer patients are treated for free. This is a very important matter. This situation in the world's particular area of treatment has been met by Turkey for free. About a third of the budget for the Ministry of Health is earmarked for cancer patients. A national factor has been introduced in the anti-cancer program. In Turkey to prevent cancer... first, the registration system -- it was not used to exist, it was brought in -- is among the major factors, especially as an area, a screening area, and as a treatment area. The issue of the fight against cancer was also started in 2008, which was originally taken as 12 but has been growing in recent years. Also, cancer protection, cancer maker -- the removal of the factors I just mentioned -- is very important. A remarkable event in our country is the use of cigarettes, the work of tobacco control. It is a proud event for Turkey that we are among the countries that best apply the MPOWER strategy. In 2010 to 2011, when we look around the world at the fight against tobacco, we also need to celebrate our first - ranked country. In the 81 provinces of our country, cancers established in each province opened early detection and training centres, such as KETEM. They control about all patients in 81 provinces. Cervical cancer can be treated for the most important cancers. The treatment and palliative care of cancer is important. With patient responsibility and awareness, I want to keep cancer importantly on the agenda of Turkey and draw your attention. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, various action plans have been decided at the 10th City Councils of Turkey platform meeting held in Burhaniye on March 30 to 31st to prevent mining debris and natural destruction in Madra and Kazdağ. No to the thalana in Madra and Kazdağ, the decision has been made to prepare the banners and to make a joint press release through a single text on the same day and at the same time across the country, to be determined by the executive board in the date of the statement and the date of the statement. Dear lawmakers, the Kazdağs are our national wealth. The underground mineral reserves in the Kazdağs are of no value compared to the above-ground wealth. The Kazdağs are the clean, reliable water source of the region's people. It is an important gene center with a significant number of endemic plants and animals in its system. History is a source of culture and mythology. Homer's sagas describe the culture, civilization of this land. It's an area where the world's finest fruits and vegetables grow. It's one of the most important milk and meat production centers in our country. It's one of the most unique forests of our country, and its skirts are decorated with olive trees. In 12/03/1993, the decision 93/4243 was designated as a national park in the district of Kazdağı, within the district of Edremit in Balıkesir Province. There are 2,580,000 acres of forest land in what we call the Kazdağs. An area of 214,630 acres in the Edremit district alone, and a 2400-acre site of Kazdagı National Park and Kazdakı Originary Nature Protection Area have been registered in a large geography. However, the Kazdes form a integrity due to their ecological properties. It is also seen as a huge obligation to include the areas of the Kazdağı National Park and its organic integrity within the borders of the region of Çanakkale and Balıkesir, considered an important plant area in the European Plant Union. It has been observed in the search for mines in the Kazdağs that many of them have been allowed to search for mines and still have been destroyed by the environment and natural tissue and that five mining license zones have been partially attempted by Minister of Energy and Resources Mr. Taner Yildiz -- according to the response given -- by the local parking area. There are 61 licenses around the Kazdağs. The answer has been given. It is not possible to understand the short-term income from searching and mining to harm the environment, and to be granted a mining and subtraction license, such as delivering cheese bread and cheese, given the damage done to the long-term environment, human and animal health. In the long term, mining companies have been enriched, the natural resources of the region have been exhausted, leaving the contaminated, destroyed nature. The foreign corporations who destroy our own lives, our air, our water, our land, our animals, our people, never own our nature unless they own it. As a state policy, the priority should be human and environmental health and protection. Unfortunately, as a state policy, the priority is the profit of mining companies. Fire suppression causes more damage to the area than fire, while the above-ground wealth in the Kazdağs is being destroyed by fires. There was a fire in the Kazdağs -- you know, all of you -- in September. And 500 hectares of forest -- unfortunately, the fire suppression method has long-termly reached the point where it would damage the soil, water, animal and human health. The fire that started in the Kazdağs was extinguished -- as the minister said -- the helicopters are there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...was used to take water from nearby water sources in the mines' collapse pools, which poses serious dangers. Thank you all very much. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement is from Antalya MP Mehmet Günal, who wants to talk about the opening of the tourist season and the problems of the tourism sector.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My dear friends, I wish you the best of the new season of tourism in our country, where our constituency is heavy. With April, there are facilities that are even faster open, but all of our facilities are slowly opening this week. So, on this occasion, our friends, along with Mr. President, expressed once again the problems of the industry during the talks at Antalya. And I will, on this occasion, present to you both with a proposal of law and a motion to investigate in the next few days, but with this occasion, I wish this season good fortune to the tourism industry, to our country's economy and to our businessmen, to the tourists. Of course, I have to point out that while I'm wishing for it, the problems are going on, and the reason I'm taking today's promise is to find a solution to these problems as soon as possible. In particular, beyond our contact this week, during our visit abroad two weeks ago, I really think it should be reconsidered when we hear about the price our friends paid for the hotel. Let me put it this way: at the price we paid for one night in that country, there's a week's tour in Turkey, including the plane, so I'm just telling you how desperate the job is. So we have -- our basic problem -- we have a coordination problem, we have a problem with pricing, supply demand planning. Unfortunately, in the process, Mr. Günay has arrived, he's smiling, but our framework law still hasn't been passed, and I've reminded him many times. Now, on behalf of the industry, on behalf of our investors there, I remind our new Minister once again that he has to take care of this matter, especially in the first place. During our meeting with our fellow MPs, Antalya, we agreed to take this request with us, take the sector representatives with us. Hopefully that'll happen in the next few days. In my speech last night, I also mentioned that instead of infertile political disputes, we need to prioritize our country's economic, social problems. This is one of the priority areas. Why? We talked about growing up, and it came in yesterday, and we did it. They said, "Well, we did it." Why? Cari's on the rise. Here's what the ratings say, that's what they say, but we can't take a major measure of tourism revenues, which is our most important not to look at, and then we show off that we're getting more tourists. However, we need to increase the revenue of tourism per capita. But if we don't have a supply policy, we're doing something about demand, destination, but if there's a lack of coordination, we don't get the income we deserve, that's the problem. The problem is, what we're pointing out here isn't to blame anyone, but the problems ahead of us need to be resolved quickly, dear friends. Because there are problems with the Tourism Incentivism Act, there are problems with the regulations, there are problems with the Coastal Law, there are regulations, there are economic problems. But, first of all, they have another suggestion that the sector employees, within the law proposal, hopefully... or in the next law on the study, we'll consider it with you, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a whole, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact. Here they say there is no union in the application of working life, there is no dissolution in the controls. Problems with overtime, problems with insurance premiums, problems with permits. Most importantly, most of our hotels stay closed during the winter season. Their demands, during these studies, at least during that five-month closed season, are of the state's interest in promoting employment, and I think we need to rethink the Tourism Instrument Act, which is a little bit behind schedule. With the tourist framework law, I think we need to establish a fundamental law that involves all these issues. Otherwise, if we solve these problems with working life, there's also a problem with permits for foreigners to work; let's put them on a basis, let's discuss this together, let's let the representatives of the industry participate. I would like to take this opportunity to reassess our proposal to set up a research commission in the coming days as a matter of over-party. Hopefully, instead of dealing with different methods of looking for money from outside -- no, not a rent certificate -- come here, let's take what we have, let's sell our businesses at the price we deserve, let's make that profit together. Again, I wish the tourist season was a good season, a season to solve problems, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's our children who have the assurance and ownership of the future. The future of societies that cannot protect or protect their children is also at stake. One of the worst forms of child abuse, sexual abuse and abuse, has been brought up every day in recent years in a new way. The work of civil society organisations, health organizations, universities and bar-building child welfare units on the issues of harassment, negligence and abuse is important to draw attention to. All over the world, children are heavily surrounded. Even if some of the local features are local, the problem is not unique to Turkey. Research in various parts of the world shows that all children experience physical, sexual or emotional violence and abuse in their homes, schools, and communities in which they live. The country is about 31.1 per cent of our population. Studies have found that between 4 per cent and 30 per cent of children have been sexually abused. 70 percent of children who are sexually abused are also under 10 years of age. The physical, sexual, or emotional abuse of children can cause psychological and physical trauma, life-long injuries, even deaths. It can cause serious physical health problems and psychological problems that cannot be cured for the rest of their lives. Since there is not enough data in our country, it is difficult to comment on the actual size of the issue. In particular, the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights requires that the public, state officials, security officials, social services, education and health sectors handle the ongoing work of information and awareness on issues organised in the Children's Sales, Children's Fuhşü and Children's Porn Plus Protocol. There must be a detailed state policy on issues and events that can affect children's exposure and their futures. Where is our country on this, and what are the studies that have been done so far? So far, what studies have been conducted in violence, sexual harassment and abuse of children, first to parents and other family members, and in what institutions for the general public? Are there plans for this? In such matters, what institutions and organizations and what officials are active in our country? How are the trainings provided by those who do or do such work? What research has been done so far to prepare action plans for these matters? In particular, what arrangements have been made in forensic institutions and what have been implemented so far, so that there will be no further disturbances regarding forensic services and their reports? In the penal code, what are the studies of the creation of more deterrents by reviewing the matter related to these issues? What is the point of the creation of the institutional structure in order to take the necessary measures for children who need special protection because of the incident? In our country, social workers (social workers) and psychologists are not enough. What has been done in these areas of work (especially on this subject) to provide social worker and psychologist employment and to prevent different non-related trade groups from being employed in these areas? We respectfully present the need for a parliamentary investigation under the 98th, 104th and 105th Amendment clauses of the Constitution, in order to provide light for the taking of necessary measures and establishing a social policy, under the investigation of violence, sexual harassment and abuse against children. [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Malatya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 12) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 19) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thousands of patients in our country are dying of terminal blood cancer, or are waiting to die because they are not found to give. The cancer of the blood is a cancer of bone marrow, a disease in the bone marrow that causes the genetic structure of the blood-producing mother stem cell and the production of blood cells out of control, causing excess buildup in the body. Bone marrow cancer, often caused by environmental factors such as chemical matter, radiation, some viruses, is certainly not an hereditary or hereditary disease caused by the decay of the genes. The treatment of a patient with bone marrow cancer has been more difficult than other cancers. In particular, in the treatment of adult patients, bone marrow is required to prevent repeated disease. In our country, only one of 100 patients can receive a bone marrow transplant. America is transferring from 100 patients to 84, Germany to 81. Sadly, there is not enough volunteer donors in Turkey, but 99 of the 100 patients die each year due to the lack of proper tissue. One of the main reasons why there are few bone marrow transplants in Turkey is that there are only two bone marrow banks in our country, and the other is that there are few volunteers applying to these banks. Therefore, it is of great importance to be willing to give and work to increase the number of donors to reduce the deaths associated with bone marrow cancer. To minimize deaths, to increase awareness of bone marrow cancer and bone marrow transplants, projects must be developed. Such an important health issue is not appropriate in Turkey's 2012, when the state's relevant institutions are trying to be recognized through social media by our citizens. Therefore, any positive step after this must be taken without delay, thinking that there will be hope for a patient's struggle. It must not be forgotten that there is no guarantee that no one will suffer from bone marrow cancer. In order to determine the shortcomings of bone marrow transplants and to increase the number of voluntary donors vital to bone marrow cancer and to minimize the number of patients who have lost their lives because they could not be transferred, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104,5, according to Articles 104, and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 9) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 18) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The mining industry is an industry that is extremely dangerous to human life, which contains countless risks. The problems of mine workers who work in mining businesses hundreds of feet below the ground, trying to bring home their children, their children, are huge. At the very beginning of their problems, occupational health and occupational security comes, and they are victims of low wages and long pensions. Because of privatisations in coal mining, jobs have been shifted to private sectors, workers are forced to work under low wages and heavy working conditions, without measures for health and job safety. They work face-to-face with no light, no air, no sun, hundreds of feet below the ground. Their commitment to life is thinner than hair. Because of the difficulty of working conditions, bread is also far from the lion's mouth. Almost everyone who works in this sector soon succumbs to occupational illness. There aren't enough workers who don't have lung cancer or tuberculosis while they're working. In all these negative working conditions, it is necessary to make pensions more flexible because of the difficult working conditions of mining workers who struggle for halal gain by sweating hundreds of feet below the ground. Two hours must be found in that mine to understand how the workers, manager and technical staff who work in coal mines earn legitimate money and how hard it is to shake a pick in dark, narrow areas with their heads on a head eight hours a day. The difficulty of the working conditions of the miners is that the non-employees' pension provisions prevent them from working in the workplace, frighten them, make them nervous, and many workers think about quitting their jobs or their relatives, their families don't want them to work in this business. As he left his home every day, it became almost impossible for mining workers, who went to work with their relatives, fearing that they might never come out of the furnace where he landed every day, to retire in these difficult working conditions. It is almost impossible for them to complete their retirement conditions on such unsecured conditions. In order for them to retire, the age level, the amount of insurance and the number of premium paydays must be rearranged in this profession in favour of mining workers who are facing death. For these reasons, I would like to order the opening of Parliamental investigations under Articles 104, 105, and Article 108 of the Constitution, in order that the conditions of the pensioners' pensions be determined and the measures needed to be taken at once, in order to be taken in their favor. 13.02.2012 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 8) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0008par0247	Mr. President, I have a request, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0007par0248	Yes, Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0008par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, in our group meeting room, we had people, families, representing European Turks from Germany, from Europe. Our families have a flag when they enter the House. Here, whether or not this flag is drawn or not... put it in the bag, which has been performed in many different ways, and don't open it. I believe executives have an approach to the use of the Turkish flag as a provocation, as a means of provocation. The Turkish flag is a flag that we all, together, will proudly carry. So I don't know if the Parliament's administration has given this order about the Turkish flag, which is in the hands of our citizens who have entered the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the Turkish flag is the honor and honor of all of us. I took it upon myself to give the proper warning. In that sense, the Turkish flag is not just a symbol of our presence, but of our sovereignty, of our existence, where everyone can carry it with pride everywhere, and not afraid to carry it. I'd like to remind you of it this way, through you again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0009par0254	Thank you, Mr. Vural, we're going to be involved, you should know that. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0010par0256	Mr. President, I'd like a brief word from my position according to Article 60.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0009par0257	Mr. Young, there is no subject discussed. Then, you know, you're the master, you taught us that, so please don't do the opposite of what you've taught us. You know I only promise to the members of the group. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly When the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 03/04/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 02/04/2013, by Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and 23 MPs, the parliamentary research proposal for Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to assess the frost-related damage of its producers and to determine measures to cover the damage of the producers has been submitted to 817 rows. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday (03/04/2013) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0011par0272	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear MPs, last week, on the night of March 18th, 19th, Marta, there was a frost disaster in Malatya, especially in the low altitude areas of Malatya, where our apricots were destroyed. In some areas, there are over 50 percent damage to some areas that have reached 90. In the past year, valuable lawmakers lost hope in 2013, along with the apricot manufacturer, who was condemned to be absent because of the failure of his apricot. On the night of March 18th, the fire was not just the apricots of Malatians, but the hope of the burning Malatians, the dream of the burning Malatians, the whole life of the burning Malatians. Thousands of manufacturers sold the apricot, which cost 2.5 to $3 last year, at $1.2.5 this year. That's why the apricot manufacturer was in trouble. He had already failed to pay off his debts of electricity, water, fertilizer, medicine, and diesel from 2012. It's been two or three years since the apricot was worth anything, and the manufacturer has no savings. Unfortunately, the only relationship the Malatian had with the government recently was the execution papers that came to his house. The Malatian manufacturer first met the courthouse during this period, and for the first time, the manufacturer, who was 60-70 years old, met for the first time with execution and executive counsel. I've been trying to hear the Malatians' voices from here for two years. From this bench, from this House, I'm trying to fulfill my duty to defend the rights of the Malatians. Dear lawmakers, look, the product we produce is no ordinary product. We try to announce the voice of Malatians who produce the most beautiful apricots in the world, who contribute the most to Turkey's national income in agriculture, who work with their children in summer and winter without saying, because this product contributes sometimes to the economy of Turkey at $300 million, sometimes $400 million. Malatya alone covers 80 per cent of the world's dry apricot production. So the Malatians grow a very important product in the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've come up with a lot of suggestions here for the value of the apricot. Perhaps I've spoken about this apricot in the House. Give me zero interest loans so the villagers don't fall into the hands of the loan shark. Give us a loan, not for free, not for free. I said, "Give us a loan." I said, "No one heard us." I said, interest has not been erased because no one is satisfied with the electricity institution that has been privatized in Malatya. I condemn this privatisation mentality from here once again. Dear friends, apricots aren't worth anything. Disperse apricots in schools, so that our children may be smarter instead of bad milk -- a product that increases apricot intelligence -- so that the soldiers may eat well. I said, "I'm afraid we haven't been able to make our voices heard. Dear friends, but I'm afraid we're still victimized. So our apricot, our manufacturer's condition, it's still not healed. As these practices were not enough at the end, recent practices were not enough, they also struck our apricots. The night of March 18th, 19th, Marta, our apricots were shot. Dear friends, I spoke from the stand last week with pictures of the situation in Malatya. Last weekend I visited Malatiah, and saw the central villages of Malatiah, and Darende, and Kuluncak, and Battalgazi, and in its place. I've seen it in its place, where the apricot has fallen. Unfortunately, in places with low altitude, our apricot -- as I say -- burned between 50% and 90%. Dear friends, the manufacturer, whether the apricot holds or doesn't, don't hit or don't, spends the same money on that product, so he gives it his medicine, gives it its fertilizer, spends the same labor, the same labor. Therefore, as for the apricot manufacturer, Don struck, and I won't spend it. There is no such thing, and I'm afraid he's doing the same. He's doing more damage because he's doing the same thing. I mean, it's a lot of money, no money. There's an institution called TARSIM about this. It's an epic institution, TARSIM. Dear MPs, Malatian manufacturer, unfortunately this TARSIM (TARSIM)'s system still doesn't understand the applications of TARSIM. TARSIM works, not how do I cover the damage of the manufacturer? How can I not take it? The manufacturer is both shot by TARSEM and shot by underwear, so the manufacturer is being damaged from everywhere, the valued lawmakers. Insurance for Don is like gambling, friends. This insurance for underwear is like gambling. Now, here's an example: you have a garden, you want insurance that year. They ask: 'Are you picking one of these flowers, underwear, or full?' You're playing Toto, insurance toto... in Malatya, this TARSIM system. And, dear friends, only 10 per cent of the Malatian manufacturer has been insured by TARSEM this year. Why? Because the prices in TARSIM are too high. Because he doesn't trust TARSIM. Because he's lived in practice over the years, and he doesn't trust TARSEM, and he can't get insurance because he doesn't trust him. Look, only about 6,000 people from over 50,000 manufacturers insured their product. Dear friends, they just got a call from the Malatians, saying that earlier in 2002, we were buying 2 liters of diesel with 1 kilo of apricots, and today we can't get 1 litre of diesel with 2 kilos of apricots. Again, why did the apricot, which cost 7-8 lira two years ago, fall to 2.5 lira this year? They say, "Why did it fall to 2.5 lira this year?" Dear friends, if no measures are taken, Malatya will not be able to produce. Look, in 2010, I think, there was a frosting incident, thanks to our Malatya MP Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who said that, for the first time, the damage was paid. However, for two years, both prices have been priced and applied, but no one's greeted the farmer, no one's asked about the farmer. Dear friends, there is a farmer in Malatya who hasn't sprayed his tree in two years. Look, it's a pain, but there's a farmer who hasn't sprayed his tree in two years. There are still farmers who can't water their trees. I say on the council stand, you've still condemned it to sewer water. I say, "You're lying." I was at Hatunsuyu last weekend, so I saw these practices with my own eyes. Dear friends, the manufacturer says, let's get rid of the apricots. Let's get rid of it. The Malatian shouts. Dear lawmakers, the Malatian sows apricots every year, sews apricots every year, unfortunately collecting debts. Now, dear friends, this product is not just a product, it's a product that, as I say, represents Turkey in the world. Exports are being made to more than 100 countries. The Malatian's voice, Malatian, Turkey, Turkey in particular -- from Venezuela to Russia, Russia to America, Canada to Canada -- is sold as the product of Turkey, but the Malatian contributes this much to you, the country's economy -- 100 to 200 million dollars a year, some more -- but it contributes to a multinational income, but it's unfortunately nothing that the Malatian has taken from the state. Dear lawmakers, there's a disproportionateity between what they've given and what they've taken. Malatian farmers are hardworking, Malatian farmers are loyal to their debt. I ask you, dear friends, to the consciences of all lawmakers here, to the consciences of all ruling and opposition parties: please hear the voice of the Malatian farmer, please.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0012par0292	Let them hear not only the Malatian, but all the farmers in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0011par0293	Please don't watch the drama that the Malatian farmer had, the apricot maker had. To your consciences, friends, I wish to have a hard-working, productive Malatian farmer with opposition to power.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0012par0294	Let them have farmers in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0011par0295	Look, about this, it has to be considered a disaster, the manufacturer's debts must be delayed, the interest must be paid off, Law 2090 must be run, support in the area given to the nut, and the state must establish an apricot administration, a base price, a freeze event, and manage problems by one hand. Dear friends, of course he must claim all the products, but I believe you will take care of the Malatian product. I'd like to ask all lawmakers to set up a commission on this matter, all MPs present at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With these feelings, I salute you with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0013par0299	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0014par0302	Fair doesn't speak against you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0015par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge against the Republican People's Party's Parliament's motion to investigate, but we cannot speak against the rights of the apricot maker in Turkey, neither can we speak against the peach of the Land Sea, nor speak against the tea of the Black Sea, nor can we speak against the peanut of Antwerp, nor can we speak against the narcenist of Çurova. So it's not an issue against you, I'll speak in favor of it, my speech will be in this frame. In Malatya, the apricot maker lives anxiously until he puts his apricot in a bag and puts it in his tractor trailer. So, 364 days of a year, he lives in worry that he'll be able to evaluate his product, and on the last day, he's sure to put his product in his car and take it to the market, but when he goes to the market, it falls into the hands of the loan sharks. So we're talking 365 days of anxiety about a manufacturer. So I'd like to rephrase our support as a group for a research proposal here regarding their problem. Apricot production -- yes, Mr. Agha just expressed -- the Malatian apricot has a potential to cover 80, 85 per cent of the world's dry apricot, but unfortunately, there is still no field analysis of Turkey's strategic agricultural products in this country. At the time, Ozal came to power, and when he became a Malatian Prime Minister, the Malatian producers had a little bit of a problem, the apricot producer took a breather, but then again they were abandoned to their own destiny. So as individuals, whether or not someone is very interested in an area is not an advantage, but as a whole, Turkey's analysis of agriculture and animalism needs to be removed and a holistic perspective on its problems. We don't just call it Malatian, but that's the case with other regions, so the problem with the peach maker in Burma is no different. If you go to the citrus manufacturer in Çukurova, it would be similar to the problems. If you go to the Black Sea, the nut maker, the teamaker, will express similar problems. There has been an argument, especially recently, about the teamaker in the Black Sea, as if smuggled tea had killed the manufacturer in Turkey. As a Hakkari MP, I can clearly state that I drink Black Sea tea in my home, and when my guest arrives, I offer Black Sea tea. But I especially want to say that people who have developed politics from here through Black Sea tea, nuts or other products can't show enough sensitivity to fixing those problems. One more important point, especially with the apricot manufacturers, has been referred to TARSIM, so there isn't, but there isn't, agriculture insurance, basically, in this country, there isn't. If the Minister of Affairs were here, we'd talk. We've worked on it once when it was discussed in the commissions. In this regard, we need to make TARSIM more efficient, more active. Now, there's been a frost disaster this year. This frost disaster, yes, affected the apricot manufacturer, the apricot, the worker. We're talking about Malatya apricots, but we're not just talking about Malatya's problem, we're talking about the problem of the apricot worker in Adıyaman, we're talking about the problem of the apricot worker in Urbana. Because in this period -- especially from Adıyaman's point of view -- many families from Adıyaman are the only livelihoods of Malatya after a blow to tobacco manufacturers -- their numbers can be expressed by thousands. They wait for summer, they wait for July, they wait for August; they wait there for the family to do apricot work and bring home a few pennies, bread. This whole frost thing has been a blow to all their hopes. But someone's even making a living in these pants. Who? Apricot hoarders. Who are these apricot hoarders? There's no way of stockpiling the apricots of people who live off their labors, or the five-10 trees, or the one with 100-200 trees, if there's no other side income. Who's stockpiling? Someone's starting to stock up while they're still in the fruit tree branch. Just a month and a half ago, until a month ago, the apricot is now $1.5, and look, it's over 10 TL. Who won here? The loan sharks, the hoarders, won here. Who's he coming back as that coup? Apricots return as a blow to the manufacturer. Thus, the proposal must be adopted in parliament, including the problems of other producers, such as those with similar problems, and the problems of manufacturers in similar pencils. But Mr. Aghababa didn't mean to say that, I suppose, but I also need to correct one expression here: "Let the apricots be distributed instead of milk. " It's someone's, the workers', the villagers' things.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0016par0312	Instead of broken milk, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0017par0313	Instead of milk, he said.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0015par0314	I think that expression may have exceeded its purpose, but after all, apricots are not the alternative to milk. Apricots, yes, are a useful food that we consume with pleasure and appetite.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0016par0315	Instead of broken milk, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0015par0316	Roger, roger. Let me explain, let me finish, please let me tell you something. I mean, Mr. Agha, I think it's already out of the question. But please, at this point, I'd like to leave the apricot here and bring one more point to your attention. Yesterday I'd like to share a letter from Sincan Prison with Parliament that came to me and came to me. I'm passing the salutation, the rest, I'd like to share with you the sentences in the pen of an inmate in Sincan Prison: (the reason I write to you is because in prison where I am, where we speak to each other, and where we use it as an open view of ourselves, on March 15, 2013, a group of our friends found listening devices in the area of which you visited them while they were placed under the tables, which were described as "the following" in public. Prisoners found it under the tables here. Now, here, who planted these listening devices here, for what purpose, for what purpose? It's the Department of Justice's job to expose it. It's a scandal. I wonder, I wonder, now that there's been a lot of publicity being done lately, we've built a private room for inmates, inmates to meet their families, and the mentality that puts insects under the table of people who have open opinions with their families puts insects under the bunk beds where prisoners will meet their families. What are you listening to here? Isn't that a shame? Isn't that a bad thing to do? How are you going to handle this scandal? Who's doing this? We've submitted this petition to the bug research commission that currently operates. We also announce to all the citizens of Turkey that seven listening devices have been placed under their desks in Sincan Prison, where prisoners are open-minded with their families, where they use them as a place of view when they go on social activity amongst themselves. This is the duty and responsibility of the country's Ministry of Justice... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he should be investigating these wiretaps, considering this matter. As a complaint from the prisoners, I'm now transferring this request from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Turkey in public. I hope and wish they'd be interested and seize this scandal, expose the people responsible for this scandal, and be relieved of duty. Again, we will vote in favor of the motion to investigate. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0018par0327	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0019par0328	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction. I think there's been a misunderstanding, and I'd like to make a correction, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0018par0329	Mr. Aghababa, we don't have that kind of procedure. It's like fixing things, but when it comes to teasing...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0019par0330	I'll just make a correction. I didn't say no milk. I said no milk. I said no milk. Otherwise milk must be distributed. I said no milk must be delivered. I said, I wanted to correct it.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0018par0331	Well, thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Farit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0020par0334	Mr. President, I'd like to thank the beloved MPs, the National Party of Action Group and Mr. Oktay Vural Bey. I thank you, Mr. Vural, for giving me the right to speak as a Malatian of the National Movement Party, to your group and to your witness. My dear friends, this is a matter of bread, nothing else. I believe that whoever has no bread, whoever needs bread, has a conscience in this House... Our business is about bread. My dear friends, 700,000 people are directly concerned with their apricots, not just 60,000 manufacturers. We only get one product a year. There's no alternative. If it doesn't happen once, if it freezes or doesn't, we can't plant anything instead, no vegetables, no fruit. Once in a while, it yields once a year. When it freezes, everything's gone. It's not just about the apricot, it's the bread of 750 thousand people living in Malatya; it's the fuel man, the fertilizer man, the dowry man, the grocery store, whatever industry you can think of. For one thing, in the Malatya area, this money goes up to about $400 million a year, all the way to the thinnest points. Everyone gets hurt when they're not, not just the manufacturer is the victim, all Malatya is the victim, everyone's bread is gone. Our business here is to find a solution to the bread, to find a solution to the bread of those manufacturers and all Malatians; we have no other purpose, no other purpose. Once a year, when she's gone, she's desperate, she can't send her kids to school, she can't give her kids a wedding. The gas station, the fuel man, he gives them on credit once a year, he gives them to apricots, but without apricots, they can't collect, everybody gets a chain, everybody gets a hard-on. That's the whole point, guys. We're looking for our bread. We're after our bread. The Republic of Turkey is a social law state. We don't ask people who don't have bread, but when it freezes in 2010, I thank my fellow congressmans of that era, all my fellow Malatian MPs.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0021par0337	No distinction.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0020par0338	I said all Malatya, I didn't discriminate. What is it? It was a matter of bread. We all cried and cried, but somehow, at that time, the damage to our villager, our manufacturer was partially compensated. We're waiting for the same app now. So, the main reason for our research proposal is to find a solution to these people's problems as soon as possible, to find a solution to these people's desperation. It's summer before us, everyone's squeezing the peasant now, desperate. Believe me, he hasn't hit the flower yet because it hasn't bloomed in less than 1,000 meters, not yet, but under 1,000 metres, especially in what we call the Tohma-size and Karakaya-Baraj Lake, Akçadağ, Doğanşehir, Battalgazi district and part of Malatya.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0022par0340	In writing.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0020par0341	And a portion of the Hekimhan, and part of the Kuluncak, and all of them that were by the river, were destroyed, my friends, in part, in the high places. For example, the damage rate in Darende is 90% friends. There is a report from the Malatya Agricultural County Directorate, for example, 70-80 per cent in Akçadağ, 90 per cent in Darende. What are we going to eat? We're desperate. It's this House's duty to find a cure, it's the power's duty to find a cure, we all have to say it together to find a cure. We're just here because we're desperate and we're chasing our bread this year. We have no other purpose. Oh, if there's another busy event in another part of the dorm, we'll show the same sensitivity. My dear friends, Malatiah was white, and when you looked from above, from Darendeh to Elazig, it was gone, and the white flowers were now black, and all those trees bowed their necks. Friends, the tree bends its neck, the farmer twists its neck. People are crying at the bottom of the trees. They worked hard, threw manure, fertilized it three times, vaccinated it three times, and spent a lot of money. There was only one thing left: to harvest in July. Not only did he harm Malatiah, but he was employing many of our people from Adıyaman, and from Urbana. We won't be able to give them jobs anymore, and Turkey will be deprived of an estimated $400 million exchange entry this year. That's what we want to express. We're gonna have to work it out, guys. Again, we're desperate, we're hungry. Don't let anyone starve us, that's exactly what I'm using. What are we going to eat? How can we send our children to school? How are we gonna get our kids married? And let not Allah put back any soul from what He sees, and let not He disgrace its children. That's the thing, guys. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we have the will of Parliament here. What we wanted from the Clave's will was to draw attention to this problem, to this desperation, rather than a research motion. We're looking for our bread. To shout together that we are searching for our bread. It's our duty. We have to do this mission. We don't have to bend those people's necks. Notice that I didn't say a word of politics, I didn't say a word of politics, and I won't, because it's a matter of priority bread. Come, you bring it, you bring this motion, you offer the law. We're ready to sign until the end. We'll always be there for whoever brings it, who can cure the bread, because that's our understanding. We're desperate. It's our duty, all of us. I mean, a city is disappearing. When March comes, between March and April, those people lie at the bottom of the apricot trees at night. They burn tires, they resort to all sorts of things, but it's a natural thing, they can't help it, they're desperate, and then these people cry because they don't have anything. They make money here once a year, earn their bread once a year. My dear friends, this is a very sensitive subject for Malatya. I would like to address power from here: whatever duty we have, Mr. Vural expressed to me yesterday that the National Movement Party, which gave me the right to speak, said, "We are ready for all support, whatever it takes." As the Republican People's Party Group, we are prepared for any support until the end, as long as we solve this problem, and we find a solution. We have the cure, the cure is not elsewhere; it is in the will of the House, and the will of the House will find every solution. We're ready. Do not make Malatiah helpless, neither make the people of Malatiah needy with bread. We are honorable, we are proud, we will not compromise our dignity even if we are hungry, but we deserve our rights, we want ours. I'm waiting for all of you to help me, and I'm paying all of you my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0023par0351	Thank you. Öznur Çalak, Malatya MP who wants to take a stand against the Republican People's Party group proposal
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0024par0354	Against you?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0025par0355	Against you, brother, against you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0024par0356	Oh, my God! Don't make me a Malatya MP!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0026par0357	Against the motion, not just against the issue.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0027par0358	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0028par0359	Mr. President, I respectfully salute the High Assembly and believe that its apricot should be kept on the agenda so much that both Malatya and Turkey are very happy. Because apricot is one of the traditional products of our country, and Turkey is the world leader of Malatya in exporting dry apricot production. Turkey continues its leadership regarding its apricot, thanks to Malatya, and I simply want to share with them what we've done about our production of the apricot. Our apricot production has shown significant increases in the last nine years. In 2002, apricot production increased to 315,000 tonnes, while in 2012 it increased by 141 per cent to 760,000 tonnes. 3.3 million tons of apricots were produced in a world where world apricot production was 422,000 hectares. Our country ranked first in production of 760,000 tonnes of apricots in about 11,000 hectares. Our country meets 90 per cent of the world's production in dry apricot production, and with the work our Ministry of Agriculture has done, dear friends, these rates have changed dramatically. In 2002, the total production of apricots in Malatya rose to only 122,000 tonnes, while in 2012 it increased to 409,000 tonnes by 233 per cent. Ninety per cent of the apricot produced in Malatya is dehydrated, and more than 90 per cent of the exported dry apricot is also met by Malatya, and we have given very important support for agriculture in the country we say is the capital of its apricot. Support for agriculture in 2002 was raised to 362 million in Malatya from 23.5 million in 2012 to 38 trillion in 2012. When we gave these supports, we made it especially possible for our citizens, our producers, our farmers, to take advantage of loans from the Farm Bank, and in 2002, only 1.8 million loans were used by the Agriculture Bank, and in 2012, the final figures were 70.2 million euros, and about 4.600 per cent increase. In 2012, we used 34 million and a total of 104 million loans. You can see the difference between 2002-2012. Malatya has a very serious, strong support from the rate of credit return. In 2002, the rate of credit returns increased by 23 per cent, while in 2012, the rate of credit returns increased by 100 per cent. So, guys, we're looking back at what we gave to the apricots when we gave these benefits to agriculture. For years, since the world has been established, it's probably not the first time in ten years that the world has been a disaster, no frost, no damage. We also know that the disaster, the frost, the damage, and then we know that our farmer, unfortunately, had to take care of his products in agony without any support, and we say, starting in 2006, our apricot manufacturer, along with the AK PARTI power, began to receive very serious support. Most important support: We created a very important concept, an institution in Turkey, and we established TARSEM (TARSIM) and our apricot producers took their products into insurance, and in 2007 we supported our Malatian manufacturer in total 17 million. With the support of our fruit, we returned, for the first time in the world, the flower was insured in Turkey, and nowhere was not covered by flower insurance, and the process with which we lived with this insurance coverage in the flower continued very quickly. For the first time in 2011, we supported our citizens without TARSIM, 89 trillion farmers who suffered from frost damage. These 90 trillion have contributed very seriously to the Malatian economy and the Turkish economy. Now, dear friends, from March 18th to March 19th to March 23rd 24, 2013, again, there were serious difficulties in Malatya because of the weather conditions. Our farmer, our producer, shared his misery with us, and I believe Malatya has always felt it: whenever our farmer, producer, Malatya, our Prime Minister, the ministers, we received it, as we received it yesterday. Just as we took 90 trillions, Malatya became a precedent in Turkey, other provinces would continue to support their disaster-torn products in the same way. From March 18th to March 19th and March 23rd, the disaster of apricot trees, especially during the flower season, was observed by all of us. Last week, we were in the central villages of Malatya, and this week we were in the villages of Malatya Darende, and we immediately asked that they be examined and examined by Agriculture County Directorate and TARSIM. As a result of the work, the city of Malatya was affected by a disaster in 214 villages in 14 counties, including Akcadağ, Arabgir, Arguvan, Battalgazi, Darende, Doğanşehir, Doğanyol, Hekimhan, Kuluncak, Puturge, Yazhan, Yeşilyurt and the centre. In order for us to complete this determination, we must begin our detection during the fruit season, like the month of May. Here's what our farmer asked us after this discovery, our producer we went to, and he asked us: "Let our debts at Zaraat Bank be repaid, our debt in the agricultural loan co-op, and give us their support on this matter once again." He said, "We have met with our Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Mehdi Eker, and all of the bureaucrats to get these supports, and to get them, more accurately, we have met with Mr. Mehdi Eker. TARSIM sent about 44 experts to all the towns, towns, villages, and villages in Malatya, and how much of our farmers' crops have been damaged, how much the flowers have been damaged, they have spread throughout the area to detect them, and after bearing fruit, the actual damage will be done. After this damage assessment, we'll continue our discussion with Mr. Ali Babacan, our Deputy Prime Minister for Agriculture, Mr. Mehdi Eker, and again with the support of our Group Deputy President, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, after the determination of disaster rates. I mean, the way we took care of our Malatian manufacturers yesterday...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0029par0366	With the support of the entire House.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0028par0367	... If we have supported our farmers and producers in Turkey, we will continue to give the same support. I'd like to stress one thing in particular: there are some issues where power doesn't matter about opposition, and one of the things that doesn't matter is the problems that our farmers have had, and all my Malatian lawmakers, including my fellow members of the opposition party, have been the only punch to worry about our farmers' problems. Today, as we have been in the past, my AK PARTI organization in Malatya, my mayor, my entire team, my lawmakers, Malatian lawmakers, my AK PARTI MPs, my MPs from the Republican People's Party, and our friends from other political parties, they said, "Let's pay for this damage -- rather -- let's cross the debt." They said, and we've done it before in Malatya.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0030par0369	Yes or no?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0028par0370	We've done this before in Malatya, and I believe this success is now, once again, that our farmer's debt to the farm bank, the agricultural and loan co-ops will be extended.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0031par0371	Yes or no?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0032par0372	Are you going to say yes or no?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0028par0373	There's no need to make a motion on this, because the AK PARTY power will meet its requirements today as it did yesterday. What we do is a guarantee of what we do. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0033par0376	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0034par0377	Mr. President, we support the motion as the National Movement Party, sir. I hereby declare that we will support any proposal to resolve the problems of apricot manufacturers.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0033par0378	Mr. Aslanoglu already told me. Thank you. I'm going to submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0035par0383	Sustained.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0036par0384	Sustained.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0037par0385	Sustained.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0386	Sir, it's the recognition of political party groups. In accordance with the decision taken, we're going to have to consider...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0039par0388	Mr. President, is that possible? Sustained.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0389	I can re-vote if you'd like, to correct any mistakes.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0040par0391	Look at the reports, the reports.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0392	No, I understood that they didn't agree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0041par0393	Mr. President, why don't we ask the clerks?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0394	No, there's no different opinion between the clerks than I do, so here. The motion has been voted and rejected, I repeat, meaning it has to go into the transcripts. Please...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0042par0395	Sustained. Everyone raised their hand to accept it.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0396	In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move to the part of the Commission's Other Affairs With Law Bills and Proposals. Turkey in the 1st place...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0043par0398	Mr. President, I've just asked for a promise from my position according to Article 60, which you said, "I'm not giving." Why didn't you promise me? First of all, as president, I want you to speak according to the 60th article. When I say, "What do you want to talk about?"
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0399	Mr. Young, I've made my statement, if you'd like me to do it again.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0043par0400	Just a minute, Mr. President. First of all, you need to ask me for an opinion. In my opinion, you have to declare your will to make a decision, but I want a promise based on Article 60. I say, "You're not taking any castles." What kind of president is that?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0402	Please, Mr. Young, I had no intention of not taking any congressman's fort, no way. Let me explain. I did it then, but...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0043par0403	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0404	Thank you. First, the last word in the Charter is the MP's. In order for the congressman to ask for a word, there must be a conversation. You asked for a word when there was no subject, and I made it this way, Mr. Young, you are the master of this matter. We're doing what we learned from you here. Please... I, the members of the group, promise the deputy presidents -- this is how we do it from start to start -- both outside the agenda and every time they want a word. Other than that, there's got to be something that's been said so we can promise the congressman. You asked for word when there was no subject, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0044par0407	Sir, look, a brief statement according to Article 60...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0408	A brief statement about what, Mr. Young?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0044par0409	Just a minute, Mr. President. You're being too biased. According to Article 60, the purpose of short disclosure is to bring up a topic that was on the agenda that day. For example, now, the wise men have spoken of it. I, now, would like to express an opinion on this matter from my position.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0411	Mr. Young, the matter has been made clear. Thank you. In the 1st place...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0045par0414	But, Mr. President, can I have your attention? I need you to listen to me. That's no way to be president! You can't be president like this!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0038par0416	...we will resume the negotiations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Human Rights Review Commission, the European Union Compliance Commission and the Interior Commission reports, which are ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th ranking, Ankara MP İzzet Cetfain, Ankara MP İzzet Demirtaş, İstanbul MP Aydın Agha Ayaydüş, and İstanbul MP Aydın Ayadı, have offered to make amendments to the Law on Public Finance and Debt Management, 4447 Law Act; Mustafa Baloglu, the Collector of the Law on Compensation of Obligatory Insurance Act 4447; and Alternate Law on Alterressponsibility Insurance Law; and Alterance Act on the Law on Humanity Insurance. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Integration Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports. 4-Second of the Law on the Editing of Public Finance and Debt Management, İstanbul MP Aydın Ağan Ayayydın (agreement of Law on the Act of Law on Compensation and Law on Compensation in Compensation of Compromises, Consuming MP Mustafa Baloglu, Ankara MP İzzet Cet Demirtaşin; 4447 Law on the Amendment to the Law on Unemployment Insurance Act; İstanbul MP Aydın Ağan Ayaydıdın's Proposal on the Law on Compensationals of 4447 No.1/125/125) Number: 443) [[x]] The Commission and the Government? He's in position. In the past session, the vote was completed on the first part of the bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers Articles 31 to 59. Aykut Erdoğdu İstanbul MP who asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party group on the second chapter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] (x) 443 S. Numbered Basmaz 2/4/2013 has been added to its 86th Union report.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0046par0441	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the second part of the law proposal, which began in the name of Public Finance and Debt Management, 443 rows. I salute you all. Dear President, dear lawmakers, first of all, this bag of legislation has come to a point where it really destroys the will to live. The name of the law, as you can see, is a paragraph. It's not the right thing to do in terms of legislature. The ruling party is doing it all the time, and since there are poor laws, we're always working overtime to change old laws. Dear friends, this law is a bill brought to our attention politically by Mr. Ali Babacan, followed by the Undersecretary of Treasury in an administrative sense. There is no Mr. Ali Babacan again today, but the Undersecretary of Treasury is here. First of all, the Undersecretary of Treasury was a backbone of macroeconomics, dear friends, but since 1995, there have been constant changes in the structure of the Undersecretary of Treasury, their permanent powers have been compromised, their general administrations have been separated, and as of today -- as of the day we arrived -- the Treasury Undersecretary's Public Finance, Public Economic Initiatives, the State Departments of Foreign Economic Relations is trapped in a narrow structure on the basic headquarters. Dear friends, Treasury Undersecretary staff, they were highly trained bureaucrats who created the state's economic and financial intelligence, but unfortunately, over the last decade, when you compared them with other professional groups, there have been some serious setbacks in their rights, political favourability began in their assignments, and the Treasury bureaucracy, which created the state's economic and financial intelligence, has slowly begun to melt. While there have been relatively improvements in the rights of all other institutions, unfortunately, Mr. Ali Babacan -- despite his power in the cabinet -- has not taken a step towards the autonomy rights of the experts of the Foreign Trade Undersecretary staff, experts, and the State Planning Agency, under his new name, the Ministry of Development -- of Development. I believe Mr. Prime Minister has been very unconcerned about this as well. This is extremely important in terms of our macroeconomic management. I hope that soon there will be arrangements for new and original rights, including Treasury experts and Treasury controllers. Another problem is that bureaucrats who have worked for years in the Treasury Undersecretary, who have worked overtime, who have made important decisions, are unfortunately being massacred. Somewhere in any indictment, there are personnel in the Treasury who have been deposed for having been mentioned without their knowledge. It's a shame, we really shouldn't be doing this to the people we work with. Dear friends, the other problem is that macroeconomic management has two basic institutions: the Ministry of Economics and the Undersecretary of Treasury. Right now, they live in one building in a row, five experts live in the same room. There are three chairs in the room, one sitting, the other getting up. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Undersecretary, you need to resolve this matter immediately. Now, that building doesn't physically carry this structure anymore, but unfortunately, while we were working, we used to say that those with room problems don't have authority, those with authority don't have room problems. As soon as those two structures are separated, the Treasury must remain in that building, and the Treasury experts and Treasury controllers must be employed in the proper environments. And I'm bringing this to your attention. Dear friends, the Undersecretary of Treasury operates in a very important area from public finance to public economic initiatives as of today, and it is the Ministry of Treasury, which rules politically the institutions such as the Agriculture Bank, People's Bank, Eximbank, Development Bank, and the Ministry of Treasury. Dear friends, we're in charge of the Public Economics Commission. According to the Constitution, according to the Commission Act 233 and according to the Bank's Law, we have the authority to control banks, and we have the answer to every question we ask when we use the control authority to control these banks: the banking secret. Now, I'm asking the members of the ruling party: I'm asking the bid to rent a car from the Bank of Agriculture of Turkey, I'm asking the security tender of the People's Bank, and the written answer is. It's called a banking secret. Dear lawmakers, since when has a rental contract, a computer purchase contract, a security tender a banking secret? Velev, even if it's a banking secret, the Constitution tells me that you're authorized and responsible to oversee it. And when we get here, when we ask about certain loans, it's a banking secret. It has become the institutions that cover the secrets of the wild capital, and there is a problem at the root of the problems with banks that will come our way. So, what has this banking secret been hiding? Dear friends, the highest credit in the history of the Republic has been in your era, unfortunately, during your time. A 285m-euro loan has been earmarked by the Agriculture Bank to build a shopping mall. The public bank, which is supposed to lend money to the farmer, has given 285m euros to a shopping centre in Istanbul, and unfortunately, this has been a feasibility project by altering intelligence reports during loans to the mall, and as far as we can see from this project, I don't want to blame the administration -- but it has been discovered during the period in which it is not feasible. Today, a 99 per cent finished facility has a lock on the door of this facility, built with 285m euros in public loans, dear friends, and as of now, there is very serious information that there is pressure to change the hands of this facility, even that this loan is badly managed. I hope Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan will have the Treasury controllers look into it. Dear friends, the problems with banks are not limited to this. I told it to the press once again. There are seven million lira serial loans, non-interested agricultural loans. When you look at these loans, it turns out that almost all loans are run by the same person, and what's sad is that when the farmer can't get a loan, when the farmer is under the burden of financing today, companies have been given seven million dollars in loans -- and these loans are being monitored by the same person. The size of these loans is over 100 million liras, dear friends. Now, let's get back to the beginning. If I could've used my constitutional authority in time, if the ruling party's Public Economic Initiatives Commission or ruling party group hadn't stopped me from using it legally, maybe we'd be involved in the process of using these loans. Remember this: You use power as a representative. These beings are the people's assets, and we are the people's MPs, and the Constitution tells us, "O MPs of the people, check whether the people's assets are being used in accordance with the law and the procedure. You have no right to take this authority from us. Today we were under the supervision of another institution, and we face the same problem in every institution. We face the same problem at the Public Housing Authority. And then when it gets bigger and bigger, when we tell you about it, you get sad. The way to avoid this sadness, to get rid of it, to prevent the destruction of our beings, is that we all fight in common with corruption, corruption, violation of the law. The most important factor in this common struggle is, unfortunately, the lack of political will. Now, I'm going to re-promise on other articles of this law, especially in public banks and privatisation, regarding matters concerning the Undersecretary of the Treasury, and I'm going to continue to tell you about them. I salute you all, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0047par0457	Thank you. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0048par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised to speak on behalf of the National Party of Action on the second part of the proposed Law Bill 443 rows. I salute the grand jury. I see, Mr. Secretary of the Treasury, who is in charge of the Law, is not here, and has not been here before in the SEC Law and so on. But, Mr. Secretary, I can tell you the same thing, you've done it before, and now this law-making process is really out of control. The Turkish Grand National Assembly has been known to have a rapid increase in laws that do not have the minimum needs or qualities of law technique. Given the language of the law, the phenomenon of inflation, it appears that our legal system was in grave danger during the AKP period. When you were Minister of the Interior -- I was going to tell Mr. Secretary the like of these things, but since you've been through the same things -- you brought in a bill on municipalities, I believe, about their income, in February. I'm an academic and you're a planner. You came to us two months ago, budgeted. It wasn't in the account, what the hell? Can't you see the tip of your nose? I said the words. You guys were really touchy and pulled the bill, but what did you do? You brought him here with other signatures as the same offer on the basis of his comma. It's a shame, it's an insult to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to do such a thing. I did the math wrong, I couldn't do it right, I couldn't calculate it, so I'm bringing it here. Now the same Mr. Secretary, look, he's doing the same thing in many cases. Which one does he do it in? He brought in the financial rule. What he told us on the Commission, when we read them, every time we ask him today, he won't tell us his answer, why he didn't break the fiscal rule. But OECD would take advantage of him, and the IMF would take advantage of him. But we've seen, every time we ask, Mr. Secretary refuses to give us an answer about the financial rule. Aren't you bored or suffering, don't you feel responsible for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? How do you respond when strangers tell you that you have brought a package of 250 items, that you will take out the financial rule? How do you answer? I find it really hard to understand. You've come about the SEC Act, while the bureaucrat sitting next to you rejoices that the law will be passed, while you -- the bureaucrat next to you -- see what he's become on a screen. You have him prepped while he's on duty, you take out the law, he comes up with what's called a dismissal. Don't you have any right judgment, clarity, transparency? He's really troubled. Beyond that, who's in the co-ordination of the economy? You. In the Constitutional Amendment, you've been showered, you've established the Economic and Social Council. How many times have you collected it? It's not even relevant. Now, your cabinet friends are telling the Central Bank, so to speak -- I don't want to say anything worse -- from separate wire, you from separate wire, you from Zafer Çağan Bey from separate wire, but you don't respond to such harsh words as you do as Minister. You guys really don't talk about this stuff in the Cabinet? Don't you ever say anything to the Cabinet about how this is supposed to happen? Or you can't get along, and this is how you try to boil each other in public? That's how the economy works. You haven't even organized the Economic and Social Council yet. Now, I don't know if you're speaking on the Council of Ministers, but look, now, what did you say to the Competition Agency decision? You started describing Ciro. Some ministers in terms of the trial of the Competitiveness Foundation, I do not give instructions. Some say that the Competitiveness Agency is being merciful, while you are offering suggestions to the Competitive Association on how to identify the turnovers. You're officially leading the court, you're interfering with the free market, you're causing the citizen to get run over when you look at it. What you brought in with this law on the Foundations is really a disgrace. I'd be ashamed of myself for you, but your appreciation is that we can't tell him anything. You have taken out Law number 5018, which has been given to you, and you have been given to disgrace. What is fundamentally applied to Law 5018? Except for the fact that your name is 5018, what I really want to do is, once again, I want to express what you've become. Now, look at what you've done with this law: our friends have written clearly and specifically for the reason, you didn't pay attention to the audit and capital provisions of the Turkish Trade Law, you didn't comply, you let them. The laws of the Law of Debts were not observed, and you ignored them. Not all necessary procedures have been performed, including a change in the deed's record by the relevant agencies, and you've let that happen. Under other legislation, under the Tax Usul Law and Turkish Trade Law, the bookkeeping and other obligations were not met, and you let it go. The Houses and Stock Exchange Association's Code of Rooms and Stock Exchanges has been violated, and you let it go. You've ruled against the State of Public Economics and passed judgment 399 against the State of the Law. There's a matter of stamping tax on all transactions and incomes and return capital and sair fees, and you let it go. Now, when you look, the laws of the Expendance Law were not obeyed; what have you done, and what have you done? The Taxes Act of the Institutions has not been obeyed, and you have ignored it. And what have you done, what have you done in reverse, what have you done in your mistakes? You're making a judgment, trying to clean up all this mess. Don't you have any trouble with that, Mr. Secretary? Doesn't it bother you at all? When you're asked outside, what do you say when you're asked about the 250-point bag of laws, you always bring the bag of laws, what do you do with them? You don't ask the parliamentarians there when you go abroad, for God's sake, how's the law-making technique? You established a general directorate for state support, which was urgent, like the financial rule. Is it working now, or did you postpone its work? How does it stand there? He's in another building, he's lying on the side, I think-- he looks like he did. Not answering them, ignoring the opposition doesn't justify you, nor does it mean that you're doing well, but I want to make it clear that you're trying to keep your wrongs quiet. Don't you ever think about resisting criticism from your government of the Central Bank executives? Or is it really true what they say? Would you not then mind that they were not disbelieved? Look, we're looking at the Central Future Program, and in fact, even though you pushed the date forward for five months, you would not publish it. You publish the growth target, which you call ▪ The growth goal of 3.2 Central Time Program, near the end of the year. You've got 2.2 of all the data coming in at your disposal. In 2011, 8.8 growths enter the same amount of external resources; 2.2 growths in 2012. How do you explain this to the community? Look, in this newspaper you see it says, "Strike me if you're in love, if you're a driver, hit me." Look at what he's become. One of them says Fren is bitter, and the other says Mr. Finance Minister is a success. We're wondering what you're saying, and we'd like to express our views. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0049par0479	Thank you. The Justice Kurt Hakkari MP who wanted to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0050par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, as we expressed our views on the general, in fact, we made a detailed statement about how a non-serious law proposal was prepared and moved to the agenda of the House. Now, I'm going to go over a few details, and I'm going to share with you a couple of examples of how serious these problems have been. For example, in Article 38, we will discuss the matter a little later, what does it say? Now, recently, in particular the law-making technique has begun to acquire new rhetoric. For example, there are some expressions that are not often used or applied, the concept that is acceptable. Now, where do you fit a description that's open in relativity, with so much relativity in the legal technique, actually, we're having a hard time expressing that. He says: "In cases deemed necessary by the ministers, it is possible for you to think about these last two concepts, for the purpose that public services can be carried out or that the treasure will be more effectively and efficiently managed. " It's a Middle Ages concept, which means medieval societies resorted to the trampa way, but the government brings this Middle Ages concept to the agenda of the Assembly. It's open to pleasure, so we can manage it any way we want, give it to anyone we want -- I don't want to use the concept of peer -- there's something about it. It's like saying, "I don't want to use the concept of peer." I started with the 38th article, but since it's related to the next issue, I've kept the 32th, 33th, especially in the second place, and I'm not speaking according to a system. The changes made in Article 32 and 33 are very interesting. I'd like to share with you the change that was made first. Two amendments are made in the Law on Unemployment No. 4447, under the provisions of Article 32, Article 33 and 33. Article 32 is envisioned by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, instead of the Undersecretary of Treasury, the state's share of the unemployment insurance of Law 4447 under Article 49. Now, you're doing a non-serious, unpredictive legislation. When we say, "Why do you make such an accusation?" Or at times, you perceive what we're saying as accusations, and sometimes you're sensitive. Well, it's a visionary thing. From what budget will the Ministry of Labour and Social Security pay the burden you now hand over in the third month of the year, at the beginning of the fourth month? What's the budget pay for that? Four months ago, we discussed the budget, and the Department of Labor and Social Security's budget was discussed, which pen has this? Why bring up such uncertainty? Now, that's shortsighted. In addition to the arrangement, it pays if it wants to. There is an arrangement that means that you are exempt from interest. Clearly, it says to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, to the treasure: "Ya, we have brought this obligation this year, but you may not be able to pay this year's unemployment benefits. If you do not pay, you will not have any interest obligations. There may be only a law that is so subtle, so unfair. And that's what the AK PARTY government does, and it suits itself. Honestly, I'm having trouble understanding it. Now, I'm going to share with you three texts that point to the seriousness of the state. Look, your seriousness in making the law here is a reference to each other. State Supplies Office General Directorate is addressing the mayor of Hakkari, an answer to your request. Date: 12. 12. 2012. Care: Don't report a high-structure vehicle order. I'm reading the script as it is: the top-made vehicle, which is specified below by your writing of interest in the need of your establishment, and the contract on 16/11/2012 and 2012 1/385 for Karsan Automotive Industry and Trade. It was ordered to its company by 14.02.2013, with technical conditions, brand and model available in the parking lot. The senior vehicle in question will be submitted to your authorized personnel with a report by the company, and you will also be given information when the vehicle is ready for delivery. Superstructure Tools Buying No. 1 Commissioner G. The head of the apartment. I don't mention their names, they're not targets. I'll share the second notice with you: The assistance provided by our ministry is conditional and subject to the supervision of the Court of Justice. 03.04.2007 dates and R. In accordance with regulations on the use of the grant in exchange for the collection and the follow-up of environmental revenues, which has been published in the G.L.E., under the agreement between our institution and our ministry and our ministry; The application to our ministry has been accepted, and our Ministry of Homeland Capital Transfers will be met by the Tertibin and spent on the purpose of the stated use of the Agriculture Bank, Inc. In the Ankara Institutional Banking Office, the account opened on behalf of our institution -- on behalf of our ministry, hostage and blocked -- has been transferred to the following amount of funds. As part of this grant, your chairmanship of the following garbage collection vehicle was provided by the State Supplies Office General Directorate. In this frame; Regarding the vehicle delivered by your ministry, the following documents should be sent to our Ministry within 45 days at the latest to be in the file presented to the Court of Justice. 2 - The use of the vehicle according to the terms of the commitment and protocol in question should be known, otherwise the provisions in the commitment and protocol will be carried out; I'd like your information and the nature of the matter. To the minister. Vice General Manager V. So the garbage truck was assigned, ordered from the factory, delivered, and written to the city to be delivered to the city. I'm going to read the third document, I'm going to share the next article with you, see your seriousness. Attention: 01.02.2013 date and article 1918. - So the article I just read... Our notice of interest has been written by our Ministry on behalf of your mayor about the allocation of one garbage pickup vehicle. I'd like your information and the nature of the matter. To the minister. General Manager V. There's more to it; this garbage collection vehicle is in the Ministry's records in the inventory of Hakkari Municipality. The imaginary vehicle was ordered to the city, made, prepared, written at the request of the city. Come to the municipality, take over. It is said that the next day, we made a visit. He says, "And yet, this vehicle has been transferred from the Ministry to the municipality of Hakkari as if it had been assigned to the municipality of Hakkari." That's serious! That's the seriousness you're standing on or acting on. These documents explain enough. I don't think there's any need to say more about this law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0051par0512	Thank you. Mehmet Mush is the Istanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0052par0515	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the current bill of law. I salute the General Assembly. After the debt crisis in 2009, valued lawmakers have faced serious risks because of the pressure the budget faces, especially at the point of budget deficits, and because of the public's financial costs, and because of the high-profile public debt stock, and in order to minimise these risks, the countries continue to develop more and more careful public financing policies and public finance policies to reduce the cost of public financing, as well as to diversify financing instruments. In all this time, Turkey is a healthier, stronger structure in terms of public finance, compared to countries around the world. Look, valued lawmakers, I'm going to present you with a few statistics, and we'll all be able to see where the public finances between the past and today came from. Dear lawmakers, the public net debt burden in Turkey dropped from 61.5 per cent in 2002 to 17 per cent in 2012. When we look at the debt structure that the public owes, the rate of foreign currency is 58 per cent, while the rate is now down to 27 per cent, so the risks the country faces have been seriously reduced. Another statistic is that the interest we're paying is either variable or fixed interest. In 2002, 45 percent of the interest we paid was fixed, while today the rate was up to 60 percent. Another factor that was often expressed in this chair and in the Commission was criticism at the point of responsibility and at the point of burdens that the treasure would face due to guarantees. See, the high-value lawmakers have paid off 52 percent of those guarantees because of the guarantees that the treasure -- which I point out here -- in 2002 -- is 52 percent -- because of the guarantees that the treasure has given them. Today, that rate has dropped to 6 per cent. Now, I'd like to ask you, was the public finance more disciplined, more resistant to risks, or is it now? Now, valuable lawmakers, today there is a legal arrangement for the rental certificate instrument in order to further reduce the risks facing our public finances, diversify financing instruments. This instrument of financing, offered to investors who are sensitive at the interest point, has been used around the world since 2001, and is currently over $430 billion in global exports. In this way, both the instruments of financing will be diversified, and by diversifying the geography of financing, the risk will be further reduced and further reduced to financing costs. Another issue brought up with the bill is the cancellation of the Foundation's payment to the General Directorate of Foundations by 10 per cent of the institutional tax system each year. See, valued lawmakers are the largest shareholder of the Foundation, the Foundation's General Directorate, at 58.5%. Now, in the existing Foundations Act, in the current case, the Foundation Bank will pay 10 per cent of its taxes to the General Directorate of Foundations, 20 per cent to pay taxes, 30 per cent in total. All the banks he's competing against are only paying 20 per cent of corporate taxes, and the Vakifbank is actually getting a competitive wound in terms of competing with other competitors in the market by entering such a cost. Now this arrangement is being eliminated.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0053par0524	Who made that law?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0052par0525	See, valued lawmakers, as of today, the total market value of the Foundation is 14 billion TL. A reduction in the value of the foundation will directly affect the Foundation's General Directorship, a falling shareholder because 58.5% is owned by the Foundation General Directorate.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0053par0526	Mr. Mehmet, who made that law? Who made that suggestion? Did we bring it?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0052par0527	Dear lawmakers have distributed 601m euros to the Foundation's General Directorate from 2006 to today due to the profits it obtained, and the restoration of 3,750 artifacts from 2003 to 2012 was made from there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the bill to bring blessings to our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0054par0531	Thank you. Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya, who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0055par0534	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the basis of the second part of the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Budget Management. Dear lawmakers, we're up against another bag of law, a bag of law that dives into every area. And because this law is one of the things that it's involved in, I'd like to give you an assessment of where the economy is coming from, to the extent that my time has given me. The process of ruling division over Turkey has distracted society, and the negativeities in the economy have been cloaked in almost every aspect. In that sense, I'd like to share with you some of my views on what the economics' most fundamental indicator, the growth figures found yesterday, expressed. Dear lawmakers, the growth rate of Turkey's economy, which has been shrinking for eight quarters, has dropped to 1.4, in the last quarter of 2012. See, 3.3 in the first quarter in 2012; 2.9 in the second quarter; 1.6 in the third quarter; 1.4 in the fourth quarter. Our stable growth has dropped from the level of 8.8 in 2011 to the level of 2.2 in 2012. Now, this is an illegal domestic number, as you know. On the other hand, as you know, Turkey's non-national product figures are not disclosed, and it is very clear that when you look at it in terms of the gross national product, the economy of Turkey is in a recession, and that growth rates have never met the foreign share of our economy, and there is a recession in the economy, and there is also poverty in the nation. This is a recession, Turkey's economy is in recession. We find that none of the arguments used by those who try to use encouraging expressions after this are credible. Look, valuable lawmakers, we said that domestic consumption is stopping in Turkey, that it's slowing down, that it's not going to follow. First it reset, then it dropped by 1.9 in the last year. One of the most important things to notice here is the narrowing of internal consumption as consumer loans increase. What this means is that consumers pay more debt every day, pay interest in debt. Since the debt is paid by debt, even if it is a general decline in interest rates, the interest rates that consumers face in debt configuration are high, and thus the fact that the amount of loans they receive does not occur. One of the important things that's going to matter is that the effort of exports has been this much, the growth of 2.2 levels, but exports have slowed down. In March, when we had just finished, the increase in exports could only be 0.3, or 3. Internal consumption is continuing to shrink, exports continue to slow down; on the other hand, as it is known, the capacity of use is dropping, the real-estate trust index is falling; then, depending on these, industrial production is falling, internal consumption is falling, exports are falling, revenues are falling, savings are falling. And then, if this is not a sign of a relapse, then what is the situation or the measure of how it's going to go wrong? We've always asked how power will take measures on this issue, including budgetary periods, and there's only one answer that we've received, and maybe it'll be said again today. There are two points the government trusts to revive internal consumption and restore growth. One of them is that banks are stable, so they're still giving high-level loans, and bank profits are good. The second is the expression that his debt to the household is low. But the people of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a large portion of his debts are consumer loans. We explained that it is impossible to compare it with the West, since it has a daily loan to meet its needs. There's no cure for what I'm saying, that's what I'm trying to get your attention about. The recession in Turkey's economy is overlooked in the shadow of treacherous talks on Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0056par0545	Thank you. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0057par0548	Thank you. Question number one: how many pounds of rent certificates have been sold so far, provided the state's estate is shown as collateral? How much money has been obtained in exchange for this rent certificate, and debt has been made, and does this not exceed the debt limit mentioned in the budget? Second, this government has set up something called the intellectuals. What article of the Constitution is this based on? What will they be paid? And also these wise men... you know, on March 21st, when Abdullah Ocalan was read in Diyarbakır, and also Abdullah Gul and Tayyip Erdogan accepted this letter, he says: "Now the state of the secular Republic of Turkey will be destroyed, and they will be replaced by an Islamic flag. In this case, these wise men will go to the citizens and accept the destruction of this state of Turkey, and you will have a good government. What will they do, or will they do? I want that explained, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0058par0553	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0059par0555	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked Mr. Secretary yesterday about the 2011 and 2012 figures and the 2013 budgetary figures for the price of these credit rating agencies. I repeat that question. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0060par0558	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0061par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. Almost every neighborhood, as in the province of Tokat, in all parts of Anatolia, is open to major supermarkets. Every supermarket branch that opens causes nearly 40 to 50 small tradesmen to become unable to do business, even close. The tradesmen's associations and tradesmen's companies are all waiting for a study to be carried out at the point of an arrangement on supermarkets. But so far, there has been no statement from the government. Is there any study in this direction? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0062par0563	Thank you. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0063par0565	Thank you, Mr. President. Propulsion Law 5084 is vital to small businesses in Anatolia. This law was implemented in 36 provinces when it entered into force in 2004, and then was added 13 cities in 2005 to the number of 49. 46,300 businesses benefit from this law, with nearly 1 million workers working in these businesses, including 16,000 women, 832 thousand men. If this law does not go back into effect, the economic recession will begin in Anatolia and unemployment will increase. I'd like to ask the Minister here: When will Propulsion Act 5084 go back into effect? No, if it doesn't, will there be a different incentive law for businesses in Anatolia? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0064par0569	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0065par0570	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there are 54,000 chiefs in Turkey. But our chiefs are subject to an officer's trial when there's a criminal investigation in case he doesn't receive any notices. However, even though he is subject to criminal prosecution, he is unable to take advantage of the rights of officers in terms of his rights. Is it not a contradiction that both public servants and officers do not benefit from their rights? Do you or do you not think that you have any interest in fixing the rights of our Mukhtars, taking advantage of the rights of officers? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0066par0573	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0067par0575	Thank you, Mr. President. The provisions for the cuts that should be passed by the Foundation General Directorate have been eliminated, and the regulations for the payment, which so far should not have been made, have been nullified. What is the amount of cuts that should be transferred by the Foundation General Directorate as of 2012? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0068par0578	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0069par0580	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you're removing the part of this Bank of Foundations about your own provisions and 10 per cent of the profits being divided into old artifacts. I wonder, are you planning to sell the Foundation Bank, Mr. Secretary? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0070par0583	Thank you. No more questions. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0071par0586	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I've answered some of these questions in the late hours of yesterday about the rental certificates -- but perhaps it will happen again for our valued lawmakers who don't. Rental certificates are an instrument of financing, an instrument of debt, which is increasingly common in the world. But the difference between this debt and a classic debt is that you have to show an asset that has to do with this debt. So the treatment of this asset being sold and rehired is behind these rental certificates. Just last year, there was a $120 billion new export in global markets. The total number so far has again reached $400 billion in global markets. The exports each country has made on its own domestic market are out of these numbers. And when we add these up, of course, the number gets much higher. It's also preferred in many countries around the world, so it's a model of financing that's becoming increasingly common in Western countries like Britain, Germany. This model needs an asset rental company to work. So, the deed of real estate must be transferred to this asset rental company during the period of this rental certificate. But this is our asset rental company, a company owned and controlled by 100 percent of the treasure, and these instruments are produced over it. This structure that we've built has been highly suited for both international law and legal assessments of investors investing in these instruments, as well as the financing method, which is about $8.9 billion in international exports that we made at $1.5 billion last year. Again, we exported a total of 3.1 billion TL certificate in the domestic market last year and this year. Since this rent certificate is an instrument of debt, it is considered within the debt limit. So it's an instrument of debt that the budget has set here, within the limits set by budget law. Another issue is Mr. Kusoglu's question about these credit assessment agencies. I told you yesterday, after our friends have done the proper examination of the files, we'll give you the answer in writing later. As for Law 5084, you know, it's a law that promotes more employment, or rather it's 5084. The Law of the Law is a law that strongly fosters investment. But if we look at the way that 5084 was applied in 49 provinces, it is now an incentive for employment, even if it is not a new investment. So, even though it's not a new investment, we've come to the conclusion that it's not appropriate for an ongoing employment incentive to be part of investment incentives, and by the end of 2012, which was already the deadline, the 5084 was over. However, we will present it to the Grand National Assembly in the coming days as a government to introduce a new employment incentive that will replace its woes, and this will be an arrangement for the subsidisation of the social security premium at different times and/or at different rates, depending on the socioeconomic development index. We would also like to take the authority to the Council of Ministers. In a sense, we won't be calling it "5084" because it's not an investment incentive, but as a new employment incentive, we'll soon bring it to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, in case different practices are needed from the region to the region or the situation. There were questions about her rights. We don't have any information on those issues right now, and our units on those issues are unfortunately not among our friends sitting behind us right now. So let's study them and then, as I said, report them in writing. Now, another thing, this is about the Foundation. Yesterday, in fact, I had a comprehensive response, but again, I'll be repeating it for our valued deputies who weren't here yesterday. The 2008 arrangement was made after the Foundation was released to the public. But just in the days that this arrangement was held in Parliament, even before this arrangement was adopted by the General Assembly, our General Directorate of the Foundation makes a statement to the Public Enlightenment Platform because the Foundation is open to the public, and says: "Our share of control in the Foundation is 42 percent, so what does it say in this law is less than half?"
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0072par0594	Three days ago, Minister, during the interview.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0071par0595	It says that he controls more than half of the share of the General Directorate of Quads or owns 10 per cent of the income of the companies. Of course, I don't know how the details developed in those conditions that day, I don't know what's in the background of this, but why hasn't this 10% been paid so far? The answer is that the Foundation's General Directorate has already announced to the public, and I'm checking 42 percent. Thus, such a request from the Foundation was not actually made by the General Directorate of Foundations. And the bottom line is that we think that a bank, especially after it's publicized, is not very accurate in the principle of a 10-percent load, as if it's a private, extra tax to that bank. In fact, we've discussed this with all the details of the Commission and with our dear friends who are members of the Plan and Budget Commission. In fact, if such a income is needed, this will also be put into the budget, and the Foundations General Directorate can also be supported, but it is not appropriate for you to bring a 10-percent load to a single bank, especially after the people have been partnered with that bank and pay it to the General Directorate of Time. So, what do we want to do forward?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0072par0597	But that's how it turned out, Minister. That's the law. You were the Minister, and we were here.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0071par0598	It turned out that way, but look, in the last ten years, I'm not the one who claims that a hundred percent of the laws that the Turkish Grand National Assembly has passed are correct, so it can happen.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0072par0599	We don't claim it, we agree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0071par0600	Now, there's nothing as natural as fixing these mistakes when they're discovered. So, we're doing the right thing forward here, so we're sort of removing that 10% obligation. It wasn't applied in practice, and it wasn't paid for the reasons I said 10%. Thus, we feel that this is now an important arrangement to eliminate future uncertainty in a public bank. So we're saying that if we're going forward, then that's the truth, let's set this straight in the past. We wish there were no loopholes. Like I said, that's the bottom line. There was something in particular yesterday -- maybe today -- about the fact that municipalities can guarantee bond exports and treasure if necessary. Now, first of all, the joke about the 68th article of the municipal Law (c) is that bond exports that can be made by municipalities can only be carried out for the purpose of funding projects. So if there's a debt here with a bond export, there's bound to be a project in return. In the 1990s, that was not a requirement. Therefore, many municipalities were owed by exporting bonds at the time, and a significant portion of the bonds were not paid at the time, unfortunately. Which, as a principle, we believe our municipalities must be borrowed in exchange for a project. That's what we've been compiling when we've already passed the City Hall Act. So, you know, there's no problem with financial discipline. And again, in our current existing legislation, the municipalities can export bonds, and the treasure can guarantee these bonds, so we're not bringing a guarantee function of the treasure that hasn't been here before. All we're saying is that we want the municipalities to open a private account, and we want the money to be carried out in that private account about this bond -- if the treasure guarantees it. And that's actually a more restrictive, more controlling element in terms of financial discipline. When we read this article, of course, we read it straight, it's like, "Oh, from now on the municipalities will export more bonds, and the treasure will guarantee it, and the infrastructure of this is being prepared." It's not, it's already an authority of both our municipalities and the treasure. On the contrary, if there's an application under that authority, let's have this practice under discipline and let everything be monitored through this bank account, in a disciplinary manner. I thank you again.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0073par0604	Thank you. The QA is complete. So the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions in Article 31: I'm going to read them and process them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 31st edition of the 443 Orders Numbered Bill. In the matter, we would like to request that the assistant secretary (e.g.) be changed to the assistant secretary (e.g. the assistant secretary). İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Sedef Small Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, which is currently under way, be removed from the draft text of Article 31 of the Perpetual Law. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0074par0622	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0073par0623	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0075par0624	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0073par0625	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0076par0627	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers have said that our friends have made a formal addition to this clause, and that there has been an arrangement regarding the appointment of the chairman of the board along with the undersecretary, undersecretary and executive directors, but as a matter of fact, there may be only one reason why the chairman of the board is told here, beyond being a name, he should already be carrying those conditions. If he's back from abroad and he's being relocated before he's finished three years, then this material will do something; otherwise, it doesn't make any sense, it'll just be in the law with the others. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Minister of a few things. Dear friends, as with many laws, we have made arrangements for foreign diplomatic missions in the Capital Market Law as well as for other arrangements. Mr. Secretary, you are the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of co-ordination of the economy, and not only due to the treasure, but also as the Ministry of Development, as a business consultant, as an economic advisor, but as a consultant in the DPT, the Central Bank, now the SPK, we have foreign diplomatic missions in certain places. I wanted to bring it up on this occasion. Because there's got to be a coordination, guys. Each institution, not according to itself, works under them in the embassy, but in one country, there must be no economic advisor who represents dozens of different institutions associated with foreign trade in the other country. What I'm trying to say is that our foreign diplomatic missions are not supposed to be a place for the senior bureaucrat we want to depose to go to court as a payday. These areas need to be effectively used in Turkey's foreign relations, in their relations with those countries, in economics, trade, finance, in relation to agriculture, to contribute to our relations, to improve our economy. That's why it's best to get these things under control. Let me just say that on the basis of this clause. And then there was the part about the treasure that was unfinished yesterday that I couldn't say -- while you were here. I was referring to the poor words the Prime Minister said in the economy by putting an exclamation point on it. I told you about the IMF debt, but now that I'm looking at where the loans are coming from, the last quarter of 2012 came to $337 billion. And within that, the private sector's debt rose to $226 billion. So if there's even the slightest risk of courtship, the private sector's shortage is going to increase, because short-term loans are getting closer to 90 billion. Therefore, we, sir, are paying the debt, no problem. It is not enough to just say the debt to the IMF. We're doing 2.2 percent this time by revising the private sector's debt, public debt, consumer debt, credit card debt, so that if we pretend that everything's okay, we're going to land soft, we're going to go back 3.2%, we're going to do 2.2% this time, we're going to do a hard landing. If you look at it carefully, Mr. Secretary, if you look at how much of the 4.1 per cent of the export contribution is from gold exports, I'm afraid there's no decent growth left. Then we can't solve unemployment, and we can't solve the current problem because we have to. In order to produce it, domestic demand and external demand need to be revived somehow. Since there's no resuscitation in the external demand, the only way to revive the request inside is with the precautions we'll take. So, I repeat, as the National Movement Party, we have always been in a constructive, guiding, compromised sense of opposition in the country's problems. Come, as I just said in my speech on tourism, let's review the basic laws on tourism, employment, incentives. As the Minister just said, we didn't have to correct it today without applying the law that we passed in 2008. Let's get together with the economic, social council to determine the legal efforts to address these issues, as well as its opposition to its ruling, its relevant institutions. Otherwise, we'll forget about the steering wheel, and our car will roll off a cliff. While we're in such a wobbly state, I feel that if we take these precautions, we might be able to get them out of one place, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0077par0634	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 31st edition of the 443 Orders Numbered Bill. In the matter, we would like to request that the assistant secretary (e.g.) be changed to the assistant secretary (e.g. the assistant secretary). Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0078par0641	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0077par0642	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0079par0643	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0077par0644	Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0080par0646	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 31 of the Law Bill 443. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, on the basis of this bill, I would like to say a few words about the probabilities of the bag of law, which have been repeatedly highlighted by my friends so far. Even if it is done to speed up the legal process, such regulations, which are made without the opinion of relevant NGOs, add new materials to the commission processes, cause certain challenges. The bag laws also have a negative effect on the current legislation for the reasons I consider above. Because it's hard to control the whole, financial errors in the laws arise, causing mistakes in the law. This soon reveals the need to make a change in the laws that have been changed. And when we look at the bag bill that we're talking about here today, we see that from the Criminal Code to the Insurance Act, from the Law of Public Economics to the Law of Public Economics, we see that there has been a change of decision in the law and law that is unrelated to each other. It's the way the Justice and Development Party used to be. It's the way I did it. It's the way the logic of the Justice and Development Party came out once again. And I can't help but say that I find this law-making technique and this approach to the Justice and Development Party unsanitary in terms of legislation, in terms of the credibility of our Parliament. It's not just the law-making technique, or the bag-bag laws that are often brought before us, but the lack of understanding is also the problem. Since there is no search for reconciliation, the opposition's criticisms and suggestions are not taken into account, we now have to make changes in the laws adopted a year ago. I don't think that's what speeding up the legislature is all about. However, what the opposition says is wrong. The understanding is, somehow, we have a majority. Therefore, we do not take any suggestions into account. As long as there is a judge, such errors are inevitable. First, this approach needs to be changed. When that approach changes, I believe that all of the country's problems can be solved when the idea that Congress is the solution for everything. The reason this House exists is to solve problems. Whatever the problem is, no matter how complicated it is, this is the address of the solution. The Republican People's Party has highlighted this from the beginning and will continue to emphasize it. The Republican People's Party has set forth the need for reconciliation from the beginning and will continue to put it into place. If we want to establish a culture of compromise in our society and have a real democracy, we have to grow it here, under this roof. This requirement applies to the work of the Civil Charter as well as to all the problems of society that are expected to be resolved, as well as for the work of the constitution that lasts the writing, as well as for the work of this bag in law or any law. Where there's no compromise, there's no social agreement, no ability to live together. As these things cannot be mentioned, I have done them. A mature democracy cannot be spoken of where logic is valid. But you will accept what I say, and if we agree, we will compromise. It is not to be forgotten that it does not mean anything. If we, the representatives of the nation, cannot agree on even the slightest arrangement, then there is a serious problem. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course we don't have to think the same way about everything, we may not have the same perspective, we can perceive the world from different sides, but we're all in the same boat. In any case we don't consider it, I say that the loser will be our country and our citizens again, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0081par0654	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you would please raise your hands.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0082par0658	Mr. President, you just wronged us in the apricot, and you wouldn't, but you didn't.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit01spe0081par0659	Well, Mr. Aslanoglu, I won't do it again, thank you. Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 443. The commission and the government are in place. There is a motion on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 32nd draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. In the matter, we would like to request a change from the Undersecretary of Finance and Ministry of Labour and Social Security. İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0083par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0081par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0084par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0081par0015	Musa Çam, MP of İzmir, is demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0085par0017	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to Article 32 of the Legislature on Public Finance Number 443 and Editing of Debt Management. Now, unemployment insurance is a substance that has been in effect since 2002, and there have been about 3 million,623,879 applicants so far, and 2 million,791,380 people have benefited from it. Now, within ten years, over 3 million applications are being made within 11 years, but the number of people who benefit from this unemployment benefit fund is very few. The total amount of money that has been saved so far in the unemployment fund is $61 billion, but the conditions of taking advantage of the unemployment fund are so difficult, that unfortunately our unemployed brothers are not taking advantage of it. Sadly, our unemployed friends and friends are not supposed to benefit from the unemployment fund. Although we repeatedly warned and did not warn the Minister of Labour and Social Security and İSKUR, there has not been enough softening in this regard, nearly 11.5 billion dollars of this $61 billion have been transferred to the GAP over the past five years. In 2008, $1.3 billion, 4.1 billion in 2009, 3.6 billion in 2010, 1.2 billion in 2011, and $1.5 billion in 2012, a total of $1.5 billion out of workers and workers, were earmarked from the employer. Of course, the GAP is an important project, and we don't call it a resource transfer, but our unemployed friends at the unemployment fund need to take advantage of it, and unfortunately, our unemployed friends don't benefit from it, and this 61 billion dollars is being used in government bonds for other purposes, and we don't find that very true. The 49th article of unemployment insurance Act 4447 authorized the Social Security Institution to collect unemployment benefits, to keep records in the workplace, to be transferred to the fund and to make all savings available. In this framework, the Social Security Agency also contributes to the collection of employee and employer's share of unemployment insurance on behalf of the fund and collects those funds. He also receives a one-third contribution to the treasure. Now, along with this arrangement -- our relevant friends will talk about the material that comes after this -- trying to save a different one, that's not true. The right thing to do here is... now, along with this arrangement, the treasure is shut down here and the issue is to be handed over to ISKUR, Social Security and the Ministry of Labor. We don't think that's very true, and we think it's much more accurate and meaningful for the treasure to take together. Because in the event of the full withdrawal of the treasure, the Department of Labor will have to take over the problems, and we don't find that very true and meaningful. That's why we made this motion. We say that the solution to the issue is correct, and therefore we have made this motion by taking the responsibility and responsibility of the treasure together with the ISKUR, and the Ministry of Labor. We demand that you vote in favor of the motion. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0086par0024	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 33 of the same nature. I will study and process together, and if asked, I will make separate promises, or I will have them read their motives. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management 443 rows that shall be held in accordance with Article 33 of the Law Act. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0087par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0086par0039	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0088par0040	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0086par0041	Erkan Akçay Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0089par0043	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 33. I salute your honorable committee. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are one of the ways used to compensate for the effects of unemployment insurance, social and economic risk, unemployment. The unemployment fund was established on August 25, 1999, under the unemployment insurance Act 4447, when the National Movement Party was also a government partner in order to meet the loss of income due to the loss of their jobs to those who lost their jobs. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security data, the money in the unemployment fund was 61 billion 200 million Turkish liras as of January 9, 2013. Their interest revenue has been higher than 43 billion liras since March 2002. Between 2005-2012, 3 million, 222,000 people applied for unemployment benefits, and 2 million, 429, were given a total of $5.1 billion unemployment allowance. The amount of funding paid to the GAP is 10 billion dollars, so only 8 per cent of the money is paid to the unemployed while the unemployment fund is saved. This data shows that the unemployment fund does not serve its purpose. Unemployment insurance is covered by the premium system, so only registered employees can benefit from unemployment insurance. Unregistered employment is still at 40 per cent in our country. Since the conditions for applying for unemployment insurance are heavy, a significant number of registered employees have lost their jobs and are unable to receive unemployment benefits. Therefore, while taking advantage of a very narrow mass unemployment insurance policy, a significant number cannot be taken into social protection against the risk of unemployment. In many European countries, unemployment allowance is granted to those who are unemployed -- except health, children, and housing allowance -- at a certain rate of their final salary. An unemployed person is paid by 84% in countries such as Luxembourg, Portugal, Latvia, Switzerland, France, Slovenia, Germany, Iceland, Denmark. An unemployed person can receive funds for up to 38 months. Due to the heavy conditions envisioned in our country to benefit from unemployment allowance, the financial wealth of the unemployment benefit fund has increased exponentially every year. In order to benefit from the unemployment fund, a person who has lost his job has to work uninterruptedly for the past 120 days and pay a bonus of at least six hundred days in the past three years. In our country, unemployment allowance is granted for a period of 180, 2,40, and 300 days according to the working times criteria. Our country's highest monthly unemployment allowance does not exceed 80 per cent of the gross amount of minimum wage. According to OECD (OECD)'s report on unemployment allowance in 2012, the criteria for the implementation of unemployment insurance in Turkey are heavier than those in other countries. The conditions for applying to the unemployment fund and workers under unemployment insurance must be lightened. In this framework, the employee's access to the fund must be facilitated, the duration and amount of funding must be increased. When these are done, more people will benefit from the unemployment fund, and unemployment insurance will be activated and will serve its true purpose. The resources collected in unemployment insurance are not a public source, they belong to workers, and they are at a point of collateral. Our country's unemployment has increased again to double digits. An arrangement for the unemployment fund would have to be made, with conditions for applying for the fund and an arrangement for increasing the amount of time on the unemployment salary. The AKP, however, sees the unemployment fund, which is the right of unemployed citizens, as a source of funding for the budget. Because most of the money in the unemployment benefit fund exceeds $61 billion is in government bonds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, my respects to your High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0090par0048	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0091par0049	Mr. Young, you've moved too soon; there's no vote.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0090par0050	In case you forget...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0091par0051	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP who wants a word on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0092par0053	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 33 of the Law Bill 443. I salute you all. Dear friends, in this Parliament, especially in the 22nd and in this 24th term, I have not come across any legislation that has not touched the rights of employees, workers, workers, pensioners, or farmers. This bill is a bag of laws. I told you yesterday, 22 of the originals, 2 of the laws of the law, a total of 24 of the laws, and 5 of the laws. Article 33 is too short, I want to read two sentences. It says: The unemployment insurance fund from the Social Security Institution to the Unemployment Insurance Fund shall meet its obligations without interest if it is determined that more and/or less payment is being paid from the Undersecretary of the Treasury, and more and/or more in the interest of being transferred to the welfare fund. Dear friends, of course, this can be considered as taking from one pocket to the other, but there's one thing that's hidden, which is that institutions don't perform their duties on time. Now, this, of course, does not seem to mean much to you that it's not interest-free between institutions, but it does not seem to mean much to you that my friend, who just spoke on Article 32, and my friend, who was a spokesman for the National Movement Party, has just said that the Fund of Unemployment, unfortunately, has been used to be abused -- ten years, eleven years -- until now. For one thing, one of the most important rights of citizens in modern states is social security. In 1999, unemployment insurance entered into force as an instrument of social policy and modern and democratic integration into the modern and democratic world. In the first place, of course, the unemployment allowance was intended for employees... especially those who were unemployed for a certain period of time, but were not expected. Unemployment insurance did not provide the desired benefit, it did not. Because for today, my friend just gave me an old number, and I'll give you the number as of March, total funding is 62 billion 434 million,986 thousand liras. In your period, the government used this unemployment insurance as a means of domestic financing, almost as a means of financing the government, with the laws you passed in 2008 and 2009. It wasn't enough, you confiscated moisture revenues from the laws issued in 2008 and 2009. You transferred them into the treasure, you used them in other areas, you used them to enrich your allies. From March 2008 to March 2013, the share transferred to the treasure is 10 billion, 211 million, 524 thousand liras. The money spent in the same period as unemployment allowance is only $3 billion in 911 million. I'll give you the 2008-2013 numbers. It shows that the government is able to translate the government's budget, the current spending, from the back of employees. And now with this arrangement, it begins another path. Dear friends, I'd like to say clearly that you started with privatisation, to seize assets, to enrich supporters. By expanding the subcontractor system, you have suppressed the ability to buy labor, its wages, and today it is over 1.5 million. You've dominated the pressure on the workers, you've improved them. With public-private partnership and the do-and-work model, you've used it as a means of transferring public resources to allies, and you continue to use it. Now, with this bill, you're bringing a trampo, and you're showing that your eye is still on unemployment insurance funds, on the backs of workers, on the rights of workers. There's no need for such an arrangement, there's no need for such a clause. Indeed, this clause shows that public officials, SKK executives, ministries, do not perform their duties properly. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] Whatever misdemeanor charge they're guilty of, give them the punishment they need to commit. There is no need for this clause, I wish it to be removed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit02spe0093par0063	Thank you. I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0093par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on the 33rd Article of the Law Bill 443 was not sufficient to vote on the two proposals of the same nature. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, there are no motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 34: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey This is the 34th draft law of the current 443 rows. The amount in the state contribution account in paragraph 1 of the article shall be changed from the amount in the state's contribution account and from its returns. İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0094par0016	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0093par0017	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0095par0018	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0093par0019	Musa Çam, MP of İzmir, is demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0096par0021	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I've made a promise on Article 34, which is part of the Charter for the Editing of Public Finance and Debt Management 443 rows. It involves individual retirement, but before we get into it, I'd like to stress a few things about individual retirement. The Law was discussed at the Plan Budget Commission on 22/5/2012, in May of last year. Here in June, Turkey was met and implemented in the Grand National Assembly. We're bringing in a change now. First, I'd like to say a few words about individual retirement. Is individual retirement really a retirement? I'd like to mention this with a few examples. Life insurance is the truth, and the individual pension system has been transferred without facing the public. In fact, the individual pension system is sort of an investment counselling system. So it's like a consulting service where you should spend your savings, and remember, all private companies are going bankrupt. The premiums you pay for the individual pension system are in your name, in the investment vehicles you've been offered, in exchange for markets, exchanges, interest and other areas. So the rent, electricity, water, the monthlys of your staff, gas costs, which you've been paying for in your name, is covered by some of the money you've been paying for. In fact, I want you to know that while you're watching the commercial for the private pension company on TV, those ads are still being paid out of the public's pocket. You can only retire if you pay a minimum ten full years in individual retirement and complete 56. In fact, you're not going to retire here, you're going to evaluate your schedules. You may be retired. When you say that, don't think of the old SSC and BUG-KUR, where they're not liked and criticized, there's no relationship or similarities between them. Because when $210 a month is paid, the SEC may have paid you 625, 725, 825, 1 billion. BUG-KUR may have paid you 450, 650, 750, 800 liras, and you can have it until you die. After you die, he continues to pay the wives and children who remain behind. In individual retirement, it's very different. You pay $210 a month, and when you're 56 years old, no matter how much you've saved in your safe, you can take it all, or you can pay me $2,000 a month. But when you run out of money, they say goodbye to you. So let's not imagine a lifetime pension like SEC and BUG-KUR. The more money you have in your safe, the more monthly you get. Now, for example, given the real revenue of your investment today, you'll be paying $150 a month, you'll be saving $27,000 for 15 years, and if it's worth that much, you'll have $44,000. You can get this money for $2,000 at once, but when you're out of money, they'll call you goodbye. Now, friends, with this arrangement, it's been less than a year, and it's been ten months. Ten months ago, this has been adopted by your votes here in Parliament, and now a change is being made, and the reason for the matter is that: "We've done it wrong, we've done it wrong, we've done it wrong, we've done it wrong, we've done it wrong." What we said was that both in the Plan Budget Commission and in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, here in June last year, when the law was discussed, we did all these warnings, all these warnings: you're doing it wrong. We said, "You're doing it wrong." This needs to be renegotiated. The commission has to be discussed by social parties. We said. No, you said. You've brought and passed a bag of laws with stubbornness and insist upon it. Now, you've brought in a bag of 59 articles of law. In these 59 articles, you're revisiting this regulation that you made ten months ago in the 34th article concerning individual retirement. That's not true. Mr. Canikli, Mr. President, you said yesterday that you must take into account the opposition's words, warnings, criticism. This should be on the commission and here. We repeat this warning here once again and demand that you vote in favour of the motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0097par0034	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 35 that I'm reading: T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 35th draft law of the current 443 rows. Instead of the 3.75% rate in the article, we would like to have the expression added at the appropriate rate of the Ministry of Finance. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba Sedef Little Muharrem Light Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0098par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0097par0048	Government?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0099par0049	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0097par0050	Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0100par0052	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 35 of the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Loan Management 443, on behalf of myself and my Republican People's Party Group. In this motion that we've submitted, instead of a constant 3.75 per cent, we want the Finance Ministry to put up a fair rate -- in that sense -- because in three years, it would be more appropriate to express it at a different rate, not at a fixed rate. Dear MPs, in this sentence, I would like to express my views on some issues on World Water Day on March 22, 2013: It was celebrated with various events in our country: on March 22nd, World Water Day; on the day of Burma, the symposium was made, and then there were celebrations about Water Day in our village of Orhaneli. Orhaneli Chiefköy farmers and villagers were not allowed in the 3rd international symposium at the Bursa Merinos Ataturk Cultural Centre. I was in the hall, but since we didn't know about this, I'd like to express my regret about the lack of communication, the fact that these friends couldn't get into the hall, that I condemned the matter from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear MPs, there's been a celebration of World Water Day in Başköy, if you'd like to call it a celebration. But on this Day of Water, the Republican People's Party Mayor, the MPs, the Party Assembly, all the parties, including the AKP, the general council members of the province, DOADER, the highly valued presidents of the vocational chambers, the HRK Secretary, all attended. Because there's been a battle going on in Orhaneli Başköy for five years. Orhaneli Başköy deals with animalism and agriculture, a cute town 35km from Burma and Orhaneli. Our population is 300, but the distress of our brothers and sisters is run by marble furnaces on the water supply. Despite all the work we've done with the marble quarry companies here, I'd like to point out that even though the water's been contaminated, it hasn't been taken a step back. If you say, "What kind of steps?" these issues are raised by question proposals. The main villagers held walks in Bursa to express themselves at the centre, but no one considered them. The decision was made to stop the execution, but unfortunately, once again, when you go to the village, you see the water is dirty. I'd like to point out that there was visible pollution in the water samples taken by the Chamber of Chemical Engineers, the office of Bursa, who was with us that day, so for a year and a half now, the people of Basköy, our women there, our children, they refuse to drink dirty water because they don't use these faucets, even animals don't drink this dirty water. So, in the meantime, is the State Water Affairs doing any transactions? The State Waterworks is doing any operation, and they're opening wells, and I want to say that there is water in these wells at 60-70 meters, at 20-26 meters, at 20-26 meters, but despite the fact that there is water, although the water source is protected, I want to say that positive opinion reports have been given on the situation of marble furnaces expanding the field. So I'd like to say from here that if you were in the place of the people of Başköy, if there had been dirty water running through the fountains for a year and a half, what would you do? On their behalf again, I warn the authorities, and give you all my respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0101par0058	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 36 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-six of the 443 Sequence Numbered Legislature. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Aykut Erdoğdu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0102par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0101par0070	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0103par0071	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0101par0072	Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for a statement on the proposal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0104par0074	Mr. President, we're discussing the executive bill of the Treasury Undersecretary, and I've made a commitment on Article 36. I salute you all. Dear friends, the Undersecretary of Treasury is an institution that has the capital of public banks and manages public banks through the General Directorate of Public Economic Initiatives. Now, Mr. Secretary, while I'm on the General Assembly, I'd like to share with you a loan from the People's Bank. Dear friends, the People's Bank lends $5,850,000 to the Mexican company in 1998. Later, the crisis caused a problem in paying off this loan in 2001, and in 2009, it was decided to fail. A payment order is being sent to the company that has been decided to go bankrupt, and this payment order is $137 million. Then we made a mistake, we made a miscalculation. It's called a computational error. A month later, another payment order was sent, 51 trillion liras. Now, as a guarantee from this company, right next to Sabiha Gökçen Airport, there is a five million square metres of real estate, and at the same time, a very respected businessman, a businessman who works in the housing sector. And then, in 2009, let's say that this is going to be $51 million, and in 18/11/2011, AKABE is going to be delivered to a company called Foreign Trade, so this is going to be given to this company. Who is the AKABE company made up of? I'm not saying these names to blame, by the way, let me make it clear. Political power is my concern, and I'm telling them. Mr. Abdullah Tivnikli and I believe that the company was co-founded by two businessmen named Mustafa Latif Topbaş, which was called 51 million liras in 2009, is given to $15m in 2011, which is about $23-24 million. Two years ago, this loan was given to $15 million in 2011, with the guarantee of a very large and powerful businessman called 51 trillions, and the Bank's Law says: "If not, what happens to assets management companies?" You start a company, you loan it out with all the banking authority, you pass it on to him all the time, and the banking system collapses. What do you do after you buy this piece of shit for $15 million? Right away, that very valuable real estate is being put up for sale -- the old desk is being seized and put on sale -- and it's being set up as a negotiation. This land, with the lowest value of $200 million and the court's decision to determine, is being put on sale over $120 million, and the offer comes from just one firm, dear friends. This company is called Trust Energy. See the interesting thing is that the company and the company that are in this tender are the same address, and its employees are the same, and this company buys this property for $120,000,2000, and 60 million is paid across the board in exchange for this loan. So let's get back to the beginning: how much did the People's Bank transfer its guaranteed loan to, dear friends? For $15 million. What was the minimum amount of collateral in return? 200 trillion liras. Now, when you look back at this People's Bank, the Bank of the People's Bank is going to buy it in public. I used to work in the Treasury, there were things at the People's Bank that were a lot lighter than that, so they went to the Supreme Court. I'm asking the Minister: Mr. Ali Babacan, you are the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of managing this bank. I've explained all the documents of this, and I'm prepared to submit the documents of everything. How is it that the public bank, with a high quality of collateral, has a number of legal issues, but when you look at the size of the collateral -- on a loan from a businessman, which is a minimum of 51 trillion dollars in 2009, and 25 million dollars in average interest -- is selling it to this company for $15 million, and then this company hires it to build its own baby company and then tries to hide its own tender? What did you say about these banks when you came to power? You said "corruption," you said "corruption," you said "lawless." Look, corruption is more important because I wrote the previous People's Bank Report, and you're a power that sends it to the Supreme Court. Friends, it's really rude, it's very sad. I hope that the real public auditors will examine this issue without pressuring the auditors, and the People's Bank administration will be dismissed after this procedure. I salute you all. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0105par0083	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 37. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 37th draft law in the current 443 rows. Article 1 of the article. We would like to add the following statement to the end of his joke. These provisions do not apply to those who have been provided with an altitude for investment and who have not invested in investors who have been allowed to use their names. İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Aykut Erdoğdu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0106par0095	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0105par0096	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0107par0097	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0105par0098	Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for a statement on the proposal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0108par0100	Mr. President, in the absence of Mr. Secretary of State, I've explained to you how the former Undersecretary of Foreign Trade, the State Planning Agency staff, the rights to self-esteem, and how this process has reduced bureaucratic quality. Now, I want to talk about this in terms of the actual reflections of this quality miscarriage, the TELECOM privatisation. Dear friends, in 2005 Turkey's pupil was privatized by the Turkish company TELEKOM, where all the savings in the history of the republic were piled up. The privatisation price is $6 billion,550 million for 55 per cent shares. Dear friends, when this privatisation was being carried out, there was a rule in the law that said that the evaluation commission was set up to determine the value of this company before the privatisation was made. I mean, what is this evaluation commission? You're going to sell an asset, how much it's worth -- there's professional methods, there's specialists -- that's what they're going to do -- they're going to value these companies, and as a result, they're going to set up evaluation reports. The law would say that right after the privatisation tender, these evaluation reports must be submitted to public knowledge. This law has been changed, and it's said that after privatisation, it's presented to public knowledge. Dear friends, in 2005, our pupil, our darling, our tax-funded TELECOM company was privatized. Mr. Secretary, why hasn't this privatized TELEKOM company's evaluation report been released despite the rule of law? As a citizen, I don't know why it's worth what I and my ancestors owned, and it's a crime not to reveal it, because the law has a clear order on this matter. Not only in TELEKOM, but the evaluation report of any of our beings that have been sold is not publicized, dear friends. You can't do that, you can't hide that information, because it's the people's assets, the people have to know what they're worth when they're being sold. So, what happened when TELECOM was being privatized? Dear friends, because TELEKOM was an institution of monopolyal privilege, it could not be sold according to our Constitution. It was first put on the market, and due to the Constitutional Court and the Court's decisions, this sale was not actually possible, it was legally impossible, and it was privatized by the way that it rented concessions for 25 years. What does that mean? We're talking about an institution that we've entrusted for 25 years. Well, when you open the papers, you see the news: real estate for sale, $10 million, $15 million. In Sivas, in Tripoli, in Erzincan, in the most beautiful places. When we set up the Republic history, you can see that the land we've allocated has been sold. Do you ever ask yourself, "What right and courage is the property of a rented real estate, a property to be handed over? I'm asking on behalf of all of us, Mr. Ali Babacan, what legal authority are these real estates sold by? I'm not saying this, there's the State Control Board of President Abdullah Gül, he's writing a report, he says that the prosecution has put the contract on this and these real estates are being sold. This matter needs to be investigated. Now the MP says from the stand, the opposition says, the ruling MPs are curious, the President asks, and the owners of the TELEKOM company in this country are selling our real estate in front of our eyes. You can't allow it, it's a crime to allow it, these real estates cannot be sold, Dear Minister. Is that all they sell? Dear friends, while we were selling TELEKOM, we set up a lot of investment conditions, and while TelEKOM was being built in the republic, we laid the gold of this country with precious copper cables. Copper cables are being removed today. Copper cables are much more expensive than fiber optic cables. TELEKOM is taking out these copper cables, and instead, they're investing in much cheaper fiber optic cables. So, what's the money for these copper wires? There's about 15 or 20 million dollars worth of copper wire coming out of a city. In our most difficult years, we installed these copper wires for these communication lines. I'm asking the Minister, what is the price of these copper wires? Because there's still a share of treasure in TELECOM, 30 percent of it is still in the treasury, as far as I know.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0109par0106	You ask, Mr. Secretary doesn't answer at all.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0108par0107	Now, we believe that Mr. Minister is a proper minister within the government. I'm sure Mr. Secretary will be as determined about these matters as we are, but what I see is that the power of violent capitalism in this country's House and in its Prime Minister is very high. We have to surrender to wild capitalism. Today, we can't bring one law in favor of the employee; we can't bring law in favor of one worker. Whenever he comes, they say he's got a budget. But isn't there a budget for money going to TELEKOM? Shouldn't we take this money and give it to the staff? I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0110par0110	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0111par0111	What does the Minister say about these allegations, Mr. President? We should have received an assessment of the Minister.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0110par0112	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 38, which are of the same nature, so I'm going to read them and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 38th draft law of the current 443 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0112par0128	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0110par0129	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0113par0130	We agree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0110par0131	I'm reading the reason: It must be removed from the bill for no realistic and necessary reason why the Treasury is involved in real and corporate property. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: Because of the lack of public goods. Yes, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the 38th article of the bill has been removed from the text. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. However, in order to avoid any confusion, we will continue to discuss the current number of substances in the queue. There's a motion on Article 39 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 39 of the Law Code 39 and Article 4853 added to Law 4853, we propose and propose that the third clause of Article 2 of Article 2 of Articles be removed from the text of the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0114par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0110par0148	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0115par0149	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0110par0150	Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0116par0152	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Now, as with everything else, this law has not been brought to the General Assembly in the form of a healthy and participating law. A significant portion of the provisions brought under this bill are based on the laws adopted within the last year. In the commissions, if you had listened to a little bit of criticism from the General Assembly, maybe you wouldn't have needed these. But unfortunately, what we're saying today won't do any good because your ears are closed to the opposition's suggestions again. The AKP government continues to carry out statements and practices that encourage individual pension. A 25 per cent contribution to the premiums paid for individual pension insurance has been paid by large capital groups operating in banking and insurance, while the road to privatisation of the pension system is being opened. The retirement programme the AKP will implement is this, dear friends: increasing the age of retirement, reducing pensions by lowering the monthly bonding rates, and switching to the individual pension system. Instead of a public pension system, a social protection and solidarity programme designed to prevent employees from falling into poverty in old age, it is the government's desire to bring in the social government's individual pension system, which substitutes individual savings and leaves the individual alone in the face of risks. The old-age pensioners' problems haven't been solved. In developed countries, governments pay their citizens as much as they can if they can't find them. In fact, the government personally provides for the difference if the citizen whom he finds a job is paid under the standards of life. The AKP government, however, still has not been able to address the problems of age victims who were denied the right to retire in 1999 by an unjust law, who had completed 20 years in women and 25 years in men to retire, and who had completed their bonus days in excess, but who were waiting to be old enough to retire, who were affected by the retirement law in the grave. It is this House's duty, my dear friends, to resolve this injustice as soon as possible and to ensure justice. The pensioners of this country did not withdraw from any government as much as they did from this government. In the well-being of this country, it will raise the wages of millions of pensioners who have worked hard for its development, who have been sweating for years, and will be able to live as a human being, while the government keeps its hand out of the pensioner's pocket. It's not reflected in pensions, including GDP increases, but when pensioners start working because their pensions are failing to make a living, pensions are cut off from pensions, the government's three-cent pension is attempted to recover, and a contribution is taken when they go to the state's health institutions for treatment. There is no explanation except that the study punishes people who have to work because they can't get by for 15 percent of their pensions. The CHP has repeatedly expressed its demands in parliament, submitted its proposals, but all proposals and proposals have been rejected by the power. We want the pensioners' screams to be heard now. Instead of taking the job to another point, I would like to propose that a law be passed from this Parliament, a law be passed on pensioners, and I salute you all with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0117par0162	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 40th article, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 40th Amendment to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, which is currently held, and the 40th Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law Act. In one of the foreign languages wanted to take the examination for an internal auditor's candidacy test, which is included in the joke, we offer and propose the addition of the terms of the article from the substance text, as long as it has not reached the age of 40, as long as it has received at least 50 points from the Foreign Language Information Level Tespit Test and has not completed its application date. Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Lütfü Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-fourty-three Orders of the Common Legislature. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Kurt the Tremendous Digger of Rahmi Love Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0118par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0117par0180	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0119par0181	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0117par0182	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0120par0184	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the motion on Article 40 of Law 443. I salute you all. This clause is intended to protect certain rights of those who should be appointed as internal auditors, adding a new application of the duties and staff of the internal auditor brought in with the Law 5018. First of all, Law 5018 is a law that concerns public financial control, and we really care about it, and it is of course useful to control, fit and healthy to walk. Since there is a special compensation for certain professions mentioned in Article 657, there is an adjustment to include these internal auditing staffs in this chart, but there may be some concerns about the staffing that the government has been trying to do since the past, because some internal auditors are expected to be appointed by 31/12/2014, but some of them are expected to be appointed by 31/12/2015. I think it's helpful to seriously review some of the applications in this naturalism. Introspection and especially internal control are very important, but the importance of this has shown a lack of real understanding of the Great National Assembly of Turkey. The fact that the final account of the budgets in 2011 and 2012 was approved before the Court's reports arrived reveals a serious lack of control for the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Taking into account the motions made by our Republican People's Party friends on this matter, it is absolutely imperative that the Court report be submitted to the control, review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but the government, which avoids it now, has not thought of any application other than to improve the working conditions and the working environment of the internal auditors, instead, to extend the time required for those in the past to be appointed into these positions, even though they are in a position to be internal supervisors or specialists. However, it is the first duty of modern and modern public administration to make sure that these internal auditors are really practical, really operational. It is our first duty to eliminate any impropriety, any negativity, to make internal control of all institutions seriously applied in the sense that the law defines. Therefore, the interim 21st article added to Law 5018 will not meet that need. Therefore, we have submitted our motion to make a more comprehensive study of the matter, a more comprehensive law. If you support this, and accept this clause as you have just done, in accordance with the opposition's motion, I really think that we would have opened or initiated a democracy, a compromise in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I believe the adoption of the motion on Article 38 is the first to be adopted by the opposition in the General Assembly. And I thank our friends for that, but I think you should show the same sensitivity as the 40th article. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0121par0190	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1st Article of the 40th Amendment to Amendments to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, which is currently under way. In one of the foreign languages wanted to take the examination for an internal auditor's candidacy test, which is included in the joke, we offer and propose the addition of the terms of the article from the substance text, as long as it has not reached the age of 40, as long as it has received at least 50 points from the Foreign Language Information Level Tespit Test and has not completed its application date. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0122par0197	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0121par0198	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0123par0199	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0124par0200	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0121par0201	I'm reading the reason: Internal auditers are limited to administrations where they will serve with discrimination that is not applied to any professional groups in the public. Internal auditors must be allowed to move to other institutions. While this arrangement is granted a right by the end of 2014, it is unfair to apply the right to the period and also to the age and language requirement. Finance experts, revenue specialists and bookkeeping experts have been allowed to become interior inspectors. These experts serve in all the central and rural units. They've been chosen for special contest exams. They perform the control function according to their duties. They have all the qualities that internal supervision requires. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 41 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 41st draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Mahmoud Tanal of Rahmi Love Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0125par0215	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0121par0216	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0126par0217	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0121par0218	Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0127par0220	You're going with your wand, brother, it's embarrassing!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0128par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Because of April 5th Lawyer's Day, the lawyer is the man who defends man against authority. Lawyers around the world are not loved by political authorities. It's one of the most honorable but difficult professions in the world. Lawyers are not loved by political powers. Defense is a basic human right. That's why I'm celebrating April 5th, Lawyer's Day. When we look at the law in the next 443 rows... of course in the Great National Assembly of Turkey in recent years... there is a fundamental amendment in Article 91 of the Civil Code, but there is no definition in the Civil Code -- of course, there is no law in the Interior Law -- a concept that the political authorities usually like, but the opposition don't like. Why? Because under the 20th Article of the Civil Code of Parliament, a development, cooking, and maturing process is brought to the General Assembly in his kitchen concerning the laws that are on the agenda of all existing commissions. Of course, however, the laws are allowed to be cooked in commissions, matured as long as possible by political authorities, and even the NGOs, who are on the side of this law, are also allowed to join the law. But with the bag law, the NGOs, which are usually on the side of the law, have not been used by the expert on the subject and at the same time by the occupational commissions, among the questions of the second department, Mr. Secretary said: "Yes, in the last decade, the laws issued are not perfect. Indeed, one of the criticisms that is being made is as much as possible... indeed, this is one of the biggest criticisms in the law. What is it? One: that's not discussed in the residency commissions. Two: NGOs who are on the side of the law can't deal with enough issues and are being abducted from the community and there's a great deal of chance of making mistakes in that sense, and at the same time, if, for example, a law is wanted to be bypassed, if you want to be passed, that's how the law is passed by putting as many bags inside the law as possible. As a result, we can say that whatever the cost, the fact that the bag is applied to the road of law enforcement to speed up the process of legislation is very serious. The bag law is not only in the process of legislation, but also in the process of enforcing the bill or proposal. For him, this bag has to give up the law for as long as possible. Although the provision in Article 41 of the bill is related to the charge of qualified fraud in Article 158 of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237, here the penalty is usually passed from two to three years in the existing law, but the arrangement has been extended to three years. This here, again, in terms of criminal justice, I don't think it's the right thing to do. While we are on the subject of financing terrorism and the draining of the resources of terrorism, there is an event called "cyber terrorism," called "sanal terrorism." What is this? Using electronics, using the computer, for example, deleting the police department's intelligence data -- that's a real terrorist act. At the same time, the mixing of train lines related to the IT system is also a terrorist act. Of course, the use of the lower limit of this sentence, three years, seven years, because of the crime of fraud in the Turkish Penal Code of terrorism, is, in fact, socially, not an issue that fully meets criminal justice. This must be increased in terms of criminal justice. I thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0129par0229	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 42 that I'm reading: T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 42nd draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. In the matter of the real people in the case of the "T" matter, the "T" is in front of the "T" word. In accordance with the laws of the Trade Law, we offer the addition of the declaration of real people, except for companies established. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba Muharrem Light Süleyman Çelebi Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0130par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0129par0241	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0131par0242	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0129par0243	Muharrem Ilk, MP Erzincan, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0132par0245	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the matter. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course, as we always say here, as with every new law, you provide all the ease with your supporters. Erzincan will be fine if you allocate 1 percent of the ease you have provided for your followers and the sums you have provided for them to agriculture in Erzincan. As you increase imports in agriculture, of course, there is a decline in domestic production, because the products you bring in from outside are a little cheaper, so those who sow in Turkey are also distressed. What are you bringing? You bring beans from China, you bring apricots, you bring garlic; you bring spinach from Italy; you bring nuts from the United States; you don't grow in Turkey; you bring tangerines from southern Africa; you bring grapes, apples from Chile; you bring watermelons from Iran; you bring apricots from Malatya; you bring hay from Ukraine; you bring apples from Italy; you bring grain from Turkmenistan; you bring grain from Bulgaria; you bring straw from Ukraine; you bring straw from Ukraine; you bring watermelons, apricots from Iran; you don't have any problems; you probably won't have any problems. The import money you gave to agricultural products in 2012 went to $6.2 billion. In particular, you've given about $4 billion to products such as cotton, wheat and sunflowers that can be grown very comfortably in our country. If you'd spent it on watering problems in Turkey, if you'd spent it on other problems, Turkey wouldn't have gone out of its money, it would have come to the economy, but we don't care. Of course, you're supposed to support those who produce in Turkey, even though you've given endless support to people who import agricultural products. You keep telling me about those supports, the numbers, when you get out, but the numbers that are real aren't. Since 2010, you've paid over $3 billion for imported livestock, meat and meat products. Right now, we know the Meat Fish Association's stockpile is full, and even though you keep it, it's definitely full, but you can't just put it on the market and destroy it. Thus, the 6,000-dollar loan that you previously lent to milk cows was reflected in the citizen's interest of $7,000. With the loan he's taking, he can't sell it for 3,000 liras in the market with his calf right now. And you're not taking any precautions about that. Of course, due to your senseless war with Syria, the border trade was over, as well as the break-in of the illegal animals there was struck again. But, of course, you don't care much about that. Now, you've given $7.5 billion in 2012, and you're going to give $9 billion in 2013. A person who sows wheat does not pay $56 for gas per grain, or 4 dollars for support; nor does it cover 5 percent of its costs. You've saved about 3.5 billion dollars a year for agricultural workers, and you've saved 9 billion, which you've already taken out with the SVR and VAT money from the diesel. Of course, there was an 8 percent increase in agricultural products in 2012, but the fertilizer prices increased by 50 to 60 per cent, while there was an increase in mazoda by more than 12 per cent, which did not take precautions. Currently, more than 40 per cent of the agricultural people in our country live below the age of starvation. You're talking about endorsements, and when a law was being discussed here, I asked the President of the Commission, who was sitting next to Mr. Minister Erzincan, there a question, and he explained how much support he had given in exchange for that question -- how much support he had given Erzincan. Our deputy was happy there, too, because we scored a goal for the congressman. Your support for Erzincan is 25,789, 168 liras. Now, I'm going to call it Diyarbakir, whether it should be given to Diyarbakır or not, but it's 260,790,383 dollars given to Diyarbakır. Give him more. Why did I say Diyarbakir in particular? Is the money actually going to the people who planted it in Diyarbakır, because of the smell coming in, or do we want to know if it's going to the people who have been there, who have been to the people who have been there, who have been to the people who have been there, who have been to the people who have been there and have been to the people who have taken the money to sign the papers in Ankara, and we want to know, and we want to know that. Of course, in the electricity debt, in Turkey, you're leaning on people who don't even pay for illegal electricity in this agriculture. You pay the municipalities, you pay the TRT, but you don't pay the farmer's debt to electricity. Anyway, at this rate, he'll be completely dependent on imports. The truth will be seen in our country, but you, with your laws -- especially this law, not the bag of law -- it's like it's like a law that looks like BEM's bags -- you keep fooling people with it, you keep tricking us, but no one believes us, so you should know that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0133par0258	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 43: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 43rd draft of the existing 443 rows of legislation. We request that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba Muharrem Light Süleyman Çelebi Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0134par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0133par0270	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0135par0271	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0133par0272	Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0136par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. While we have found Mr. Minister here, wherever we talk about the problems of the farmers in Manisa, we are constantly presented with obstacles to economic governance, these are expressed. But it's important to say that when Manisa is making an effort to become an industrial city, and with agricultural products to support industry, the farmers in an agricultural town and Manisa are in a very difficult position. Regarding the grape maker, at a meeting this year when the ruling party members and I were opening the season, the ruling Manisa MPs had stated that this year the ruling party should not sell the grapes for less than $3.5, if the price falls under that price, come and find us. The farmers believed them, but the grape went down for less than $2.50, and stayed there for months. Manisa farmers under the interest clamp had to sell their grapes for $2.40, and if it comes down to less than $3.5, come and find me. In the past days, we have expressed it, and they have denied it. We found the videotape, we showed them, they were embarrassed, they were bored. Now, who's going to come up with this problem with the grape maker, who's going to be the ointment? We all promised olives and olive oil together at all the festivals of Manisa. The price of olive oil, 50 cents, would be raised to $1.50, and no one in the plan or budget would stand behind it. Let me give you a number: 11,000 manufacturers in Akhisar County deserve a bonus for olive oil, and only 150 of them get a bonus for olive oil. The procedure is very, very red tape, not worth the bird you hit. If this oil premium isn't raised to $1.5, and the procedure isn't reduced, don't let anyone come out like this -- so Malatya's apricot was talked about today -- we're paying for it, we're supporting it -- there's an illusion that it's the same thing -- nobody does it, nobody supports the little manufacturer. Also, I'd like to point out that if you're going to support the small manufacturer, you're going to have to pay a bonus for the grain olives. Your MPs swear there will be no return in Manisa. He turns around, he comes here, he breaks his word, and it's a real pain in the ass. The olive producer's spending has increased by 80 to 175 percent, but they have to sell olives at prices five years ago. One MP, the Manisa MP, says we saved the Akhisar farmer from his tobacco problem. He's finishing tobacco, so we've saved him the trouble of tobacco. He says. With Çukurova, the world's highest silk - length cotton is no longer in Manisa, nor in Adana. Thank God they've finished the cottonman. We went to Adıyaman, and the tobacconist in Adıyaman was crying blood. We used the expression in Manisa. We all saw how they reacted to it. But when I promised Adıyaman tobacconist at the tobacco market, I will carry your problem to the House, and I will speak to you. Some who said, "I will speak to you." One who was troubled with his own troubles, and his ointment found himself in the ranks of the ruling party. Now, there's a lot going on with the recluse. We're going to Osmaniye, the peanut manufacturer at Osmaniye says: I'm making it for $2, and I'm selling it for $1.90, $2. The interest on my back is also a burden that Mr. Minister gives to the Prime Minister about the last ten years, where the Prime Minister -- in his speech -- means something from ten years ago to today -- about how different it has been. Come and present it to the farmer in Manisa. The farmer's debt to foreign banks has increased 14 times in the last ten years. His total debt to banks and agricultural loan co-ops has increased 42 times in the last ten years. The price of a liter of diesel went up to $4 in 2002. Fertilizer prices have increased by 460 per cent in the last ten years. In the last ten years, we have become the largest cotton importer since China. Imagine the Chinese population, where we became the 2nd importer after them. We've stopped planting 3 million hectares of land. In 2002, 1 kilogram of wheat can be bought by 2.5 litres of diesel, and now you have to sell 8 kilos of wheat to buy 1 litre of diesel. I present it to the knowledge of the High Council. And for what you've done to this farmer, I say to you: Have mercy!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0137par0285	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 45, I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey This is the 45th draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. We would like to add the expression "responsive" instead of the expression "connected" at the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba Muharrem Light Süleyman Çelebi Aykut Erdoğdu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0138par0296	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0137par0297	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0139par0298	No, we don't.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0137par0299	Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for a statement on the proposal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0140par0301	Mr. President, I've tried to explain a few things in my previous talks about how the Republic of Turkey, the people of Turkey, the resources used in our nation's treasure. Now let me tell you the public side of this. I'll tell you how it's going on the public side. You know, our party's Adıyaman MP recently resigned and took over the ruling party. It is really necessary to discuss and discuss this in terms of political morality and ethics, but Adıyaman MP, 1 MP has resigned; there are now 10 Republican People's Party MPs. I'm Adıyaman's deputy in charge of the economy. From now on, I will follow the Adıyaman economy with all my zeal, just as I follow my own constituency, the entire Turkish economy. This party's political ethically controversial resignation has given us something, we've met the great Adıyamans, dear friends. In Adıyaman, as we roamed the streets, every tradesman, every tradesman we shook his hand with no exception invited us to drink tea at his shop. We have seen the purity and purity of the people of Asia Minor in Adıyaman, dear friends. But we also saw in Adıyaman, Mr. Babacan, that our resources are being squandered like this... there is a road problem in Adıyaman. When you look at Adıyaman, when you go on the road, it's built all over, but there's no work. There's investments everywhere, no investors. The roads are dug, no machines, the workers aren't working, and you're jumping up and down the road in two and a half, three hours, maybe 45 minutes. Perhaps if we transfer some of our resources from this treasure to Adıyaman, his economy, at least the economy that will be the way, can strengthen Adıyaman, dear friends. Adıyaman (Adıyaman) has a very valuable product: Tobacco. Unfortunately, it's a crime for the public, our own people, to carry and sell tobacco produced by our own farmer. But we've been importing tobacco for some time now because we've privatized TECEL. Today, British American Tobacco, Marlboro, Philip, whatever it is, these international companies can do all kinds of tobacco-related operations; they make all kinds of terrible money out of it, but as for the people of Adıyaman, it's a crime for them to carry tobacco. That, my dear friends, is to crush our own farmer in brutal capitalism. We're dealing with the same thing on the sugar beets. Look, you all have a sugar factory in your constituency, a beet farmer. Now, we've had trouble, dear friends: there's a big American food company. We make this American food company make starch-based sugar. It's a fact that starch-based sugar is carcinogen, it's accepted everywhere it threatens public health. Now, we give them 10% quotas, by law, and we increase that quota every year on the edge of the law without exception. So, what happens when you make starch-based sugar? And his partner is a very familiar Turkish company, and I don't want to mention his name. So, what happens when Cargill's company, the American food giant Cargill, produces so much starch-based sugar, just the health of our people? No, dear friends, sugar beets are getting quotas. Now, this farmer earns his living producing sugar beets, and what happens when you put them in jeans? You're putting a scalpel in his lifeline. Sugar beets can't be produced, sugar beets can't be produced... sugar beets aren't just a valuable product in the sugar industry, they're being fed for example, this time the bait prices are going up, and when the bait prices go up, people can't look at their own animals anymore, and this time we make dairy animals into cut animals. What's happening this time? We don't have animals, we don't have animals in Asia Minor, we're leaving Uruguay, we're starting to bring Angus. Who's going round and round? The Adıyaman, my constituency, happens to the farmer in Adıyaman, which is Malatian, and you see these people, you see people who are so far away from the relationships that wild capitalism has polluted in big cities, and they're so fond of this thing that they cut off one cow with one cow. Ten Republican People's Party MPs from Adıyaman will then bring all kinds of problems to the stand. I apologize to the people of Adıyaman on behalf of the MP who resigned from my party, but that MP will return to Adıyaman. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0141par0308	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 46, which I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 46th draft law of the current 443 rows. In the second paragraph of the article (b), we propose that the expression of ▪5000 TL (TL) be changed to ▪10.000 TL (TL). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Veli Ağbaba T. B. M. M. To his presidency. The current bill, 443 rows, is 46. We request that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Kamer Young Ramis Topal Muharrem Light Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0142par0325	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0141par0326	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0143par0327	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0141par0328	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0144par0329	Mr. President, it is only here that Mr. Kamer has to make a correction....that he has misspelled the name of the institution, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0141par0330	Mr. Young, you've failed the motion, it's not in order. Please, fix it.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0145par0331	What's missing?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0141par0332	You'll see what's missing when you get here, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0145par0334	We ask and offer. There you go.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0141par0335	Mr. Young, there's a shortage, and we want you to fix it. What's wrong with that? I mean, a lot of people are wrong sometimes, so I said it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0146par0338	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion on bill 443, or a proposal. Of course, every item has one motion in place. In fact, there are two parliamentary motions in each article according to the Interior Charter, and one of the groups' motions must be filed, but, of course, for some reason, the AKP has filed their motions...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0147par0340	We didn't fill it, you can't talk.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0146par0341	I mean, anyway, if you hadn't gotten me to talk, we'd have given it to you on every item, and it would have made you read your motions.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0147par0342	Look, we didn't give it to you to talk.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0146par0343	Whatever. We're just saying the right thing.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0147par0344	It's not true, we didn't.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0146par0345	Canikli, you've only just arrived in this Parliament, and I'm more senior than you. So don't get too involved with us. Now, dear MPs, of course, I've had some talks about this here since yesterday when the TV was off. Now, the AKP no longer has anything for the state to sell. What's he doing? Sir, he's starting a company called an asset rental company. There's no telling what kind of company it is. Sir, who are the organs, based on what? So, like I said yesterday, the father is an unknown baby, no head, no feet, you create such a crippled, bizarre being. And then you're going to bring it here, and then you're going to print out the state's most valuable properties -- and the treasure, and the treasure, and the treasure -- and you're going to bring it here, and you're going to print out the rent certificate in exchange for it. Who are you gonna sell it to? Probably because in Turkey, some of the AKP's groups have won the big money due to the privatisation of the KİT. They're taking them abroad with luggage; they're bringing them back from abroad and buying them. You bring in corporate tax exemptions and income tax exemptions. There's no inspection, there's no telling who took it. How much is the interest rate in this rent certificate, all of this in the square, not all of this is specified. At the same time, with this law, you're selling the camps the government currently has, where people who are doing public service, people who are really underpaid, take advantage of in the summer months. Their goal is to bring down this state in a completely economic sense, and therefore, as you have now established in your mind, this state, which is now read in Diyarbakır Square on March 21st, will be toppled the secular state of the Republic of Turkey. Instead, a new state will be established under the Islamic flag. Recently, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has spoken of the provinces of Kurdistan and Lazistan. Now, to his fellowman in the Black Sea, he says: "Look, we are building Kurdistan in the south. O Lazlar, let us also build a Lazistan. On the other hand, and on the morrow... they will come out and set it up. So this is a political staff that's a great betrayal of Turkey... this political staff has brought a number of regulations that will bring Turkey's head to disaster with new laws every day, create chaos, make people no longer alive in the country. As a result, of course, you're moving one step at a time, and then today, Mr. Recep has identified men of his own. Who are these guys? Is such an organization in the Constitution? No. Where are you going to pay for it? No. What are these guys gonna do? Now, what is your offer in the square of Diyarbakir... that Abdullah Ocalan has accepted? He says: "We will destroy the state of the Republic of Turkey, and we will replace it with a new state." This new state... Now, what will these wise men do? Who's he gonna talk to? It will go, and it will say to the citizens of the Republic of Turkey: "Friends, citizens of the state of the Republic of Turkey, you must destroy this state and be willing to destroy it. Instead, let us bring a new state under the flag of Islam, under the green flags! What does that mean? What's your assignment? We ask the government, the government is deaf. Well, brother, what's the point? At least as Congress, we have some information. Recep Erdogan, the men you chose here are right in your head. They go on TV every day, they do all kinds of ugly propaganda to bring down the state of the Republic of Turkey, and they throw all kinds of ugly accusations at this nation. This way, I mean, it's unclear what happens every day, what Turkey will do tomorrow. Next thing you know, you're up in the morning, big chaos in the country, big fight. Such a government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You see, the lines are empty, no one's coming against this House. There's no one in the AKP ranks. A coven like this can't actually function. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0148par0353	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 46th draft law of the current 443 rows. In the second paragraph of the article (b), we propose that the expression of ▪5000 TL (TL) be changed to ▪10.000 TL (TL). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0149par0360	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0148par0361	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0150par0362	No, we don't.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0148par0363	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0151par0364	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 46 of the Law Bill 443. In this proposal, we aim to address some shortcomings in the new regulations that have been tried to be brought to Article 30 of the Insurance Act. First of all, we need to consider very well that there are some advantages and disadvantages, as well as the fact that the instigation of insurance and the obligation to the arbitration system have been brought in. First, I'd like to point out that it's not the right approach for the investigation to be carried out against those who are not members of the investigation system. Secondly, and in our proposal, we need to make an assessment of these five thousand and ten thousand-dollar monetary boundaries that we're focusing on. The judge's decision, if it's within the 5,000 lira limit, is certain, but in many applications, even small amounts of damage put the taxpayers in trouble, and they have to go through with the fight for righteousness. Whereas we're here to eliminate a chance to object if we set a 5,000-dollar certainty limit. We're also making a mandatory deposit of funds. These are applications and substances that force the insurance referees to apply in this regard. And our 40,000-dollar certainty limit on this issue is actually numbers that have been put in the market and the real world without really considering it. Without calculating that 40,000 lira is a lot of money for many taxpayers in Turkey, without considering that 5,000 lira is a lot of money, without considering it, we will have to change these issues over time. So, at least you didn't accept our other bids -- let's say we have to raise the 5,000 lira limit to 10,000 lira added to the 12th joke, so that we can address the problems of our poor, troubled citizens a little bit more, because in Turkey, the Labour Minister is a good fee, but the minimum salary is still not 800 lira, and when you set a limit of 5,000, you leave almost 7-8 times the minimum wage to one person's judgment, and you don't even give a chance to object. For a minimum-paying citizen, however, we have to act by calculating that this $5,000 is 8 to 10 times its salary. If we don't make law in favor of disadvantaged groups in social events, we're going to have problems every semester, and we're going to get these oppressed people a little bit more crushed every semester. If there's 10,000 liras, at least we'll be over the limit of that certainty in a certain amount. In fact, we need to make a improvement on this 40,000-dollar appeal limit, an improvement, instead of protecting the insurance players of this market, let's take serious shots to protect the citizens, let's look at the accounting system in this direction, let's look at the insurance system in this direction. That's the formula for solving insurance settlements, discrepancies, a little bit more, without going to trial. If you don't make it happen, then every event, in the end, will create other challenges behind the investigation. With this motion, we think we should reduce it by a degree. We're waiting for your support. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0152par0370	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 47 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 47th draft law in the current 443 rows. When the governing body in the article shall be established, we shall also ask the member companies to replace the statement, which can also be demanded by the establishment of the administration, as well as by the predetermined procedures and foundations. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam Malik Ecder Özdemir Kazim Kurt Mustafa Serdar Soydan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0153par0381	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0152par0382	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0154par0383	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0152par0384	Mehmet Ali Sesam, MP of İzmir demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0155par0385	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the motion. I salute you all. Today, on the basis of this motion, I would like to share with you a very important problem. I just shared it with Mr. Secretary and Mr. Canikli. We had a law proposal to pay for the losses of the tradesmen and artists who were damaged during public investments. This bill has been rejected in this House, but with a few incidents, I'd like to submit to your assessment of the situation of the tradesman. We're investing in public. Let me give you an example of a few recent investments: we're now making a division arrangement. While making arrangements in the division, no one can give a clear answer as to how to meet the sacrifice of the shopkeepers who were victims while they were being built there. Dear friends, these public investments are three months, not five months of investments, but years of solid investments. In these investments, with limited capital, many of the tradesmen there face bankruptcy. Let me give you two examples of Izmir: because of the metro investment, I have offered the subway a law on a solution to tradesmen who have been victims of years of investment. We said to the city: "Serve it." They said, "There is no way we can do it in legal arrangements." We came to the House as a solution to this, and we told Congress that the motion for law in the House was denied. There, dozens of tradesmen had to go bankrupt. Now, can we say, because of a public investment, you shopper, the public is investing here, but with this public investment, you can go bankrupt, you can't pay your taxes, your insurance, your loan, and you have to withdraw from commercial life. Can such a state and state be fatherly? But that's how we do it today. We have very good suggestions for that in our law proposal. With the impact factor, we would like the governor, the big city, the trade room, the trade room, and the trade rooms to prevent him from going bankrupt in exchange for his tax, his insurance, his loans, and some support -- at least some influence -- to prevent him from going bankrupt. I'd like to bring this up once again with this bag of law today and get the attention of both the Minister and all the political parties. Mr. Secretary is a man from the trades department who knows the trades. I think you'll understand what it's like for a tradesman, for a limited-capital trader, for years of construction, what it's like to have him bankrupt and not be able to bring bread to his children. We have to find an urgent solution to this. But look, between Konak and Yeşildere, when they were being built the Konak Tunnel in İzmir, the people whose homes were damaged in the excavations were both paid rent and other benefits, while their homes were being repaired. Now, they're both public investments. There is no support for the shop that was damaged from the subway; there is rent for those whose homes were damaged; there is money to do that to the people who have broken down the house, and there is money to do that to the damaged. Now, that's not fair. Both public investments, both victims. We need to support both victims fairly. Mr. Secretary, I'm inviting you on this mission because it's based on money, and every job based on money is based on you. It's not gonna happen until you make up your mind, without your support. Because of this law and this bag of legislation, once again, I ask you to mobilize the IRS and the public administration in the adoption of this law. I'm waiting for a cure for the bankrupt tradesmen. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0156par0396	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion on Article 48, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 48 of the current bill. In the article, we would like to change the statement to the following in the newspapers with the highest circulation in Turkey. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bült Kuşoğlu Muharrem Ilk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0157par0407	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0156par0408	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0158par0409	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0156par0410	Emre Bridgelü, Tekirdağ MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0159par0412	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, we're experiencing a bag of proposals. This bill, which was adopted in the AKP period, envisions changes and amendments to more than 20 laws and regulations, but one interesting thing is that, as our commissioners say, the entire bill is being made within the last year. So, the AKP is making a law, making a decree on a law, but less than a year later, it's showing a change, a redesign. What does that tell us? In particular, it shows how carelessly, carelessly, without listening to anyone, and that's how long it takes him to make the law. Then come back to the House, and let Parliament's work be tied to it, and the MPs will act on our orders, change what we want. Now, of course, the Parliament that's working on it, the Parliament that's been working overtime on it, unfortunately, doesn't deal with the real problems of our citizens at this level. Look, there's a chapter in the law, it's about unemployment insurance, and it says that we, of course, when there's so much money in unemployment insurance, we expect that there's a shortage of unemployment insurance, that there's a short period of time, that there's a small price, that the amount that's being paid doesn't satisfy the needs of the people. While the AKP is waiting for an arrangement on this issue, the AKP is not doing a study at the point where the unemployment salary is increased or the deadline is extended; the government does not pay interest if this unemployment salary is not paid on time; the state, the ministry does not pay interest. It brings an understanding such as this into the bill. Clearly, the AKP is taking away the rights of the worker, the employee, the worker. Of course, these are the ones that are involved in this bill, and the lives of our people, our society. I was in Tekirdağ Province, my constituency for the weekend. I was in Tekirdağ province with our farmers, our livestock-related citizens. You know, there was a serious flood in Tekirdağ province a few months ago, and in that flood, our farmers were seriously victims; their animals were destroyed, their farms were unplantable, the stables were destroyed, the houses were badly damaged. We've done a lot of work on it, made demands on it. The government made promises, the ministers made promises, but let me tell you, the sum paid in return for that promise: a total of $677,000 was sent to Tekirdağ province because of the flood that thousands of people were victims and factories couldn't work. Is he kidding? Is the government sending alms? The province of Tekirdağ is a county that pays taxes on the state in the 9th place, but in return, when it's damaged, it can't find the state with it, and it sees the price for our people as a handout. I'm telling you, he's got to fix this, he's got to have a government here with people who are victims like this. Other than that, our farmers also have a problem with: you know, especially with the support of farmers whom the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism distributes, such as alms, there are some interesting practices at this time. On the basis of TÜİK data, we will apply TİİK data to farm support in the implementation of the district's agricultural directorates. Then he gave up, and the app came to a ridiculous point. In places with 600 kilograms of 650 kilograms per turnover, 350 or 400 kilos are on the agenda to pay support to our farmers. And if that's not enough, the trouble with satellite photos is that our farmers can't be paid for these supports. With regard to these, our citizens are very troubled, but especially our citizens who live on livestock are much more troubled. With loans from the state, it's $5,500, $6000, the price of the animals they bought today is $2,500. Why? Because the state has brought animals from the Ministry of Uruguay, from other countries, and has made them rich with animals, but has victimized our farmers. I salute the House by saying that the government must deal with the problems of the people and with the problems of the citizens.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit03spe0160par0420	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0160par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 443. The commission and the government are in place. There are two proposals on Article 53 of the same nature. I'm going to teach them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion makers, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 53rd draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. We ask that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Aylin Nazlıaka Mosa Pine Kazım Kurt of Rahmi Love The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0161par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0160par0019	Does the government agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0162par0020	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0160par0021	Yes, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0163par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in my speech on the general, I briefly stated the issue of the Foundation. My friends have had some objections. I've made a commitment to this motion to make certain matters clear. Now, first of all, dear friends, this thing here has a legal reason for economics. We can remove this clause for economic reasons, but we need to uphold the law we've made ourselves legally. So, look, here I have documents on the equity structure that I got from the Foundation's own activity reports, from the website. In the report, it says -- 2005 -- the Foundation General Directorate of Foundations, (B) Mülhak Foundations. (B) in the hand of (A). I am moving to 2006:, "A") General Directorate of Foundations 43 per cent, (B) General Directorate of Foundations 15.44 per cent. These are from the Foundation's own operational reports. The year 2007 continues the same way, 15. So there's something here. We did it wrong. You might say, there's a lack of information here. You might say, "Well, now we're taking it all away." As this law came out, this Parliament issued that clause for the protection of the foundations with your recommendation. Look, I repeat, outside the Foundation, there's no other agency, institution, company, company, anything that has more than 51 per cent of the Foundation General Directorate, so we just put that clause in there. It's too much now. Let's cut back, I've told you before. On one hand, we're dealing with these, but on the other hand -- I just said -- unnecessary laws. I'd like to remind the Minister of that, as we've seen him here. Mr. Minister, you're in charge of the economy, and although you're not the Minister of Labor, and you're not the Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr. Hayati Printer, but today, what you call "committee men," a list of what we call "AK-gil men" has been published, and I've been sad to see here that representatives of the business community, representatives of the tradesmen -- I don't know if they'll participate in these things tomorrow, but we don't find it true on behalf of them, in this way of economic institutions, civil society organizations. Even if their president joined, we don't think it's right in the way that represents all those segments. We don't think it's right to build a political propaganda material in this way because they represent thousands of merchants, industrialists, tradesmen, they represent the farmer. Hopefully, some have announced that they will not attend this meeting, but we hope the others won't. It's a political thing. If the Justice and Development Party is going to produce something and is making a decision, if they're making a call, they have to pay the bill himself. So by spreading it to something social... the political criticism we're doing here now... I'm really curious if the presidents of these institutions will accept it at that time. So, you're actually putting something like this as a social consensus, but I think, on the contrary, social agreements are very disruptive because I'm not the one who thinks that representatives of those institutions are going to agree and agree to the talks that the presidents of these institutions are going to make. I've told you before, I say, look, don't tire the country out with these political things. I'd like the President of the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges to take initiative on economic issues; the President of the Chamber of Business and Artists, the President of TESK, to come here in trade-related issues; take initiative; let the President of the Agriculture Chamber take initiative on the problems that are involved in agriculture; let's solve them. Look, I told you in the first place, we, the National Movement Party, are always helping you solve these problems -- if there's anything reasonable. Within this law -- our friends will bring it in a little later -- we immediately sign on the issues we agree on and say, "The way of the mind is one." So once again, we call upon your conscience. There may be things here that you all don't realize, you may look at it differently, but I think it's time for you to think about it one more time and avoid social peace-breakers. Let's not associate these organizations with political decisions. On this occasion, I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0164par0032	Thank you. Kazim Kurt, MP of Eskişehir, wants another word on the same motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0165par0035	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on Article 53. I salute you all. The second joke of Article 28 of the Law of Circumstances has been removed, in this article and in this article, perhaps the most important article of the Bill 443. This very innocent motion, in fact, is both wrong in the legal sense and politically incorrect. It is also a concrete recognition of your party's lack of lawmaking techniques. Because, then, on February 20, 2008, the Republican People's Party MPs object to this law, and you're wrong. He said, "You're wrong. You've made law without listening." Now, for what reason, after five years, what reason we're removing it, which is why we haven't been able to make a very reasonable explanation about it, and the really weird thing is that we're trying to do it with an application that is not in the democratic state of law, with a reverse law clause, so we're ignoring it from five years ago. So it turns out that more than 50 per cent of its capital, which had previously been made by the 28th article (2), was to be divided into 10 per cent of the institutional tax account for the foundation's cultural assets, while for five years it had to be used to repair them. Why didn't he leave? Who didn't? They were given false information about the demands on this issue, and it failed to be carried out because of that false information. So, in five years now, the Bank of Foundations General Directorate -- Mr. Günal just told me -- why didn't he reserve these 10 per cent for repair of the foundations, even though it was so efficient, so profitable? Why hasn't a ruling official questioned this or made a request at the Foundation General Directorate? Right now, five years ago, the law was lifted and a huge favor was made to the Foundation Bank, and when we asked how much it cost, we didn't get it right and clearly. Now, if we start a tradition of law enforcement in Turkey that isn't in the legal state, we can't prevent it. It's better to give that up quickly. Again, if you are prepared to privatize the Foundation Bank in a different way, you should also give up on it. There is no point in privatising it, and there is no legal reason for a clean sweep of this privatisation to be used as an instrument of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now, in an environment in Turkey where the foundations really need repair, care, we will forgive the money we have never received from the Bank of the Foundation, and we will not know the amount of it, and we will break the law, and we will bring a very bad law practice, called the "makabline chamil" in the past, to draw past what the ancients called the "makabline chamil." At the same time, this clause is damaged by a freak such as the fact that it has been valid since February 27, 2008 in Article 58 (d). For these reasons, support our motion. Just as in Article 38, let the opposition and the government make the right law with the right approach, and please withdraw this. I'm saying support our motion. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0166par0045	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions for the new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the meeting of the Commission as a new clause will be open on the motions which the commission has mostly participated in, and the number of motions laid out in this article can be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following item be added after Article 53 of the 443 Numbered Bill of Laws, which is currently in place, and that the material numbers be identified accordingly. Nurettin Canikli Oktay Vural İdris Bauken Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Günal The joke, dated 54 - 13/2/2011, has been changed in the following way, as follows, on the restructuring of some of the Acquisitions No. 6111 and the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act on Changes in Some Laws and Laws (21) of the Law. By the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, 3 per cent of the debt, which has been used by the Ministry of Agriculture or Co-operatives or by the partners of these cooperatives, which have been used as part of the law that changed this joke and has been implemented, has been restructured according to the legislation on the law concerning the loans that have been implemented, but not paid in installments, but the Department of Food and Animal Agriculture has been established until the end of the eighth month, but will be paid by the start of the period of the period of the year, and will receive the same amount of the same amount of credits as the first installments, which have been paid by the same amount of the law that has been paid by the first time. The coefficient is applied for each number of installments that should be paid (1.05). B) The case will be terminated if the debtor submits an application to take advantage of these joke provisions and the executions will be halted if the law has been sued and/or carried out before its adoption date. As part of this joke, the debts of the co-op and/or partners whose debt is structured will be deducted from their accounts for future liquidation. C) All of the purchases included in this joke are calculated and accounted for in accordance with the legislation that will receive the amount of time and the amount specified in this joke. In exchange for what comes within the scope of this joke, the amount paid before the Law comes into effect is not rejected or returned. D) Reconstruction does not require the silence of the financial and personal collateral of the debt, nor does it allow the debtor's joint debtor and incumbent guarantors to withdraw from bail. e) As long as one of the installments which should be paid is not paid during the period or if the payment is not paid, or if the payment is short, the payment of the installments will be paid along with the payment of the installments followed by these joke provisions. f) According to this joke, the payment of the installments will be used in accordance with the late payment hike set by Article 51 of the Law 6183 for each month and for each fraction delayed. The right to take advantage of these jokes is also lost if the payment of payments not paid during the period or the payment of more than two installments is not paid in the manner specified. G) The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, with the view of the Finance Ministry. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0167par0069	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0166par0070	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, a new clause has been added to the bill. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Adding the following clause to the amendment of the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management in 433 rows, following Article 53 of the Law and Law Act. Nurettin Canikli Necati Özensoy Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İdris Bauken Akif Çağatay Kılıç Article 54. It is dated 22.04. 1983 and added the following temporary clause to the Law of Political Parties 2820. (Temporary Article 19.) - The amendments to Article 74 of the Law of Political Parties, dated 13.02.2011, and Article 6111, are also applied to audits that have not been concluded by the Constitutional Court as of the date the amendments have been adopted. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0168par0084	We agree with the motion only mostly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0166par0085	Since Mr. Commission has joined, I'm calling for a review of the motion as a new clause, most of the time. Anyone? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, a new clause has been added to the bill. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Adding the following clause to the amendment of the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management, which is currently in view of the 443 rows, after Article 53 of the Law and Law Act III, and dictating the following articles accordingly. Nurettin Canikli Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Günal Justice Kurt Recep Special Osman Boyraz Muhammad Bilal Macit Mehmet has arrived Article 7 of the Law on Agriculture Sales Co-operatives and Associations No. 54 - 4572 has been added to the following article. After 1/5/2000, it is the Minister of the Treasury, following the completion of the liquidation process and deletion of the Union's trade record records, following the release of loans from the Price Stabilisation Fund (DFIF), and the release of this item in the three months following the release of this clause, the Union's decision to liquidating its loans and loans from the DFIF due to the release of its release, and the decision to submit its loans to the Ministry in order to benefit from the provisions of this substance, and the Minister of the Ministry of Ministers is responsible for its decision on the removal of its trade records, following its release of its release of its trade records and its proposal, on the basis of the DFIFIF-based loan loans and on the basis of 21/7/53, and on the Law. The Union's debt to public institutions and institutions does not prevent the process of liquidation and finalisation of the Union's debt. The withdrawal of the Unions, which has decided to liquidate, will not be imposed on interest and delay from the day its decision to liquidate its debts and ferses is published in the Trade Register. The issue of the discharge is halted by executives, surveillance and foreclosures carried out on the Union and its executives regarding debts. In cases related to these debts, the annulment and abandonment will be decided to stop the trial by the courts until the proceedings are completed. In the process of liquidation, if the assets that have been sold and sold, all the tacits will be removed by public administrations to address the notification of the liquidation board in the move on the price. If the process of liquidation and abandonment is completed, the proceedings which have been halted will automatically be dropped by the process of execution, surveillance and foreclosure. The provisions in their own legislation regarding the liquidation of the Unions are not applied to the Unions, which have decided to liquidate under this clause. As a result of the liquidation of the Union's assets, income is primarily used to pay off debts to its employees. Increased values are distributed in accordance with Article 206 of Article 2004, dated 9/6/ 1932. After the liquidation process is completed, the amount remaining in case there is any plus value is transferred to the Treasury. This clause is not subject to additional payments to partners for balance sheet deficits stemming from public remittances. For the Units who have returned from liquidation and abandonment before the proceedings have been completed, interest and delay sentences, which have not been imposed under this clause, have been recalculated from the day they were frozen, and cases which have been halted by execution, follow and foreclosure. Any statute of limitations or deniability does not apply between the date of the liquidation decision and the date when the liquidation has been closed or when the decision has been cancelled. The Unions' personal responsibility for those debts, for those who have not been brought to the judiciary, for those who have not been brought to the judiciary, for those who have not been taken to the judiciary, are not to be members of another board of directors and executives who have been identified as a result of the Ministry review, or a partner, representative, manager, and board of directors together. No other Union can be formed on the matter of the Union's operation. The Minister of Finance is authorized to register the assets of the Treasury in relevant state accounts, depending on the nature of their assets, after completing debts and liquidation, which are acceptable to the Council of Ministers. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause and the liquidation process are determined by the Council of Ministers' decision to be referred by the Ministry on the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0169par0109	We agree mostly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0166par0110	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anyone? No. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Thus, a new clause has been added to the bill. The numbers of the newly added substances will be identified during the writing of the law. Now, we'll continue negotiations over the existing clauses of the bill. There is a motion on Article 54, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 54th draft of the current bill 443. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Ali Halaman Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0170par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0166par0125	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0171par0126	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0172par0127	Motive... It should be removed from the bill, since it is not related to the bill.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0173par0130	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 55, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 55th edition of the 443 Orders Numbered Bill. In the third article of the article, the price of the sale is to be removed, and at the end of the seventh joke, an advance payment will be made to interested institutions to be closed the same year. We offer and propose that the statement be added. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0174par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0173par0141	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0175par0142	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0173par0143	Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0176par0145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our motion. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu, our Istanbul MP, has just expressed himself. We have gone from Adıyaman to 1; we have come ten; we will come ten; we will come a thousand; but we will not leave Adıyaman without an owner; we will not leave Adıyaman without his national will. The tens of thousands of games that were given to our party at Adıyaman are a result of a great injustice, and as a result of a great lack of conscience, neither our conscience nor the Adıyaman voters, nor even the voters of our party, have been satisfied with being taken away in a very controversial manner in terms of ethical values. We went, we saw him in his place. When we went to Adıyaman, we saw something else. There's a strong textile case in Adıyaman. We couldn't believe our ears, our vice presidents asked many times. When you said, "What was your request?" -- we expect advanced material demands -- we worked seven days a week, four weeks a month, thirty days a month, and we just wanted to rest on Sundays. There was no entry in the mess hall, no food to be eaten; we wanted the mess hall to be fixed a little bit, and he put us in front of the door. They said the mighty textile workers. Well, don't you have a union? There's a union. They said. He has the name of the union, he doesn't exist. In the past, they called that union a yellow union, we didn't believe it, but now they call it a bad union, and we've seen where that white union got us. We asked him, what does this union do? He never stood behind us one day. Friends - to union workers - resign from the union, go, it will take you. This union says, "This union gives you advice." Who's it up to? It's up to right-hand people. What union? PRIVATE PIECE OF IPLICS. So we said to ourselves, how does this work? There's a lady there who said, "Is there anything?" He said the governor himself called us. From here, we report the Governor of Adıyaman to the High Assembly. He called the union women one by one, and said: "Resign from your union, and come to me, and I will bring you back to work."
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0177par0153	No way!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0176par0154	Do you not believe that such an immoral offer was made in Adıyaman? Arise, go, enter the resistance tent of the Mighty Textile, where there are beautiful women, each with their heads covered. Those women say: "The governor of Adıyaman is calling us one by one to resign from our union." Ask him. If he says he didn't, we, the 10 CHP MPs, are willing to take that governor and face those women in that protest tent with you. We're all witnesses.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0178par0156	There's no governor left in the country, they're all AKP people.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0176par0157	Those women cry, "We can't buy milk for our child, we can't bring bread to our house." Those women are all tied up. You know, one of those headscarf problems where you always get a political rant over it. Friends, the eyes of a woman in a turban are the same as the tears of a woman without a turban. For one thing, understand this. We don't discuss what the turban covers, we respect all of them, but the turban doesn't cover poverty, the turban doesn't cover the immorality, what you call the unionist there doesn't cover the theft of labor.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0179par0158	Free, calm down. Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0176par0159	Put two deputies in charge so they can talk to the poor people there. Strong textile workers say that the right-to-result that we have been cut off from our salary and paid dues has not claimed us.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0180par0161	Isn't Salim nice here?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0176par0162	The Justice and Development Party that we all voted for didn't take care of us. There's only one Republican People's Party that's claimed us, but other than that, all the doors have closed in our faces. Are you saying no? Let's go! The tent is there, 200 strong textile workers, there, the Governor of Adıyaman, who you appointed, stood behind, used as the mayor of the province. Let's go! Rise up and face Adıyaman. Mehmet Metiner went there, and he said, "Friends, you're putting on a show." Wherever he goes, like Mehmet Metiner, he makes a scene from every seat. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're not ashamed to send such a person there who's all polemic and make fun of those workers. Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0181par0168	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0182par0172	Mr. President, there's teasing, there's teasing, there's free private. Maybe he's got a say, Mr. President, if anyone wants a word.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0181par0173	Mr. Agha, if you want my word, I'll give it to you, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0182par0174	No, not me. Free Special has made a heavy taunt, he has made a heavy insult!
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0181par0175	There's a motion on Article 57 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 57th draft law in the current 443 rows. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam The Father of the Father of the Sons of the womb ▪ Turkish Sugar Factorys Inc. At the latest, 30,06,2013 is removed from the privatisation program. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0183par0184	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0181par0185	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0184par0186	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0181par0187	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0185par0189	Mr. President, thank you. So I went to Adıyaman, with Free Special, Aykut Erdoğdu, and ten of my fellow MPs, and I heard with my ears the immorality that was there, and the reaction that the Adıyamans had to this immorality. They say, Adıyamans: "Thiefing is not just stealing money from your pocket. Stealing isn't just stealing biscuits from the grocery store. The theft can't just be stolen from shops in Antwerp. The biggest theft, the biggest fraud, is stealing votes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, of course there is an issue. I said this because my friends asked me, "What did you see in Adıyaman?" Now, we have an issue called sugar factories in Malatya, Turkey. What happened here is no different than what happened in Turkey. These sugar factories have been hurting for years. Why is he hurting me? Because the government wants them to suffer. He's trying to get it into privatisation, so the factories can damage it. Last year, we, the Republican People's Party, have uncovered this corruption, this corruption in this sugar factory under the name of specialization, with our great interests, and we've brought it to Parliament's agenda, and thanks to them, friends at the ruling party have postponed privatisation. But still, unfortunately, sugar factories haven't been removed from privatisation. We want the sugar factories removed from privatisation. Since it was part of the privatisation, since 2004, there has still been no nail in the sugar factories. That's why sugar factories are hurting. Is it just the sugar mills that do the damage, dear friends? Look, they're damaged, they're shipping to those sugar mills, they're people who eat bread. Five thousand families in Malatya, who planted sugar beets, unfortunately can't plant and are in a difficult position because they can't produce. Now, dear friends, there's also a problem with gangrene in the sugar factory: there's a group of workers who work 120 days a year, 90 days a year, which is a total system of slavery. He worked 24 years -- I just talked to him -- looks like seven years, worked 30 years, worked 2,500 days. Mr. Secretary, of course, he can't hear us. Mr. Secretary, it's going to take about a hundred years for these to retire. I'm asking everyone with a conscience to hear the voice of these workers. It's impossible for these people to retire, the workers who work in the sugar factory. The Minister also cared about the worker. Of course the minister doesn't. Now, friends, there's an institution called the Highways. On the highways, dear friends, 8. I'm going to tell you about a tender at the District Directorate, and I'd appreciate it if you'd listen, dear MPs, if you'd pay attention. 8. District Directorate Elaziğ -- central branch -- Adıyaman, Bingol, Malatya, Arabgir, Tunceli -- was handed over to the firm for 40.3 million euros, as of April 1st, as part of AKP's so-called specialization practices. Workers working as subcontractors on the highways were also handed over to the contractor, such as the services of the highways, although there was a judicial decision in the middle. Look, I'm getting your attention here. Workers working as subcontractors on the highways were transferred to the firm that received the tender. When did this happen? It was April 1st of 2013. The last example we know of is from African people who were sold in the African slave market in Africa. Still, in 2013, selling people is, at least, a misdemeanor, a sin, friends. Is there such a disgrace? And in this tender, it's all -- the workers are screaming, the union is yelling, the union is screaming -- there's different things, there's different smells. Look, the cost of this place is $19 million, and the highways are giving it for 41 million TL, friends, for 41 million TL. I don't know whose pocket this difference goes to. Moreover, the government is still supplying all the equipment the contractor will use in road construction. The government's tools, the grapefruit, the machine, unfortunately, are left to rot in the parks of the highways. These highways are a total disaster. The subcontractor system here is a slave system, a system. Hospitals, roads, agricultural businesses, everywhere... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...containment workers are being employed. Dear friends, this is a slave order. I also condemn those who support the slave order.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0186par0201	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 58: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 58 of Law Bill 443 be changed as follows. Nurettin Canikli Ramadan Can Recep Special Osman Boyraz Muhammad Bilal Macit Article 58 - This Law; A) has been published on the date of the release of 2, 8, 14, 22, 23 and 42 articles 29/6/2012, B) Articles 16 and 17 on 1/1/2014, C) Article 19 on 1/5/2013, Six months after the release of the first joke (b) of Article 45, D) On the date of its release of Article 52, dated 27/2/2008, e) In the history of its expiration, it shall come into effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 58th draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. We propose that the article (a) be removed from the text of the article of 29/6/2012. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu Mahmut Tanal Ali İhsan Kokturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 58 of the Law (a), (c), (d) be removed from the text of the substance of the amendment to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management under some Law and Laws. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0187par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0186par0232	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0188par0233	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0186par0234	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0189par0236	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 58. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, according to Article 28 of the Act of the Foundations, the Foundation has to transfer 10 per cent of its tax-tax year after 2008 to the General Directorate of the Foundations to be used every year to repair its cultural assets. Between 2008 and 2011, a total of $756 million has not yet been transferred to repair the foundation cultural assets. In Article 53 of the Bill and Article 28 of the Act of the Foundations, the second joke of Article 28 of the Act is lifted from February 27, 2008, and the sentence for cuts which should be transferred by the Foundations General Directorate has been lifted, and the date of this Article 53 is made valid on February 27, 2008. The government points to the fact that the Foundation is open to the public and that the privatisation process is likely to be affected. However, when the Foundations Act was issued in 2008, this Foundation was a public company in the process of privatisation. Instead of opening an investigation into people who haven't paid the Foundation General Directorate since 2008, the government has issued a reverse sentence to cover up this mistake. The fact that the Deputy Prime Minister and State Speaker of the Foundation, Mr. Arinc, are not here is also an indication of the government's importance to the foundations in these law talks, which are very important and very important. We are members of the foundation civilization, but hundreds of foundations have been destroyed, thousands of historical artifacts are neglected because they are unable to perform necessary restorations. When the Foundations' General Directorate is short of money for restoration, how will they repair cultural assets belonging to the institutions? On 15 November 2000, talks were held on the draft bill for amendments to the Turkish Bank of Foundations Act. I'd like to make a brief transfer from Mr. Bulent Arinc's speech during the talks of this bill. This will also be an interesting example of the conflict that has been set during ten or so years of time. Mr. Arinc says the revenues to be made by this bill -- the revenues of the Foundation of Foundations -- should be spent for the maintenance of the foundation's works, which are very rich in our country. You can't disagree with all this. The foundation is not owned by the state, nor is the state owned by the Foundations Bank. In this case, the state's sale of a bank that is not its own is contrary to the rule of law and universal law, which finds its testimony in Article 2 of the Constitution. The sale of the Bank of the Foundations of Turkey was contrary to the establishment of this bank as well as to Law 4588, and it is contrary to the bank's purpose of establishment, he says. Now, God's wisdom, dear friends, does not transfer enough money to the Foundations General Directorate. Now the foundations are tied to Mr. Arinc, who criticizes others while he is in opposition. We find it very wrong to cut the money from the Foundation to the Foundation General Directorate to be used to repair the foundation cultural assets with Article 53 of the bill. The Law on Foundations, issued by the AKP in 2008, has been extradited to 292 move-ins, has been decided to pay the price for 15 movers, and the demand for the return of 1,220 is also in the process of evaluation. Government members and speakers who have made statements on all matters would have been saved if the Foundations had worked as hard to restore property to minority foundations as the General Directorate would have done to repair the foundation's foundations and cultural assets. With these thoughts, I look forward to your support and respect for our motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0190par0246	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 58th draft of the current 443 rows of legislation. We propose that the article (a) be removed from the text of the article of 29/6/2012. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0191par0253	He disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0190par0254	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0192par0255	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0190par0256	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0258	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Congressmans, the House is so arbitrary that it has just filed a motion on two articles here, President. One is a motion on the Law on Political Parties No. 2820, and one is a motion on the Law on Agriculture Sales Co-operatives No. 4572. Now, in this bill or this proposal, there's no clause, there's nothing about these two laws, there's no change of any matter, or there's a temporary additive. The 87th amendment of the Civil Code states that unless the amendment is in a law that is being discussed, the amendment motions will not be put into effect. It's clear, isn't it, Canicli?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0194par0261	Right.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0262	So, why did you put it in the process? Why did you do it? Why? Why did you put it there?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0194par0263	I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0264	But isn't this Parliament run according to the Civil Code, friends? What does the vice president of this house represent? So, when it comes into your account, you see it, you don't see it when you don't want it. There's no such parliamentary administration, there's no joy in it. In that way...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0194par0265	So many deputies...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0266	Sir, they can all ask if they want to. Are we going to sell Turkey because they all want to? I mean, now, if all of this Assembly wants it, we'll sell Turkey, right? Is that a thing to say? Is that an app? Clearly, you've filed two motions against Article 87, and you've made them a matter of law. Then how will you ensure the credibility of this House? How is this House going to work honestly? Which president, which Vice President will this House trust? This is indeed an unforgivable mistake. I don't think a person who suspends so many Civil Codes should sit on this bench. Now, the precious MPs, the trouble is so great, let's talk about which one. For example, I'm on the CIT Commission. We're looking into the accounts of the Turkish Maritime Enterprises last week. There are 13 ports here that have been given to some companies by sharing incomes; they've been given to 97, so far... friends, there's a general manager there. I asked, how long have you been a general manager? The guy never collected, he timed it out. I'm just saying, what are you sitting here for, then? I mean, this government's got $700,800,000 to pay. There was also an incident in the port of Giresun, where the highways have nationalized a building in the port of Giresun. He received a trillion and 600 billion dollars in publicisation from this. Now this is a share of income. So, when the administration made a contract with this, they said: " 75 percent of your income is yours and 25 percent is mine."
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0195par0270	He's right.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0271	But other than the business, it's 2%.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0195par0272	There's been a lawsuit.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0273	They brought it in, and they gave it to Cakiroglu, who owed about 700,000 dollars. Is that a thing? We say, brother, this is state property. It was given to you for 30 years to share income. So, how did you give him this money? Friends, again, last week, we're reviewing Istanbul's accounts for the 2020 Olympic Games on sports. A sports club in İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality -- the Istanbul Olympics -- does not pay $1 trillion 435 billion in debt. Again, Istanbul City serves elsewhere, and according to the law, half of its income is going to be given to him in order to perform these Olympic games services on time, while he can't pay the dues of his services elsewhere -- sir, that's what I consider my service there. Well, now, I mean, there's such a joy that there's no law to listen to, there's no right to anything. So, now, if Turkey's failure to win the 2020 Olympics is due to the failure of Istanbul to deliver the service on time, then its sole responsibility is the mayor of Istanbul. But your mayor has thousands of zoning frauds, thousands of investigation files on him, the Home Secretary won't let us investigate, so there's no investigation. The prosecutors, unfortunately, are coming to the prosecutors' office, and the prosecutors are not opening these investigations out of fear. This law is a Rant law. Again, it is a law that the state's specific resources are to be squandered on its allies. So I'm against that law. My respects.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0196par0280	Thank you. Mr. Young, your statements regarding the Civil Code are correct, but you have taught it wrong.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0193par0282	There is no right, Mr. President, you will serve there. Is there a Law 2820 here? How do you process it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0196par0284	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 58 of Law Bill 443 be changed as follows. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends A) has been published on the date of the release of 2, 8, 14, 22, 23 and 42 articles 29/6/2012, B) Articles 16 and 17 on 1/1/2014, C) Article 19 on 1/5/2013, Six months after the release of the first joke (b) of Article 45, D) On the date of its release of Article 52, dated 27/2/2008, e) in the history of its expiration, It's in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0197par0298	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0196par0299	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0198par0300	We agree.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0196par0301	I'm reading the reason: It has been intended to re-organise the application clause in parallel with the removal of Article 38 of the Bill from the text of the Bill. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 59 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Before voting all of them, is Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara MP, who, according to the Civil Code 86, has asked for a word in favor to show the color of the game? No. Against the law...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0199par0309	In favor of Mr. Kubat...
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0200par0310	All right, let it go, it's not in favor, it's against you now.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0196par0311	It's Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0201par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Now we've discussed another bag of bills. Of course, we were just sitting on the bench, and our friends made a joke, and they said it wouldn't look like that. Rarely, there are motions on certain substances that all groups can agree on. And the motions that we rightly gave and insisted on, sometimes you don't accept them within the power balance. We thank you for the shortcomings we offer and the joint proposals that have been made, but despite our warnings, we continue our reservations about the unchanging substances. I made a promise for him. We're not opposed to the general law as the National Movement Party, but there are some particular clauses in it that I specifically told you about the Central Bank, and I explained its importance to you. We also said that the purpose of the work on the foundation should be cut off in accordance with the law, rather than in the past arrangement, and that it should not be taken from us after that. Therefore, we, the National Movement Party, are always compromiser, constructive, guiding, but it is our duty to warn of what is wrong. So we came back with the right side, with the crooked side, with the wrong side. Hopefully, tomorrow, again, we won't say it's wrong and come to anything new. In terms of the law-making technique, it's a waste of time, and it's also getting in the way of the economic, social work that we need to do. We want to get rid of these vicious conflicts, get rid of political debates, solve real problems, structural problems. That's why I made a promise. Again, I wish him good luck with his shortcomings, and I give him my regards.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit04spe0202par0318	Thank you. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I wish our representative in the UEFA Champions League, Galatasaray Sports Club, success in the first quarter final match against Spanish representative Real Madrid. [[Applause]] VII-KAN'S PLANS AND COMMISSIONS [[Continue]] I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the Law on Public Finance and Compensation of Debt Management and the Law on Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws is an open vote: ▪ The number of votes used: 250 [[x]] Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Ukrainian Council of Ministers with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 293 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 293 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND PRODUCTION OF AIR CONTROL IN THE ACTION OF SURGEONS IN THE UKRA The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Ministers of Ukraine, which was signed in Ankara on December 22, 2011. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Ukrainian Council of Ministers: ▪ Number of votes used: 239 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-03sit05spe0202par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 87th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume our talks with the Court's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked sixth, in accordance with the Institutional Framework of the Initiative for Prevention and Prevention of the Disasters in Southeast Europe. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume talks between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo, where we are left with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on Investments' Reciprocity and Protection. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (April 4th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
