tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Mustafa Ozturk, who asked for a speech due to Energy Savings Week. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to honor the honorable lawmakers of Energy Efficiency Week. I salute you all. Our country's growing economy for ten years has also increased industrial production. With industrial production, increasing prosperity has also increased energy use. Our country has become the country with the highest energy demand in the world. Meeting our country's growing energy needs has been a priority for the AK PARTY governments. All renewable energy sources are assessed through both public and private sectors, such as water, coal, wind, sun, thermal, bioenergy and nuclear energy. And all of our projects are going on. Besides, the private sector's share of energy production has risen to 61 per cent. Here, despite all of this, I'd like to point out two things. First of all, we're still 70 percent dependent on outer energy, despite all this work. Secondly, I would like to point out the importance of supply security based on our growing energy needs. In 2012, we imported $59 billion in energy. The 2013 budget deficit is estimated to be 34 billion. When we subtract the amount that we transfer to energy, it's obvious that we're going to give you a budget surplus. I would like to stress specifically how important energy efficiency and savings are, as well as using all kinds of energy sources to get rid of external addiction and meet the growing demand for energy. We can add efficiency and savings to four main groups. First of all, public transportation. We all know we use most of the oil we import in motor vehicles. In this area, where we have a minimum of 15 percent savings, it's inevitable that we'll be able to move towards public transportation. Therefore, as the EC PARTY, we care about public transportation, especially for public transportation vehicles, fast train projects, subways, trams, metrobus and shipping, and we transfer resources. We can all contribute to this savings by changing our habits in our personal automobiles. The second area is the insulation area in the buildings. We use a very important part of the natural gas that makes up most of our imported pen and is 95% dependent on the outside for heating housing. As a result of the heat insulation of the dwellings, we can save 30%. I'd like to point out the importance of getting the laws and regulations enforced. In this regard, everyone, especially the professional rooms, the building owners, is getting very serious work done. Our third forehead is illumination: The house, the workplace, the mall, the street and parks we use for light bulbs are savings, and if we replace them with LED technology bulbs, especially with measurements that we can save 40 per cent in LED. If we replace 100 watts of light bulbs in each house with 20 watts, we're doubling the electricity produced by the Keban Dam, which I'd like to bring to your attention. Our fourth area, industry and homes. I'd like to say that we're going to save a lot of money when the machines we use and the white stuff we use at home -- like the fridge, the washing machine, the dishwasher -- are replaced by high-saving equipment. This is that: After 14-15 million old refrigerators are replaced by a class-A refrigerator, a Keban Dam is again replaced by the energy systems called the two plus-power systems, and 1 Ataturk Dam is again converted to higher energy efficiency devices, and we have saved as much energy as the 2 Keban Dam. In total, in this sense, we've been identified as using 12 Keban Dam energy in terms of efficiency and savings, unconscious and inefficient, and I'd like to bring that to your attention. So with all the savings we can do, we can contribute to the country's economy between $7.5 and $10 billion a year. Another thing is that with this energy efficiency that we're going to do, the gases that are released into the atmosphere will be prevented, and we'll be making a huge contribution to environmental cleanup. I'd like to bring this to the attention of the environmental associations. Every year, he cares about the efficiency of energy efficiency, creating awareness, information and promotion of new projects, and I want to express my faith that all our citizens will be sensitive and will contribute to the preparation of our country for future future futures. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Alim Izlu, who asked for a comment on the sale of Seyitömer Termik Operator. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you and all of our citizens, including my dear fellow citizens who follow us. I'd like to talk to you today about a sale called specialization of AKP governments, which is a typical example of how public investments were sold one by one during the previous republic's governments, and would be a black mark on the privatisation date. This is the sale of Seyitömer Termik Operator, which was announced on November 6, 2012, with a tender announcement by Kangal Termik Operator in the Official Gazette No. 28459. The sale, which was not on the government's agenda until six months ago, has been made in the last six months, as the government's final goal to the province of Kütahya by the end of 2012, when the process of contracting the Constitution and illegal regulations has been completed. Because the Seyitömer thermal plant tender, not only for the sale of a power-producing plant with all its assets for nearly 40 years, but also for the first time in 50 years, has made significant contributions to our country and our province's economy and employment, which will be the first example of the Seyitömer Lineyit Company, which is known as the SLLİLyit Company, which will be the first to start with the age of coal fields until 2054. The sale is the sale of a four-unit power plant, which produces about 4 billion kilowatts of electricity each year with nearly 600 megawatts of power, and 6 million tons of coal each year to this plant, with nearly 7 million tons of linite coal produced and a total reserve close to 174 million tons of coal, which has enough potential to run the plant for about 30 years. In these two businesses, we still have 3,000 people working every day to bring bread home. When the two companies are evaluated together, the annual revenues of these two businesses are due to the total of 2 billion Turkish liras per year, 1.2 billion TL, and 800m TL. And, dear lawmakers, do you know how many offers were offered to these two businesses together in this sale? Let me explain right away, that's $2 billion, 248 million, that's about 4 billion Turkish dollars. In other words, I'm talking about a sale that's being sold for almost two years on the income of businesses. Oh, my God, you guys! I'm talking about an example of how the AKP government, which hasn't built a megawatt energy plant in ten years, pursued a facility built during previous governments. It is also a matter of debate that the AKP government, which sought to sell all of what it had done before, has used lawmakers and governors of our province with this sale. I'm transferring lawmakers and ruling party executives to their own consciences and to Allah, who have been active here and have sped up the sale by staying silent. And I'd like to share with you how this process was brought to the House for a brief review. The Finance Minister's response to a proposal of 15/11/2000 is exactly the same; while privatisation of electricity production facilities is being conducted, we have no decision on privatisation of coal-supply enterprises. Again, the Minister of Energy wrote on 29 May 2012 that Seyitömer Liniyet Enterprises does not have the scope of privatisation. So, what happened? By the way, you know very well, with a law in July, this process is about to be completed. Dear lawmakers, this process must be stopped immediately, and I invite all my Kütahian citizens, especially unions and NGOs, to fight against this process that is contrary to the Constitution. I invite you, not in Kandil, but in the mount Seyitömer, to support the workers who struggle for bread; and I salute you all. This process must be stopped. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Light. In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Resources Taner Yildiz. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by respectfully greeting your delegation. First of all, I'd like for our Energy Savings Week to lead the work of becoming a culture throughout our entire country. And our congressman mentioned that, in fact, this has to be evaluated from seven to seventy, in our entire structure, because there's no area, no area, no people, no citizens. We have a lot of work to do about energy savings, and we have concrete results-oriented jobs that all of the operations that are being done about it, and by 2023 -- the calendar that we're taking out right now -- we're going to have a 15-bsorption, year-on-year capacity, that's an important capacity. And our deputy told us that there's a structure that we can save from our homes until we get from transportation to light, until we get to industry, from agriculture to different sectors. I'd like to bring up a few issues regarding privatisation of Seyitömer. Our deputy has given us some information, but I have to say, it's extremely populism. Certainly, rather than the profit of a business, it has not been done in business history to determine the value of that company, that institution, such a facility, rather than the value of its savings, rather than the value of its savings. You can't just talk about the income of a pen that you don't talk about. I'll give you dozens of examples. His income is too...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0006par0049	They're all profitable organizations, Minister.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0007par0050	Profits are not the same thing, especially if one of our teachers knows very well. There are businesses whose income is 100 liras, it costs 120 liras. You can't talk about it because there's 100 lira worth of income there.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0006par0051	They both make a profit, and you know the profits very well.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0007par0052	Now, my friends, I have listened to you without interrupting, and I invite you to the same move, Congressman. I listened to you with respect. Now, friends, even though you're talking about the wrong things, you can speak freely, and I'm going to talk about the right things, but I'm being interrupted. That's not gonna happen. So I'd like to brief you on what is the profitability of the Seyitömer issue, what is its investment, what is its history about it. Dear friends, the 30th of May 2003 and the 2003/34 decision included Seyitömer Termic Plant... the last minute, the last minute, the end of 2012, I'm making a date: the Privatisation High Council, which includes Seyitömer, and 16 hydraulic plants. Then, under the Law on Privatisation Applications 4046, under a set of laws and regulations, they are being revalued in the framework of a series of laws and regulations, which are being held -- not a process that starts right now -- along with the Power Market Act 4628, the Law on Electric Marketing and the Law on Change in Some Laws, and the Privatisation Board, as well as the Law on Privatisation, which is dated 30/10/2012, as well as the Law on Privatisation. As you know, the President of the Privatisation Administration is an institution within the Ministry of Finance, but with the fact that there is an energy sector, I feel I need to say a few words about it. Now, dear friends, we need to know that a plant that was 20 years ago is now 30 years old, and ten years later, it's 40 years old. We prefer not to invest as much as possible in public power generation plants as possible, but as much as possible, we prefer to do that with the private sector. Aren't there exceptions to that? There will be exceptions, but we wish that the main moderator, whether the nuclear power plants, or the thermal power plants, would be in the hands of the private sector. This plant has its positives for an investor, it has its negatives, so it has its positives and its negatives. For example, the plant's first investment cost is a positive value, but the cost of the plant's rehabilitation is a negative value. You can't just multiply and divide the revenues of these plants by their costs, and you can't bid on a plant like this, there are conditions. The plant's chimney gas treatment plant is also a negative cost for investors. No other positives? I do. The first investment cost of the minefield is positive for an investor because there are such investments in the minefield and SLIH. Is there a positive case of operating costs in the minefield? Yes, there is, because there's a business there. The lignite reserve in the minefield, as our Congressman said, does it exist? Yes, he does, and he's going to use that reserve anyway. Dear friends, Turkey's growth rate has been moving faster than the economy's growth rate so far in the energy sector. I mean, we still have a lot of work to do. Now, when we talk about these investments, some friends say, well, do you have a problem with supply security today? Then what does it mean? Seeing the decision you've made today come true five or six years from now, it's already forcing you to make those decisions. Don't get carried away. We need to make these investments, we need to make those decisions, in order to cover the current supply security, the possible growth figures of Turkey, about 2016, about 2017. Dear friends, when we look at the OECD countries over the past decade, Turkey is the largest growth rate in the energy sector, and we must be able to make investments that will cover this growth. Dear friends, right now, from zero to zero construction costs, there are 16 firms here, 17 firms, who have an idea of transparency, with a sense of transparency. Of course it could be our friends who want to bid higher, who could be willing to pay $4 billion. They come in, they bid, and then we see the end of the contract together, and we're okay with it. So, after the tender for these things, I wonder if it was worth $10 or $100? We, as a public opinion, see tenders -- I don't mean -- some numbers go up, some numbers go down, but the offer you're getting is limited to that contract. Dear friends, we often say that we have no problems with our fellow workers and that it is not right to populism through our fellow workers; the Privatisation Administration has a policy that is observed in this sense. If we're going to fight this, especially now -- I'm not going to say that word -- I mean, a comparison that you're talking about -- I'd like to say that it definitely means that we're taking this out of bounds. There's no such thing as a struggle, that's not true. Our government's agenda is not only privatisation of Seyitömer Termic Plants, friends, but it is now the privatisation of the thermal plant in Kangal, where we will bring it to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where we will bring it to your approval. I would especially like to point out once again that all of our citizens, regardless of the ruling-Muslim-related week of Energy Savings, will surely be sensitive to the issue of every layer of society, and that this is our largest fuel supply as a 6th-fuel fuel, and that Turkey has the capacity to save our country. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0009par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0010par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0008par0070	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0009par0071	Mr. President has stated that I've taken a populist approach, distorted information. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a stand.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. President, can I have the floor first? Because he also teased about the Kütahya MPs.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0008par0073	Just a minute, sir. Mr. Light has responded to him as the speaker -- Mr. Secretary -- he says his own words are distorted. I'll give him my word, but what do you want to promise?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0010par0075	In addition, Mr. Light has just said that lawmakers of the Kütahya have been used in his speech. And for that reason, sir, I'd like a say in the matter, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0008par0076	First I promise Mr. Light, then I promise you. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know very well that both businesses are profitable. Although I've written to you many times, I'd like to share with you the profits of the past history business. For example, its profit in 2008 is around 74 million TL. These two businesses are a profitable business. Now, you will add the profitable business to the law with a proposal that the Privatisation Administration can privatise its links with a motion that you pass on to the Constitution and against the law, and then you will hand over Seyiterömer Lineit Processing to the EUAŞ, immediately after which you will go to the privatisation ad. You can't possibly tell me that. This is against the Constitution. So even though every two percent of the business here has profited together... I will, of course, talk about income figures. The annual income of these two businesses is $2 billion. The money you're selling is two years old. You need to explain why you have privatized the profitable business to start with in Kütahya. What about my statement used by lawmakers? Yes, Mr. Congressman, you know very well that you went, in Kütahya, you said that workers who work here would not be victimized and that the Ministry of Energy would be transferred to other facilities. Mr. Secretary will make a promise here: we will transfer 3,000 people to other businesses, we will not play with any of their bread. If you say so, I take it back. You have statements. You said there was privatisation of CHP's and DP's election statements. That's right, the words of the National Movement Party about privatisation are not words that mean that businesses that profit will be pulled in a row, but are about to start with those who have already lost the public supply method. So I leave it to the public conscience. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0012par0085	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Kinay.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, Mr. Alim Ik, in a speech he just made, have made very inappropriate, unresponsive statements that lawmakers in Kütahya have been used in the privatisation process of Seyitömer Termic Plant, which I condemn first. On the other hand, the National Movement Party, as they say, can find their own support for privatisation -- look at party programmes -- in CHP, in their own party programs, to continue this privatisation process if they could be the government. I have made a solemn promise to condemn this unfortunate statement. On the other hand, they did another warped assessment here. By establishing the total income of the Syedem Termic Plant, which is the sale value of the patient, I think they've also made a very wrong assessment. With the profit of a business, it's the only way to evaluate it. When you look at their profits, the sale of $2 billion, 248 million by privatisation is equivalent to a total profit of 20 years. Of course, the Privatisation Administration is implementing privatisation within pre-empty laws and the Constitutional framework. In this direction, whatever was done that day is being conducted today, as is today, with the same laws as the privatisation process. A total of 16 companies have entered the assessment, and they have competed with each other in extraordinary serious numbers, after all, a company has given the highest value. The privatisation isn't complete yet, this process is ongoing. In our opinion, there will be no harm done to the workers, and we're watching this very closely. All lawmakers, especially our Minister, are doing their best in the process. And no worker will be a victim, my dear friends. I hereby pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0014par0093	Thank you, Mr. Kinay.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. President, he has stated that I've made unsubstantiated statements, and I'd like to show you his credentials.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0014par0096	Okay, it's on the record, sir. Thank you. The third out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, who asked for a statement on the sale of the Bosphorus Bridge and highways. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0016par0104	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I'm going to give you my opinion on privatisations and the rental of bridges and highways in Turkey. I'm going to draw a picture of how the country is being sold out, based on AKP's expression that has not been done in years. While our grandfathers guard their lives so as not to give a square inch of land to strangers, the AKP sells everything that has been done in 80 years, including land. With a number of counting games, "The per capita income has tripled." In his statement, the AKP is enriching someone with privatisation policies and billing citizens, raising a gap between rich and poor. TELEKOM was one of the most striking of these privatisations. The majority stake of TELEKOM, which makes $2.5 billion a year, has been sold for $6.5 billion, or, in other words, sequestered. He's selling our country's national assets to newspapers with anonymous ads, land, land and buildings. Moreover, the transfer agreement will end in 2026, and under the contract, TELEKOM will have to hand over any entity belonging to the institution to the Turkish state at this time. However, when that day comes, the inside of the TELEKOM will be emptied. What reason is it that the world's leading states are so important to national security that they can't even think about selling communication networks that are so important that we're constantly renting our profitable networks to foreigners? See, 66% of TIPRAS, which covers 12 per cent of the country's tax revenue and has a turnover of 4.5 billion dollars in 2004, sold to the Hard-Efremov Group for $1.3 billion, followed by 15 per cent in 2005 by investment funds operating on behalf of Israeli businessman Sami Offer. Both sales were cancelled by the legal initiatives of PETROL-İSK. In 2006, 51 per cent of the company's shares were sold to around $4 billion, about three times the canceled sale. Let's get back to last June. The AKP, who considers itself above the law, has ruled that the decisions made by the 5 privatisations carried out repeatedly by the Council of Ministers will not be implemented. Thus, the 15 per cent stake of TUPRASH, which was cancelled by a judicial decree, has been sold to the top businessman of Israel, whom they have never loved. There are lawsuits filed by both my party and the vocational chambers regarding these decisions, which have been made in a completely contrary to Articles 2, 125 and 138 of the Constitution. The IDO is the AKP's "privatize everything." Logically, it was dispossessed as a garbage-free grape. The quality of the ministry should be increased, but the monopoly has been created, and the victims have reached extreme stages. No privatisation in the AKP's administration has ever helped the citizens. Dear lawmakers, after the looting of public-owned businesses with the AKP government, it is now time for highways where we are now 90 per cent dependent. To save the day, bridges and highways, with three and a half years' income averaged $2-2.5 billion, were rented for $5.7 billion. The centre painting was described by exemplary figures by the YOL-HIS and Construction Engineers' Room, the organised power of the Highways. The two-year spending on highways was $5.5 billion, while the 25-year lease was $5.7 billion. You don't need to run a country to do this simple math. In the last decade, the number of cars crossing bridges and highways has increased by 76 per cent and revenues by 250 per cent. In short, a high-profit public enterprise has been sold out and given to capital groups. Among other things, the result of 16,000 highway workers. Remember, more than 35,000 people have been unemployed and complaints have increased as a result of the decline in service quality. Experient staff who have done this for years will be disabled and entrusted to the subcontractor system. On highways, subcontractors mean savings on human life. I still find it hard to understand the logic in maintaining the same insistence when I lived in Kozlu two days ago the latest disaster of subcontractorization. Another deception is that all of this is being done under the name of privatisation. The leases and concessions the Ottomans made to match their budget have made him a sick man in Europe. The same thing is happening again today. I'm asking the following questions for the public benefit of the income from bridges and highways, not just a few supporting bosses. Why did the AKP foreclose on profitable institutions? Have you determined what kind of commercial enterprises will be held in the rental areas? What about the job security of experienced highway workers? How will the price policy of bridges and highways be set in order for the public not to be harmed? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0017par0121	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Congressmans, I'm going to promise each of the MPs a minute in the system as much as our time allows. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0018par0126	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to report to Parliament the cries of 150 students in Arguvan district of Malatya. 150 students who have been studying to transport at the Central Republican Elementary School in the District of Arguvan of Malatya have been eating their meals near the school's heating furnace and charcoal for over two years. For two years, students have been calling the authorities, saying, "We don't want to eat coal between bread and water. " The PTA is ready to give away everything they have to make the school a mess hall. However, the remaining funds must be paid from the State Special Administration or the Ministry of National Education. From here, I speak to the Minister of National Education: In 2013, students are forced to eat near the coal shed at an elementary school. The children are facing illness. I'm waiting for your support to resolve this problem, I'm waiting for the support of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0019par0131	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0020par0134	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday, after a police raid in Hakkari, a fellowman from Adana Saimbeyli was killed by traitors, a brother of ours. I offer my condolences to his family, and therefore to our nation, that the deceased may dwell in heaven. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0021par0137	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0022par0140	Mr. President, passengers from Giresun to Tripoli Airport are forced to walk about a mile with their luggage as a result of the absence of the vehicles of a TÜRSAB and D2 licensed company from the airport entrance. That's why I'm hearing complaints from the passengers who hijacked your plane. It is unacceptable for law enforcement officers serving at the airport to be forced to use as law enforcement by another firm, to increase their profits from passenger transport, and to eliminate rival companies. In this regard, I would like to share the need for those in authority to act in a sense of duty and responsibility. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0023par0143	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0024par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Justice Department, there are already major problems, as the UYAP system does not have adequate infrastructure, as the executive offices are now fully implementing file payments through the banks' channel. In order to be paid through the executive offices channel with Law 6352, the authorities must leave bank account information in the executive offices within six months of the law. However, the laws and the follow-up prior to the date of execution have been sealed before the change. Despite this arrangement, the Ministry of Justice, in its January 4, 2013 generalization, is in violation of the law, preventing executive agencies from paying right now, and executive agencies are unable to do business between law and generality. For this situation to be corrected, the initiative must be made immediately and the way the executive agencies can pay must be opened. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0025par0149	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0026par0152	Thank you, Mayor. Yesterday there was a strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea, an earthquake centre 50km off the coast of Turkey. The earthquake was felt in a wide range. The size of the earthquake was 5.8 according to European centres, 5.7 according to the United States centre, 6.2 on Turkey, 6.2 on AFAD. The AFAD and the Kandilite shared the value of greatness and misled the people in their greatness. In such earthquakes, the global scale is as seismic momentum as given by Europe and the United States. Why can't AFAD and Kandilli give agencies global size? Our earthquake station infrastructure is capable of computing on this scale. Why doesn't AFAD do the math on this scale? Is there a management problem or a technical problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0027par0155	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0028par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to tell you about the Cam Topkapi workers who entered their New Year's factory with their families and children. The Anadolu Bottle Cam Company, one of the richest in Turkey and one of the Business Bank's partnerships, opens more factories in Eskişehir to produce and win, but each sees a great deal of rights to workers who have worked 15 or 20 years and have given new factories to the business. He wants them to submit to the new contract and the price of misery. The workers have been resisting this insatiable greed for more than ten days. In order for 200 workers to go with their rights to various factories of the business, the KRISTAL-HIS Union is conducting talks with the employer, and we would like to call on the Business Bank and Bottle Cam employers to meet the demands of workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0029par0162	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0030par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'd appreciate it if you'd stop talking for a minute and listen here. I mean, there's only one minister representing the government who's in Parliament right now, and the Minister seems to be having a chat. Mr. Secretary, I have your attention again. Mr. Secretary doesn't hear you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0031par0168	You tell me, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0030par0169	Yes, Mr. Secretary, there are a number of refugees who have come to our country from the conflict in Afghanistan. There are about 800-900 refugees living in closed milk industry housings in Kars. With the help of citizens in a windowless, windowless, doorless area. Why don't you show your interest in those who seek refuge in our country from Syria to Afghan refugees in Kars? Do you know about this? A second point is about the Minister of Transport. Yesterday we boarded a plane from Istanbul to Ankara for exactly three hours...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0031par0172	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0032par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Under the Public Association of Hospitals Act, the general secretary is the Union's top decision and executive body, but there are complaints that the general secretaries in some cities are abusing their duties. So I've heard that some of them have removed the right to work after voluntary work in health care institutions and institutions with full-time legislation without any grounds. This practice has left all health workers without an additional income and has left the citizen a victim. In the same way, the 40-hour work period set by the Full - Day Law is also stated by the secretary general to be increased by eight hours a day, so 45 hours a week. Isn't it against the law to take the rights given by law without change and without justification? I'm asking the government if you've had any complaints about such arbitrary practices. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0033par0180	Thank you, Counting Reminder. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0034par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, tomorrow is the Day of Journalists working on January 10. Yesterday was the 17th anniversary of the murder of Metin Skype. Metin Gökpe was murdered in January, when Uğur Mumcu was also killed, and in the seventeenth year, journalists, friends of the free press tradition, witnesses of the incident met at Metin. They said they would claim the free journalism tradition, the legacy he created. In 2013, unfortunately, the tradition of the Mummites, represented by the Skypes, faces heavy pressures. Currently, more than 70 journalists are being defamed in prisons. During the AKP period, journalists may not be killed, but the Balbays remain in the cells in the fourth year of the Tuncay Özkan detentions. In the new year, when Metin speaks with respect to Skype, Uður Mumcu, as part of the free press tradition, we call all arrested journalists freedom.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0035par0187	Thank you, Mr. Aygun. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0036par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. The week we are in is Energy Week. Our sphere and the solar system are not infinite. A known reality is the negative impact of nuclear power plants, HESEs, and fossil fuels on our planet and on our life. The hees, rising like mushrooms all over the country, destroy our flora, our fauna, our historical and cultural values. The cure, he says, is not in HES, not in nuclear power plants, but in providing renewable energy resources to the service of humanity.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0037par0193	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0038par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. On Sunday (January 6th), AKP Deputy Prime Minister and Government spokesman Bkent Arinc, who met with members of the press in the province of Bursa on Sunday (January 6th), presented information on the project of Bursa, stating that the farmland, which is 290,000 hectares in Burma, will soon be met with water, watered by 35,690 hectares in the last two years. So far, I'm asking for information on the project, including AKP power, on which 35,690 hectares have been watered by projects in the last two years, as well as on the grounds of the project. In my opinion, the Minister is being misinformed. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0039par0199	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Iron, I don't think so. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0040par0203	Mr. President, thank you. At the end of the week, I made a promise on the news of the police. This article is completely wrong, and its content and title have been served with biased, ulterior motives. The goal is to discredit the political institution and the politician in public opinion. Here's the thing: when we hit the street, our police officer didn't want to let us in. And my fellow advisor said, "We have a minister." After that, our police officer said, "You can't go back in anyway." I came down on this, sir... and a friend of ours came up behind me. I said, "Here you go." I'm the manager of our police friends. Can we recognize you? Is there a problem? So I said, "I'm a scholarship MP." There's no problem. I'm going to go to the program. He said this, and I'll point out, we don't have to get to know you. I said to him, because he's a manager, because he's a manager, you have to know him a year and a half later. So it's just an answer to a question I'm not supposed to answer. So, I know our police friends are under pressure, hard and selfless. But I'm telling you, I don't need recognition, but some media organs that have lost their credibility and their neutrality, who have lost their readers, need ratings, so they need sensations. I'm presenting it to the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0041par0210	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0042par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, for the ruling party's big-city hospitals project, the public-regional arrangement for public-private partnership, which is known as a subsidiary, was cancelled by the Court of State as the principle of dissolution of forces. Unfortunately, the Constitution was sent to parliament to make a legal arrangement that would inadvertently nullify the grounds for this cancellation, which was sent to the Plan and Budget Commission. However, such an arrangement, which concerns the healthcare area and will severely waste the country's resources for forty-nine years, should be discussed at the Health Commission, which is an expert in health care and is a member of each party. However, at a time when we have not held any meetings in almost three months, our commission's agenda is extremely open, each of us is empty, and even the Parliament has not discussed it on the basis of the intensity of the agenda, and has submitted a report to the Plan and Budget Commission. I present to you the compliments of the High Council.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0043par0217	Thank you, Mr. Special. Your Honor, I've given you a deadline. You've brought it up before.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0044par0219	It's important right now.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0043par0220	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0044par0222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's very important. A fellow journalist called from Ankara to İstanbul on the bus. The Bolu Tunnel is now closed, the old road blocked, thousands of passengers trapped. He says: "Let the Minister of Transport take an interest in standing up at the ambassadors' meeting." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit01spe0045par0225	Thank you, Mr. Original. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion for a retraction of the law proposal, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 10:10.2012 dates and (2/905) We would like to withdraw the Law Proposal on the Building of the District under the Name of the Red Tribe of the Marine Province. We'll pay our respects. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mehmet Şandir The offer made by the Internal Affairs Commission has been returned. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Organised Industrial Areas (OSB) contribute greatly to the development of our industry. In recent years, the growing demands of investors and regional development have increased the importance of OSBs. Manisa was elected the most reliable investment city in previous years, with ease for domestic and foreign investors. Manisa also contributes substantially to the country and the region's economy. With a 2% stake in the informal domestic product, it's 7th in economic size in 81 districts. Manisa, who is next in line, has created a quadrillion lira plus value in the agricultural sector, which is 1 in Turkey. In our next province, agricultural industry must also be considered essential. Manisa, a local and foreign investor, has become a center of attraction, which has almost all of the criteria for investing. Despite the benefits provided to investors such as environmental pollution, quality manpower, substructure, cheap land, transportation and communication, energy and customs, however, Manisa and its counties do not get their share of the investment cake. Because the governance weaknesses of organised industrial regions and political abuses of municipalities have hit the industry with a huge blow to the industry that they are seen only as a rant tool, driven out of the real goals of the OSBs, investments, production, employment, development. Therefore, the industry has not achieved the desired level of development. Parts assigned to the OSBs are idle, not invested. The identification of investors and investors in the OSBs, co-operation with relevant institutions and institutions, completion of OSB investments in Manisa central and districts as soon as possible, developing investment opportunities, developing necessary promotions, establishing proposals for solutions to increase employment, 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the TBMM Administration. We offer and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the terms of the pearl clauses. [[Manisa]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 7) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 8) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Tekirdağ]] 24) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 25) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 26) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Manisa, 95% of the production of seed-free raisins is made. The vines are produced in the 655,000-grain vineyard, and about 60,000 families earn their living that way. In our country, it is the province of Manisa, which has the most positive value in agricultural production, and the agricultural sector has an important place in employment. So agriculture is the basis of the Manisa economy. On average, there are 250,000 tonnes per year. The majority of the produced sultanate is exported either age or dry. Every year, however, problems with exports have been repeated this year. The state's lack of control and the fact that some opportunistic exporters exported an immature, immature, tasteless, sour-colored green grape has caused dissatisfaction in the outside market and has caused prices to drop. We are the world's largest seedless raisin maker, making this product strategically important. But unfortunately, since we can't take this opportunity under international market conditions, our producer doesn't get the income he deserves. The most important problems are the unplanned increase in bond fields, the increase in input costs, and the decline in this increase in nuclear-free raisin prices, the increase in export prices, the fact that Tarish does not reveal the price of grapes at the beginning of the season, and therefore the trader determines the price. This includes the lack of domestic consumption, the export of grapes smuggled in from Iran as Turkish grapes, as well as the lack of the producer's ability to hold the grapes because of the stockpile problem. Prices have been lowered, rumored to be high recollateries and supply surplus prior to the harvest by some parts during the period of supply. In order to market, market, store, store, and identify problems in exports, plan production, and develop producers' revenues and prosperity levels, support their organisation, determine proposals for a solution to increase consumption and exports, we propose and propose that the Constitution be opened and investigate a Parliamentary investigation according to Articles 104 and 105. [[Manisa]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 3) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Malatya]] [[Hatay]] 6) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] 7) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] 23) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 24) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] 27) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Olives and olive oil are an important part of our country's plant production and agricultural industry. Because it is a regional product, it is particularly the basis for Mediterranean trade. It is considered to be the beginning of olive farming with the first humans, and it is considered "the first of all trees." Throughout history, olives represent peace, friendship, and blessing. The olive tree, a symbol of Mediterranean civilization, has been an important figure in all civilizations established throughout history. It is still used as a symbol of social and international relations. Today, especially the Marmara, the Aegean, and the Mediterranean Territories are among the world's largest names for olive farming. Since planned agricultural policies are not created, olive producers face challenges at every stage of production, especially production. Olive production is usually made in small areas with few trees. That's why the manufacturer can't make a living. So far, support has not contributed to increasing production and quality. Millions of newly planted trees have been supported throughout the country, but the support of production has failed because it has not increased in the same way. Of all our exports, the most share belongs to agricultural products. But instead of increasing exports on this issue, imports of agricultural products are increasing every year, but exports are in place. For the world and for our country, olives, which are both a very valuable food and a very rich economic potential, must be given its value. Healthy quality product production must be supported by measures to increase the chances of competition in the domestic and external market. Given the proper assessment of the olives grown according to regional features, the producer's efforts and sweat should be appreciated without loss at the end of the necessary procedures. Olivery must be supported, and producers' problems must be resolved. The growth of the world's population, the change of needs, the developing and changing world conditions have put agricultural products in a strategic position. Therefore, the need for strategic consideration of solutions to the problems of olive and olive oil production arises. We propose and propose the opening of a Parliamental inquiry under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine issues in the production of olives and olive oil, to increase consumption, to develop export opportunities, to provide solution proposals for solutions. [[Manisa]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 3) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[Ankara]] 6) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 20) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 21) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Tekirdağ]] 26) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 27) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 28) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0045par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter Proposal on the Amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Civil Charter. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Government, where we are left with the Court of Justice and Foreign Affairs Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Military Education Business Association Covenant. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Justice Commission Report and the Law Charter, which is ranked in the fourth place in the fourth place, for the length of Judiciary and part-execution of Court Decisions to be paid for or not to be carried out. The commission and the government are in place. Article 7 of the bill was adopted in the 31st Union of 29/11/2012. Now, I'm going to read the 8th article: Statement of the decision to the relevant legal or administrative authority A sample of the Commission's final decisions as a result of the application to the Commission is sent to the legal or administrative authority. (2) If the application has not yet been concluded, the procedure is immediately concluded by the relevant legal or administrative authority. On the matter, İzmir MP Birgül Ayman Güler on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0046par0029	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 8th Amendment of the Court's Charter on the length of Judiciary Number 342, and to whether or not the Court's provisions should be passed or not be paid for compensation due to whether or not they should be carried out. This arrangement, which has previously been held as of the first seven articles, will now be under law from Article 8 to Article 11 of the article 11, shall be held today as part of appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. According to the basis of the bill, there are about 16,000 applications to the European Court of Human Rights. Of these, 2,500 are more than reasonable, or the court has decided, but the court's decision has not been implemented or applied late. The reason for the bill states that by the end of this year, it can find 3,500....... a rough calculation, it seems that our country is considered a country that is not doing its job well by 20 per cent in terms of lawsuits in front of the European Court of Human Rights. As this bill was discussed, we asked the Minister of Justice: "What is the distribution of these 3,500 applications on the subject? Can you categorize property rights as a life violation? The Minister's response to us was: "We don't know what areas these delays in the 3,500 cases are related to, we as a Republic of Turkey have no knowledge of this. " Since the government has no knowledge of this, there is no way for the High Assembly to reason on this matter, is there any way? The reason this bill is being drafted is that the European Court of Human Rights must act in order to ease its workload in Turkey's wake. There's talk of a pilot case. When you examine this pilot case, it appears that the case is dated 1972, and if it is based on the date of 1987 in Turkey and Europe, it is a matter of 40 or 25 years' delay. The case is a cadastro case; the case is a property case. The commission now established will, according to the principles of the European Court of Human Rights, use this case as a precedent, and will decide those 3,500 cases that we do not know about, by setting principles in accordance with this precedent. This continues to be an important question mark for us. Once again, I ask the Minister, how are these cases related to the lengthy trial period and the absence of a court order, or the late implementation, disintegrated on the subject? How many of these are immovable cases, how many are property cases? And in these property cases, are various minority foundations, Turkey's property problems within the Islands, or those related to the KKTC? The bill we have on these cases is to set up a commission. The commission will consist of four Justice Ministry judges, prosecutors and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, even though its members are judges and prosecutors, the commission is not an element of a judicial body, it is an administrative structure, and it appears that as of Article 8, an administrative commission has been placed above the judicial body and has been placed in the position to order the judicial body. My clerk friend read the 8th article, but for once, I'd like to bring it to your attention. According to this article, if the procedure has not yet been concluded, it is immediately concluded by the relevant judicial or administrative authority -- the court -- that is -- that is, when the commission decides on compensation -- that is, if the court has not concluded that case, then the order of the court has been altered by the management's request. The way this works is not right. If the burden of the European Court of Human Rights is intended to be lightened, then perhaps the right way is not to set up a mechanism that gives orders to the court, but to organize a court committee within the judicial system, which may be the only priority, and perhaps its only duty, and to look for ways to resolve this issue within the judicial system's hierarchy, consisting of the Court, the district court, local administrative courts. In fact, the government, who actually drafted the bill, says such things that the judicial system is in too bad a position to deal with such dressings. As a matter of fact, we don't like him. However, the European Union Progress Report also uses very important words as of 2012. It is said that Turkey has failed to address the fundamental shortcomings of the judiciary, justice, criminal system. The questions of Turkey's judiciary, justice, criminal system are structural and systematic. The European Union Progress Report says there is no legal law in Turkey, so prosecutors and court committees are guided by the police. The same report has failed to access the prosecutor's files, so the defence has found that the right to defend is being violated fundamentally, that the public conscience has been injured due to the lack of grounds in the ongoing verdicts of arrest and imprisonment, which complains that there is no objection mechanism before the trial, which states that the nature of indictments and indictments is problematic in terms of defence and fair trial. It is said to be one of the most fundamental attributes to delay trial. Now, we're predicting to correct and eliminate the late trials, provided he's applied to the European Court of Human Rights, with an administrative commission. This dressing isn't enough for this patient. We can't fix the wrongs of the judicial system. It's very difficult to tell the European Court of Human Rights that we can also help. I believe with all my heart that due to the structural and systematic problems of the judicial system, I would like to complete my words by saying hello to those who are unjustly imprisoned. I invite the Grand Assembly here to think not only of political, administrative values, but of fundamental human values. Professor Dr. Fatih Hilmioğlu, I demand that the Grand Assembly act in order for the immediate release of Hilmioğlu. I demand freedom, fair trial and justice for all our fellow prisoners. My respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0047par0043	Thank you, Mr. Guler. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora... Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0048par0047	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment on Article 8 of the 8th Amendment in the Law Bill for the Long Time of Trials 342, for the Late or Participation of Court Decisions, for which there is no Compensation or Compromisement. I salute you all. Before I begin my words, on January 7th, I wish our workers who died in the explosion of methane gas at the Zonguldak Kozlu mine to God's mercy, the families of our workers and relatives. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the issue of the lengthy trial is no doubt important in all areas of the law, but it is of particular importance in criminal cases. Because a criminal trial is an activity that can limit or remove the rights and freedoms of individuals and serves to uncover material truth, not shape. The right to a fair trial has entered into our legislation through constitutional amendments of 2001. However, it should be noted that the European Convention on Human Rights was first signed and adopted, and the right to a fair trial under Article 90 of the Constitution, and all basic rights and freedoms under the European Convention on Human Rights have already been made part of our internal law. The right to be judged in the field of criminal law at a reasonable time, again, shows itself in the principle of the swiftness of judgment, one of the basic principles of criminal law. Because the principle of the swiftness of the trial is that when a crime is committed in society, it must be made clear as soon as possible so that it can facilitate the collection and evaluation of evidence, so that the defendant may not remain guilty for a long time, and the balance of justice against the victim will be restored. One of the key factors in the lengthy trial is the process of investigating the case. Because ineffective investigation means ineffective civil suit. The fact that the investigation is being carried out effectively and sufficiently means that all the lunatics will be gathered to achieve a really strong suspicion, which will greatly shorten the trial process. On the other hand, the prosecutor, who is unable to raise strong suspicion after an adequate investigation, will not be able to prosecute, the courts will not deal with unnecessary cases, the workload will be reduced, and the result will also shorten the trial process for other cases. However, prosecutors do not play an active role in the investigation process, but they often file a civil suit without gathering evidence. After a long period of trial, it is unacceptable at this point that the individual is taking full legal action in accordance with human rights, even if it is in the interests of individuals. For a long time, the individual lives in fear of how the case will end. That's basically why the concept of the right of judgment to be concluded in a reasonable amount of time exists. The goal is not to prevent lawsuits from being procrastinated, not to cause anxiety, anxiety, or grief to individuals about the outcome of the case, and not to cause significant reductions in the property of individuals due to the long trial. Mr. President, good lawmakers, on the other hand, the extension of the trial period beyond reasonable limits also reduces the level of access to evidence related to the trial, and negatively affects the causality relationship between crime and evidence. Because in the long trial process, the parties can forget the details of the incident, and because of the delay and the process, individuals can even avoid pursuing their cases by falling into despair. The majority of applications brought before the European Court of Human Rights are related to a violation of the right to trial at a reasonable time. If you look at the application, it seems that cases do not end in reasonable time, and the trial is taking too long. As a matter of fact, in many cases against Turkey in the European Court of Human Rights as part of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Court ruled that the right to trial was violated at a reasonable time. The European Convention on Human Rights shall not be made clear on what conditions and conditions the period of the trial shall be considered reasonable, but the European Court of Human Rights shall be filled with charges. The European Court of Human Rights sees the end of cases in a reasonable time among the duties of the state and does not accept the general reasons proposed by the state on this issue. The principle of judicial independence is a benefit of being a legal state, but the lack of full implementation of this principle also comes as a factor in the long-term trial. Because in a law system that is independent and dependent on execution, bureaucracy is important. Speaking of which, as you know, eight of our MPs are currently in prison for a long time due to long imprisonment and trial. In my opinion, this is a situation that undermines the legitimacy of the House. As you know, Turkey has signed the European Convention on Human Rights, and international agreements on this matter have been highlighted as well as above our national law, according to Article 90 of the Constitution. Thus, in the theoretical sense, Turkey is considered to be a secular, democratic social state in the Constitution, but in practice, I think it's important for all of the Parliament and all of our parties to express it. It will meet these long trials, and it will allow Turkey to become an honorable member of the European Union in a real sense, not just a word, but a law state in practice. From this point of view, with the development of a universal legal idea by all parties in Turkey in 2013, I would like to welcome you all back from the House on this occasion, with respect to all of you, to make an arrangement to prevent this kind of persecution of our people and to eliminate these lengthy trials. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0049par0059	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0050par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation on behalf of myself and my group. We're discussing a law from last year. Therefore, I think it's helpful to remind you of the reason for the law. The law is a bill, a bill the government considers necessary, a bill of importance. The name of the law is a law that shall be paid in compensation by the length of the trial period, for the late or partial execution or execution of court decisions. So there's a law set up by the government to meet a need, a necessity. Dear lawmakers, the reason for this law brought by the government is also a very honest, genuine issue, which is said to be: despite the swift work of judicial reform in recent years -- I mean, by building a defence, we're trying to establish judicial reform, but despite the fact that we're trying to build fast -- the period of trial is sometimes extended and out of reasonable time. Dear friends, we must remind our nation or remember together. The Justice and Development Party has completed its tenth year, and sometimes there are no different reasons why it can't be a valid excuse. The Justice and Development Party, which is ruling in its own line of work, has no right to stand up ten years later and make excuses by hiding behind a few innocent words if it is still condemned in the European Court of Human Rights for its lengths of trial and long imprisonment that have turned into imprisonment. I'm not saying it as an accusation, I'm just saying it to analyze a result. There's a law set up here for a solution to a problem that turns out to be a problem. This could be a long-term result, and this could be a result of various ministries, and I'm not saying anything, but you're going to be running a country for ten years, and if you can't develop a measure of the consequences that have now turned into shame because of your own time or because of previous times, it's an expression of weakness. What conclusion? The European Court of Human Rights says that now that you've become chronic, there's been a structural and systematic problem, you've had a long trial. The state of long imprisonment that has turned into a conviction is no longer appropriate, so it does not suit the principle of being a state of law, the principle of democracy, the principle of fair trial, the norms of the European Court of Human Rights, a country that is a member of this court, that has signed this contract. You've become chronic, a structural and systematic problem. In this case, we're developing a technique, we're deciding on a case as a pilot, and from now on, we're going to evaluate all applications on that basis. So this is punishment. There's no way you can settle down now. I'm going to hold off these kinds of cases from you until I can build a structure in your own internal law that will solve this problem. Dear friends, valued MPs, valued members of the Justice and Development Party; this result does not suit Turkey. Both, Mr. Cemil Cicek, my dear fellow Sadullah Ergin, are people I respect and respect for their personalities, and I don't mean to blame them. Whatever it is you're busy with, the result of the decade you've been running the country... come and confess here that you've failed, that you've failed. You have to admit that you have injured the most valuable common denominator of this society, such as the sense of justice. Now, I believe Mr. Secretary will say something here, but as you've always said, I think you should do the same here as you do with those 2002 values you've always referred to. Dear lawmakers, look, when you brought the Turkish Penal Code here in 2004, and then you brought the Law on Debts and Trade Law here -- we were in the parliament at the time -- we said something in a fierce cry as the National Movement Party Group. We said that if you change the language of law, especially if you change the language of the penal code, if you change its hierarchy, its material system, you will cause serious trouble in the judiciary. Judgement sits down to learn these laws again. You can't stop these piles. You said, "Then we've adapted to the Law of Civil Law, and you've removed the Law of Civil Law." It could be true. We have proposed that we change the language of the Civil Law, and we change the hierarchy of matter if necessary. But as a result today, Turkey took the lead in the most convicted, sued country rankings in the European Court of Human Rights on the length of its trial. With 16,650 files, our citizens have filed a complaint against the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights dropped out of business, decided on 440 cases, convicted Turkey. There are still 3,500 files waiting. So this conclusion does not suit Turkey, yes, the Turkish nation, to me, this country, the AKP, who is in power with the votes of this nation. Now, at this point, you'll say: cases left over from the previous period of 2002, cases from the past. Look, Mr. Minister, St. Nursery, valued MPs; the investigation file that came to the prosecutors of the Republic in 2002 has increased by 2 million 935,000, up by 105 percent in 2012; 6 million, 15,000 in 2012. The trial period in criminal courts was two hundred and thirty-two days in 2002. In 2012 -- you've been reforming the judiciary at work for ten years, and you're bragging about it -- that's two hundred thirty-two days and two hundred ninety-one days after ten years. That time in the court of law went from one hundred and seventy-four days to two hundred and fourteen days. It's been up from five hundred and forty-four days to seven hundred and eighty-three days in criminal cases. Now, there's a very good saying: "The late justice does not bring justice, it brings injustice." We've turned you into the power of oppression. We don't throw you off the grid when we accuse you. That's what you get. So, with this law, you propose a solution to compensate for a result that is your work. Your posture is wrong, not correct the consequences, but correct the reasons. You need to know that you can't fix the results until you've fixed the reasons. So the measure you've brought is not right either. Nor is the measure you proposed by this law, which you have brought under the request of the European Court of Human Rights. In the following article, I would like to present our criticism and the recommendation of the National Movement Party. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0051par0075	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Bolu MP Fehmi Cubic on behalf of himself. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Cube.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0052par0079	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Article 8 of Law Bill 342. I hereby salute your delegation and our beloved nation. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that violations regarding the right to a fair trial of the European Convention on Human Rights have been going on in our country for many years, and that the issue has been a structural and systematic problem in the internal legal system, and that many cases ahead of it will therefore apply the pilot's decision procedure. As of the end of 2011, the European Court of Human Rights has a total number of problems appeals against our country and is related to the claim of a lengthy trial of about 2,500. As of 2012, it is estimated that it will find 3,500. Dear lawmakers, as stated in Taha Akyol's article titled "The Pilot's Cause" on 3 March 2012 concerning these cases, the 35-year-old cadastro case is still under way and unfortunately, similar cases are available in the European Court of Human Rights. With this bill, this bill has been drafted to resolve these setbacks in our internal law and to fulfill its requirements. Despite rapid judicial reform in recent years, trials have not ended in a reasonable amount of time. As in the example of Ummuhan Kaplan, the relevant ones apply to the ECHR and again justify the 6th article on the right to a fair trial of the European Convention on Human Rights, and there are numerous violations against the Republic of Turkey. Thus, a model for dissension is being developed before the resolution of a violation of the bill is made. 1) Each year, a significant amount of compensation will be prevented, 2) The negative views of our country in the field of human rights in the international community will be monitored. Article 39 of the European Convention on Human Rights shall carry the title of "Friendly Solutions." The model envisioned by the bill aims to resolve discrepancies by creating a vision of internal law before the ECHR makes a decision about discrepancy. The commission is also intended to be introduced in the form of an administrative board so that it can work effectively and that our citizens can get their rights as soon as possible. The problem is that the judiciary has already failed to resolve conflicts within reasonable time. The commission will not have the authority to oversee the judiciary, but will rule on compensation by observing the ECHM's precedents, and will not make any decisions concerning the decision of the judicial authority and will not make any evaluations, so to speak, adopt a process of outcome-oriented, fast-working. Again, the commission will not execute the judicial function while reviewing it, nor will it conduct a review of entity-substantiated and hostileity. The bill will be limited to the length of their trial period on the basis of the ECHM criteria. The compensation is the model of the results of applications. The 8th article, which I have promised, has arranged for an example of the commission's final decision to be sent to the relevant legal or administrative authorities as a result of its application and application to the commission. Dear lawmakers, with this law bill, there has been envisioned an internal law and solution focused on the outcome of a swift, fair and reasonable trial of negative beliefs on the international platform. There is no doubt that appreciation for this bill belongs to the High Assembly of Taltif. I, on behalf of myself, approve the law of this bill, and, again, salute your delegation and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0053par0093	Thank you, Mr. Cube. Adana MP Fatosh Gürkan. Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0054par0097	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have taken a solemn pledge on the 8th Amendment of the 342 rows of the underprivileged Bill of Law, and I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation following us. To our brother Mehmet Doğan of Adana, who was killed at Hakkari Çukurca, who was buried today, I wish God's mercy to his family and to our great nation. God rest his soul. The application of the bill to the commission and the application of an example of the commission's final decisions to be submitted to the legal or administrative authority as a result of the commission's application has yet to be finalised by the relevant legal or administrative authority, if the procedure has not been concluded. The job we did before the legislature was, unfortunately, the most we complained about in the profession of law enforcement was that the trial was long-term. In the light of justice, the late act of justice was one of the things the citizen complained about the most. Dear lawmakers, despite the rapid work of judicial reform in recent years, for various reasons, unfortunately, are able to extend trial periods and take out reasonable time. There are numerous violations against our country due to problems with our judicial system that have been moved to the European Court of Human Rights. These violation decisions also affect our country's prestige on the international platform, as our friends have just mentioned, as well as a significant amount of compensation each year. Of course, the fact that trials do not come to an end in a reasonable amount of time also has a negative effect on the confidence of individuals and institutions in the judiciary. We discussed it at the Constitutional Commission, and it became law, and instead of being exhausted and headed to the European Court of Human Rights in Turkey, a Human Rights Foundation was established to receive individual applications for the Constitutional Court. He began his work on 23 September 2012. The Human Rights Institution receives the following individual applications, but the issue of this law is about files that have been submitted to the previously applied European Court of Human Rights. Of course, during the AK PARTY rule period, there was actually very important work done on the judiciary. When we looked at it, 34 per cent were especially increased by the number of judges and prosecutors, with more than 35 per cent increased by the number of courts. Again, the number of residency courts increased by 23 per cent to 984. Again, the HSYK decision dated June 7, 2011 and the decision was made to establish regional court courts in 15 counties. Like this, again, in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, especially in the Court, the number of apartments has been increased, but due to the piled-up files earlier, unfortunately, judicial services seem to have been heavily stockpiled. There's an exemplary decision, Ummhan Kaplan's decision. Our friends just told me, and I'm not gonna talk about it. This decision -- it was a decision taken by pilot -- is planned to end these files within a year by establishing internal legal channels, by paying the compensation for the accumulated files in Turkey. In the purpose of the law, the European Court of Human Rights is expected to acknowledge that the way to civil law is effective if these criteria are met, especially after the commission's work. Of course, with four people appointed by our Ministry of Justice to decide on the applications to be made under this law, the commission of a total of one person to be appointed by our Finance Ministry is envisioned, and in the case of law enforcement, an important problem will be resolved, especially among many of our citizens. Of course, an important work has been done on the proposed bill. I thank the Minister, the bureaucrats, all of our friends on the committee, who have been working on this bill, and I say good luck to our country and our nation in the event that it becomes law, and I salute your grand delegation and our holy nation.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0055par0106	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Moving on to QA. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0056par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. How many prisoners and prisoners are there in prisons in our country as of this month? How many of these are under 18 years old? How many of the prisoners are in prison for drug and substance abuse? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0057par0112	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0058par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are already major problems, as the UYAP system does not have adequate infrastructure, as file payments to the executive offices are fully implemented through the banks' channel. The Law No. 6352 must leave bank account information in the executive offices within six months of the law's execution to be paid through the executive offices channel, but the amendments were kept before the amendments were issued in accordance with the law. Despite this arrangement, the Ministry of Justice has broken the law on January 4, 2013, preventing executive agencies from paying right now, and executive agencies are unable to do business between law and generality. There must be an immediate attempt to fix this situation. Do you intend to pave the way for executive agencies to pay? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0059par0117	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Your Honor... no. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0060par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know your undersecretary has a Foundation for Enhancing the Justice Department. One of the aims of this foundation, judge, is to provide for prosecutors' housing. However, the appointment, the judge who did not evacuate the dwelling within two months due to the transfer, pension, is receiving interest, such as 1,000 per cent -- I pay attention, 1,000 per cent more -- and 110 per cent more rent per month, 120 per cent interest per year. Do you intend to change this application? In particular, they're asked to vacate the appointment and exiles without any further appeals, judge, the prosecutors. This is causing serious damage. We don't think it's appropriate for the Department of Justice to be a loan shark. How do you feel? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0061par0123	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0062par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the bill we have discussed can assess applications to the European Court of Human Rights until September 23, 2012. Well, there are people who have never applied to the European Court of Human Rights before this date -- long trials, long imprisonments -- who have also complained. Now, if we think that the reason why these people can't apply for this commission is because they can't apply to international agencies, don't we feel like we've punished these people? Even if they do not apply to the European Court of Human Rights to those who complain about long trials and long detentions, will you have a motion to apply for the right to benefit from this law?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0061par0127	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0063par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of our citizens are victims of a violation of their commitment to the Law on Institution and Bankruption. I get a lot of calls every day, like a lot of our congressman friends. In these days, when the pardon of even the director of the terrorist organization, Apokay, is it on the agenda of house arrest, is your ministry doing a study for our underprivileged citizens who have committed a violation of the commitment? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0064par0132	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Tanal, come again.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0065par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're going to foreclosures by means of the Foundation for Enforcement of Justice. However, because the vehicles are not equipped with a meter, high fees are assigned from debtors, and isn't that a violation of human rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0066par0137	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0067par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. The first question was Mr. Reshat Right. How many prisoners are in prison this month? He asked the details of them. As of today, we have about 136 thousand prisoners and prisoners in our prisons. The prisoners are 32,169 and 104 thousand in the custody position. The prisoner rate is 23.5%. In 2000 and 2001, it was a ratio between 49 per cent and 51 per cent. Of course, the point that has been made during that period is an important point. From 49 per cent to 51 per cent, it was not easy to reduce the proportion of prisoners to 23.5 per cent. We don't think that 23.5 percent of the prisoners are enough, we've brought measures, solutions, and we've followed them. This ratio is acceptable among the European Council member states. When you look at it, the rate of arrest in France is more than 24.5%; the average of the European Union is 23.5%. So Turkey, the prisoner in the prisons of EU member states, has caught the proportions of prisoners and has fallen below them. We don't think it's enough, we're trying to move it further. The question of Mr. Right has details, demands information. I'll give them to him in writing as well. Mr. Tanal.. an application has been launched from the beginning of January, according to the provisions of Mr. Tanal....which were included in the third judicial package that we had released, and which have eliminated the exchange of money for the parties in the executive offices and made it necessary for all financial transactions to be processed through the bank account. There's an alliance at the point of this practice, there's no conflict here. However, we have received some complaints that allow the practice to walk healthy. We had a meeting this morning with the President and his executives of the Bar Association. We're working on additional measures under those negotiations, and we'll make it up to you as soon as possible, Mr. Tanal. A question from Mr. Original Day: The judge in ATGV housing stated that the rent to the prosecutors is too steep and that a huge amount of interest has been imposed on them if they fail to meet the obligation to vacate their housing. Dear lawmakers, of course, the judge is drafting prosecutors' amendments at certain times of the year. The judge, who was appointed to another position under the decree, is the judge who was replaced by another district, and our prosecutors are waiting for them to evacuate the premises unless our prosecutors evacuate their quarters.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0068par0145	Mr. Secretary, the duration of the appeal is not expected. Look, if the objection is accepted, he will continue his mission there.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0067par0146	Yeah. So it's a measure of complete health care.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0068par0148	1,000 percent...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0067par0149	From time to time, we think it's a countermeasure against practices that might want to use this time in a way that exceeds purpose.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0068par0150	But it's 1,000 percent, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0067par0151	But let's review the applications in this framework, in the context of your question, and see if there are more improvements to be made, Mr. Original Day. Other than that, is the question of Mr. Yilmaz (Mr. Yilmaz) that those who have not applied or applied to the European Court of Human Rights before September 23, 2012 will not be able to take advantage of it? Now, look at the work done in the past by commissions set up to prevent the harm of terrorism. It was also a way for those who claimed to be victims of these injuries and proved their position, their damage. You have to take a starting point in this regard, and we've put in front of you a bill on the basis of long-trial complaints from those who had applied to the ECHM prior to September 23, 2012, when we accepted an individual application to the Constitutional Court. Dear friends, we did a study at the point of making amends. If similar demands come about him, we will also consider whether we can meet them or not.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0154	We're out of time.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0067par0155	Okay. I'll answer questions I can't answer in writing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we move on to the motions on matter. There are three motions I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "Commission" (Constitutional Court") be replaced in Article 8 of the Constitutional Court. Faruk Bal Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Tunca Tuskaya Oktay Özturk Cemalettın Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 8 of the Common Law Bill 342 shall be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Malik Ecder Özdemir Mustafa Moroğlu Birgül Ayman Güler Kamer Young (2) If the procedure has not yet been concluded or concluded late, the court's decisions are carried out or partially executed, the procedure is immediately concluded by the relevant judicial or administrative authority. The commission also informs institutions on whether or not there will be disciplinary action on the responsible and whether compensation will be assessed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Bill 342 be removed from the bill. Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Estate Onetane Does the Commission agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0070par0179	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0180	The government...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0071par0181	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0182	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0072par0183	Motive...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0184	You want me to make you read the motive? The United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and other contracts, particularly the European Convention on Human Rights, which we are part of under Article 90 of the Constitution, was intended to implement in internal law, to address the victims born of practice, to punish those responsible. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the Law Bill 342 be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends (2) If the procedure has not yet been concluded or concluded late, the court's decisions are carried out or partially executed, it is immediately concluded by the relevant judicial or administrative authorities. The commission also informs institutions on whether or not there will be disciplinary action on those responsible and whether compensation will be applied. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0073par0194	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0195	The government...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0074par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0069par0197	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0075par0200	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to amendments in Article 8 of Bill 342, which I hereby salute all of you. My dear friends, the length of the trial is a bleeding wound in our country, the long-term trial of patriots, intellectuals, journalists, soldiers, students, politicians, who don't look at the eyes of power, who don't speak their language. Freedom is the greatest and most important human right after life's right. This bill was raised by the government when the issue that restricting freedom and the random use of detention as a measure of action was no longer a measure, but turned into a punishment, reflected in the European Court of Human Rights decisions and reports of international human rights organisations. However, there is no change of mind in this bill. So it's always the same head, the AKP head that's been in power for ten years. A bill to continue these violations, not long-term rights violations, not to prevent unjust imprisonment, but to accept them with money, to reassure international institutions and the European Court of Human Rights. Moreover, an arrangement that is close to the power that makes long judgments toward the congregation, to protect close judges, prosecutors, and to put them in the position of the beheading woman who breaks the family. My dear friends, there's no sanction in this bill for violators of rights. There's not even an adjustment to the body. As such, the bill will not carry any deterrents for public officials who have been negligent in the lengthy trials, and since it will not carry any deterrents, it will not prevent long-term trials in internal law. Every opportunity will signal new violations of rights that remain in the dark, covered and not investigated. It will also be encouraging and encouraging for those who have committed or responsible for human rights violations, not being investigated, not being tried, not being punished, and more importantly, to promote those responsible in our country to higher ranks. My dear friends, since this law does not foresee an sanction and does not regulate the matter of the crisis, it cannot prevent the prosecutor from ordering the congregations to take two orders from the congregations. The Lighthouse can't stop you from judging your prosecutors without judging your defendants. In the Oda TV case, the owner of the website, the editors, the 75-year-old Professor Yalçın Tüççın, who was alleged to have helped them in their trial without arrest, and the police chief Hanefi Avcı, who was told to have helped them again, can't remove the joy and unlawfulness of the trial of the prisoner. If this bill becomes legal, the judge who lost a son while he was in prison and who was clawed between the four walls of the prison with a deadly disease can't help but feel sorry for the judge who didn't decide to release Dr. Fatih Hilmioğlu. Once again, this bill becomes legal, it can't prevent the Sivas trial and similar cases from being timed out. If this law is enforced in this way, it can't prevent the joy and cruelty of a judge who made this decision on grounds that an organeral can't cause a coup in a sledgehammer's case. Again, if this law becomes legal, it can't stop the leaders of the union members of KESK, who have no crime but to work as a unionist, from being tried as a member of a terrorist organization. My dear friends, as I end my speech, these days, Professor Hilmioğlu, whom I've just mentioned, has been given great duties to this Parliament in order to release our friend, friend, and precious intellectual from prison, who lost a son in a car accident while he was in prison and is now in the grip of death. And I know it's a debt to remind you of that. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0076par0212	Thank you, Mr. Köse. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the term "Commission" (Construction) in Article 8 of the Common Law Bill shall be changed to "The Constitutional Court" (The Constitutional Court). Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0077par0219	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0076par0220	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0078par0221	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0079par0222	Motive.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0076par0223	I'm reading the reason: The Constitutional Court, which is the higher authority of the judiciary, must decide on the request for compensation for the judiciary as required by the legal state. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. MADDE 9 - (1) This Law is applied to the European Court of Human Rights as of 23/9/2012. (2) The duration of the first joke can be extended by the Council of Ministers at the Ministry's proposal. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 9, Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0080par0235	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, I salute your grand delegation. And I'm sorry that I can't talk about the content of the substance, but I think it's more important to talk about the whole of the law than to talk about matter in its content. The previous article, as I said in the case of further discussion, is a structural and systematic apology by the European Court of Human Rights, a problem, as expressed by this law in a very sincere way. This needs a solution. I don't know if they've given the government time to produce this solution, but building a structure in civil law has become a necessity. The point is that Turkey is now disabled, Turkey is a troubled country on the scale of the world, and Turkey is a country worthy of an unbecoming sentence, and a solution must be developed. That's what they say. It's a form of evidence that the government agreed to this law by bringing it here, that they agreed to it, that they sort of admitted it. It's also a confession that you've wronged and wronged your own people with a long-term arrest issue. At this point, even though they've been elected lawmakers for nearly two years today, I salute the MPs, the elected lawmakers, who have still been turned into prisoners. I condemn what was done to them. Dear friends, as I just said, this law is a law that has been brought to a conclusion -- the outcome of the AKP ruling our country for ten years -- as a measure. We're dealing with a law that doesn't question reasons. For him, we, first, think that we should question the reasons before we take precautions. We know you're in a position to know that fighting mosquitoes isn't an effective path without drying the swamp. Therefore, we, the National Movement Party, have to express our opinion and our precautionary package or solution for the reasons responsible for this outcome. In our opinion, the fact that the judiciary has continued so long and that this has become an injustice, a persecution is fundamentally due to the fact that the electronic system, the technique in the judiciary, has not been used properly and effectively. That's why. So it takes a lot of time to decide whether or not to collect evidence, to collect evidence, to compile evidence, to decide whether or not they're done through those classic methods that we know of. Long-term trials arise with the assumption that quick decision-making will also lead to error. On the use of this technique, we have expressed in our long-term programs, in our talks, in the national judicial system expressed by the National Party of Action, in artificial intelligence, the acceleration of the judiciary, the need to bring to justice the artificial intelligence system that should prevent judges from doing the procedure. But so far, there's no way to say that the judiciary has taken advantage of all the technology's needs, that there's been enough infrastructure on this subject. That's one reason for the outcome. The second reason is that personnel problems have not been solved. Today, judicial officials have many problems that we can rank in many other areas, starting with the rights of judicial workers -- in law, with the bailiff. I mean, like a tailor who can't sew his own clothes, he can't get himself a fair, real right, law, universal law status, and with these rapid changes... So as a result, the people who work in the judiciary are human beings. There's pressure on politics, administrative pressures, a lot of other things we can count. At the end of all of this, with a loss of motivation, fear, a guarantee of justice, a guarantee of justice, the speed of judgment as a result of all these problems, unfortunately, has brought us to the point of our conviction. As a result of these two reasons, the crime scene has expanded and deepened. Turkey has become a paradise of criminals or a state of social insanity. There's no way to accept those crimes that actually happened in society today. He kills his two children, people commit suicide. So with the expansion and deepening of the criminal environment, the expansion and deepening of legal and administrative cases is, of course, the result of the two reasons we just counted. As a result, unfortunately, Turkey has become a condemned, disabled country with the European Court of Human Rights due to its length of trial. So the government is running Turkey. Of course, the government is responsible for this accusation, but it's a matter for all of us as Turkey, it's a matter for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it's a matter for our nation. So, Sultan Süleyman, this is not the outcome of the generation of this nation today, which has made the law, the law, the law, the rule, the way of governance a civilization, and that is why I think of it. Why would it be like that? Madam Secretary will object, but look, there are some laws we shouldn't play with too much. You've changed the Turkish Penal Code 10 times since 2004, you've changed the Penal Code, the Law of Offenses many times. After every change, there have been four cases in which a case has been seen as a basis for a retrial of provisions in favor of the defendant. Now, if the judge sees the same case in front of you four times, is it possible that the trial could be over? In a sense, crime has increased, crime has expanded, and Turkey has become a criminal state because of the problems that have occurred, and society has become a country of criminals, and if you play with the penal code so often, if you constantly change the rule and consider it a reason to retribut it, you will not be able to close the trial very soon. After this conclusion, my dear friends, I'd like to bring one thing to your attention. The politics that exercise authority for society, the jurisdiction that applies to society, all of our people have a fundamental responsibility, to develop a sense of justice. If we, as individuals of this community or of this community, lose the sense of justice, if we lose our trust in the state, in the judiciary at this point, we cannot achieve our will to live together or our effort to be great together, our purpose, our goal. Dear friends, these are problems, but I don't think the solution to this problem is right. What are you doing? You say to the judge: "You have failed, and I will do it with a board of directors, and I will do it. You insult the judgment. You're interfering with the authority of the law by carrying the matter of the judiciary to the Council of Ministers. You're interfering with the law and you're interfering with the judiciary. This is against the essence of democracy, this is against our democratic system, it's against the Constitution, it's against the separation of forces. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're building a law here. You're in charge of law-breaking, law-approved by your fingers, and you're making an arrangement against the Constitution, against universal law, against our democratic system. You're authorizing the error of the judiciary, the Prime Minister, the government... to extend the government... so that an executive who intervenes in the functioning of the judiciary, who has the right to expand the legislation, does not exist in the parliamentary democratic system. If we claim that separation of forces is the essence of our system, that we are a state of law, that we are governed by a democratic system, that's completely wrong. So you can't get it right by doing it wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, it is imperative to uphold this law. I believe the government will correct this with its motions. With this hope, with this wish, I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0081par0251	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0082par0255	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as I speak, I offer my condolences for the deaths of eight of our workers in Zonguldak, in the mine accident, to their families, to our entire nation, to the world of labor. But it's not enough to offer my condolences, you know. As our President-General explained, if there are Court reports on that mine and there are no work safety measures on that mine, there is a serious government flaw in that. I don't just want to offer my condolences for him. I don't have a Minister here who deals with social security and business security, but if there are serious accidents in these mines, they need to be taken care of, and the reports of the occupational safety experts on this matter need to be fulfilled. If it's not being carried out, these mines need to be shut down. Now, we must never allow more of our people to be left to die in plain sight. I know it's a debt to report from here. At the same time, I offer my condolences to the family of Mehmet Doğan, who died in the attack of 110 terrorists in Hakkari Çukurca, and to the entire nation, and to our two wounded soldiers, and to our two wounded soldiers. These days, both the Imran and the Kandil have been accepted, the legalizing path, the negotiating with terrorism, the creating of such emotion, as if a step towards the end of terrorism in the country, and hope has been created today, and we've seen that terrorism is not going to give up terrorism. And I offer this to all our people's appreciation. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to announce our views on Article 9 of this Bill 342. We have expressed the error of this substance, the lack of it. Our motion will be read shortly, and we'd like to have this item replaced in that frame. In fact, there are many flaws in this law, there are flaws, and it's a temporary law, so it's written in the name of the law. When he came to the Commission, his name was changed exactly as follows: "We're setting up a temporary law on the Restitution of Some Appropriations to the European Court of Human Rights." If applications were made only to the European Court of Human Rights, we are trying to eliminate this human rights violation by paying compensation for them by hand of a commission. It's such a temporary situation. But what is it supposed to be? With this temporary arrangement here, we can't solve this problem. What are we doing here, dear friends? We will make an effort to avoid such violations of rights due to long-term rights violations in private legal cases, criminal investigations and trials. We say, "We will remove rights violations in this matter." We also say, "We will renegotiate rights violations in Turkey by applying to a commission created by applying to the European Court of Human Rights by September 23, 2012. And when we look at the purpose of this law, it's called resolving rights violations due to trial, and it's said to be done because of respect for human rights. We will resolve the setbacks in our own internal law. We also say that the case of Ommuhan Kaplan, chosen as a pilot, will be met. The Ummuhan Kaplan case is said to be a model case of a citizen who has appealed to the European Court of Human Rights because of the long trials, and the other 2,500 cases that have resulted in this case were motivated to find an effective course in our internal law, and so has the European Court of Human Rights. But with this temporary legal arrangement, how long will we be able to solve it? Are we really going to be able to eliminate human rights violations? The rights of those who have applied to the European Court of Human Rights until 23/9/2012 are subject to regulation, compensation will be paid, and perhaps partially try to meet their rights on this issue, but I have just asked Mr. Secretary. What arrangement do you intend to make for those who have been forced by long trials, long imprisonments, who have not applied to the European Court of Human Rights before 23/9/2012? We asked at the commission and asked here. Mr. Minister's statement is very clear: We are only making such an arrangement to dissolve those 2,500 cases in the European Court of Human Rights. Can human rights violations be eliminated by temporary solutions? Unfortunately, we don't think our country's poor grade on human rights can be resolved with this legal arrangement. But what should it be, dear friends? These lengthy trials, long detentions, long trials in both criminal law and other law courts, need a scalpel. We need to correct some of the mistakes, wrongs, wrong practices in our internal law that could lead to these lengthy trials. Of course, the most important thing about this is to ensure the independence of the judiciary and the neutrality of the judiciary, but unfortunately, we don't see that approach in the AKP's government. That's why we're trying to come up with temporary solutions to disseminate our country's bad impression of existing human rights violations. So if we don't organize our own internal legal ways effectively in this way, these issues will continue to go back to the European Court of Human Rights, dear friends. Now, the date 23/9/2012 is considered a start, and the European Court of Human Rights considers it a start, for some reason. The reason for this is that after 23/9/2012 the Constitutional Court has been granted an individual application, it is also said by the European Court of Human Rights that the European Court of Human Rights may be submitted to the Supreme Court due to the lengthy trials, which, in effect, is that by 23/9/2012, you will dissolve 2,500 cases that have been applied to these rights violations within the European Court of Human Rights. So about the individual application, we all know that this individual application -- which was held on September 12, 2010 in Article 148 of the Constitution -- must have been exhausted once. So, the fact that the internal legal pathways are exhausted means that they're going through the Supreme Court phase and it's going to be finalized. Now, if there's such a violation stemming from long trial, is there an effective complaint until you pass the Supreme Court and go to the Supreme Court? What then, dear friends? The Constitutional Court won't see it as acceptable because you haven't exhausted your civil law, and this decision is not final. Then people will start going back to the European Court of Human Rights, and then the files about us will start to focus again, dear friends. So we say that because this legal arrangement is not a truly effective domestic legal pathway, it will never reach the desired goal. Now, I want to talk about -- the end of the process -- and I want to talk about the European Court of Human Rights now that Turkey is going to get a lot more punishment because finally, even the reason for the Balyoz trial shows that the justice in this country has been reduced to what it is, that the reason is not even consistent, that there are a lot of wrongs, and there are a lot of mistakes, and there are things that aren't. These, my friends, will return from the European Court of Human Rights, and the Republic of Turkey will have to pay very serious sentences. In fact, there should be arrangements for the neutrality and independence of the judiciary, but the Prime Minister says: "I will not have the state of the Republic of Turkey touch 26 articles. " Then the Republic of Turkey will never be able to get rid of this evil impression of the European Court of Human Rights that violates its human rights. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0083par0271	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0084par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the length of the proceedings and the tardiness of the Court's decisions have been based on the name of the law and the date of the individual application of the Constitutional Court, September 23rd, as well as on the date of its application. In fact, the purpose of this law is very clear: Turkey was the most convicted country in the European Court of Human Rights, the country against which the decision was most passed, and there were 16,650 applications, how can we intercept it? You can cut this off either way: One, you really run the law, you apply the contracts you're on, justice comes out. You stop wiretaps, you stop illegal operations, you stop maladjusted operations, you respect life rights, you respect personal rights, you respect discrimination; you respect property rights, housing rights, family rights, all of them; you promote your law according to this; and most importantly, you provide security and freedom of the person, you prevent abuse, and you end the ban on labor. It's that obvious now. Now it's hard to do these things, it's hard to apply them. What do we do? Let's put a set in front of the cases first. How? Let's set up an individual application for the Constitutional Court. So you're opening an individual application path to the Constitutional Court to your citizen for a fee. Applications are free of charge in the European Convention on Human Rights, which you side with. For free, without a lawyer, even a letter is perceived as an application motive, according to which applications are sent, citizens are not victimized; but the Constitutional Court has already made no serious decision by looking at the format, shape, date, and duration of applications. Look, it's September 23rd, January 2013, and there are very few applications, because lawyers haven't received an internship in the bar yet. There's another way: five years in the process, how do we dissolve cases in the European Court of Human Rights? Now there are two features of the European judiciary, the above-national judiciary. When someone makes a violation decision, you go to a change of regulations, you make up your laws, you make up your mentality, your functioning, that's what's right, that's what's important. It'll go in second degree and the compensations will come in. In the first degree, you meet the requirements of those regulations, the requirements of the contract, the requirements of respect. That's what all countries do, and the Committee of Ministers oversees it. Now, I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister of Justice, how many decisions are there on the Committee of Ministers that wait and the European Court of Human Rights have not been carried out? I was going to ask, Mr. Secretary, but the Ministry officials are here, they can answer. How many European Court of Human Rights decisions are there that you haven't implemented? I'm waiting for the answer to that question. Now, it is said by this law that the length of the judgment period and the decisions that have not been implemented here in the pilot trial of Ummuhan Kaplan, there is a lengthy process of judgment on property related to the land, concerning the cadastro. And it usually is; cases from the father and grandfather continue, and they don't end. These cases lead to grandkids, cause conflicts, cause feuds, and cause our country's truth, but not only Turkey, but also Italy, in other countries. In cases like this, we can understand that you bring an effective solution, a short solution. In the case of Ummhan Kaplan, it is understandable to step up an effort in this matter because the pilot's case is subject to property. So, when it comes to freedom of character, when it comes to discrimination, how will you handle it? Now, that's something the Justice Department needs to think about. You're going to make up for the freedoms? You're going to close your sentence with compensation for a mistrial based on unjust trials? Because you had a chance to retrial in the face of ECHR decisions in the past, you used it, you used it, you took it, you got retrialed, you got acquitted, maybe you could lift your political ban, especially if you were a member of the ruling party. Now you're going to lose that chance, and there's a danger. Now, here's one or two words that I'm going to say very clearly: with 75 million people, with this budget from the Ministry of Justice, Turkey can't give justice, my friends. The Ministry of Justice's budget must have at least a quarter of its security budgets. You need to get the forensic police, the armband, through security, so if the Justice Department really wants to do a fair job, they need to strategically put the courthouse armband inside the judicial reform. The courthouse's armband should be separate, friends, he needs to get the police inside the prisons from the gendarmes, as he did at his own justice academys, starting with his school, until his education. I'll tell you one more thing: the current judge and prosecutor need to increase their deficits, personnel deficits, at least three times that, which requires money, friends, budgets. You can't bring justice to this country without putting up this budget. No matter how much the Ministry's efforts are, they won't prevent them. Can you spare me the personal listening, the secret listening? - That's what they say, right or wrong? - There was a bug at the Prime Minister's office. They said, "Well, let them spray my soul." Can you guys figure it out this way? If you can avoid listening under medication, let's do his law; it doesn't work. There's one other thing, of course, it's better to make it clear. If the Justice Department's budget is not above the police, the gendarmes, the National Defense Department, the military, the people with the guns, if the law doesn't give them power, you can't get justice in this country. Anyone with a gun is stronger than you, and that's a fact. The Minister of Justice is also facing a historic responsibility. He really is the key ministry in the coming of peace and democracy to our country. In South Africa, we read the justice ministers of 93, 94, 95 years, and you read them, and we see that the ministry of justice is very effective in the peace of that country, in democracy, in the state of law, and in solving the most difficult problems. These recent negotiations, the Imralı process, the resolving of problems without weapons, the removal of Turkey's weapon, the establishment of peace in Turkey, today Turkey is the demand of 95 per cent of the public, friends. There is support in this issue from the civil society, from the media, from all sides. Mr. Minister of Justice, the government needs to strengthen the Prime Minister. With this budget, it's really hard for the Minister. In this regard, if we really want to go to reform in Turkey, the government should organise its budget in order to establish a new era in its strategy. It is not possible for the budget to meet such efforts. Solving this problem with compensation commissions is a palliative solution, and I wish you success with real solutions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0085par0289	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0086par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, due to the lack of a meter in the vehicles of the Justice Agency's Enforcement Foundation, there is a fee being paid from the debtors, who are on the same basis as Ankara-Istanbul's description of Turkish Airlines. This is a major human rights violation. Are you planning on reviewing this or wearing a meter? My second question: are the tools of the Justice Agency's Enhancing Foundation not an unfair competition for people who make a living in commercial taxis in the city? Wouldn't it be fair to the debtors if the meter opened? At the same time, wouldn't we be protecting the rights and laws of our commercial tradesman, the commercial taxi drivers? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0087par0296	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0088par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I've already submitted a question motion, and you've given him an answer. There were different things in that answer, the criteria for those who were being sued. In 2010, you reported that the number of cases in 2002 was 100,000 -- the number of cases I'm rounding -- is 19,000 and over 200,000 -- is less than 18 years of age. I gave you another question on this, on the 4th of April, on the 5th, nine months ago. You haven't answered me in writing in nine months. There I wanted them to distribute according to the Anti-Terror Law on children under the age of 18 and all other crimes, and I wanted 2011. What's the number of lawsuits for under 18 years of age for 2011? These numbers didn't come to me. You've been responding to my motions very shortly, but you haven't responded to this motion in nine months. Why don't you give it to me?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0087par0300	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0089par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, in the matter set out within the law, it is said that the commission will be issued a decision on those who have the right to apply to the ECHR for long trials and later apply to the commission, and when the commission has decided on this issue, the judicial and administrative authority will be informed, and if the incident is not finalized, it will be concluded with urgency, but no sanctions will be imposed. And when there's no sanction, it doesn't mean anything. The exemplary laws -- you know -- there are regulations on this, both about the processor and the opening of an investigation if there's any negligence. Don't you think you should put that in the law? So since this is ultimately important to us, those who have caused the lengthy trials must be affected in some way, in some way they need to face sanctions. Otherwise, this arrangement will not matter. Is there going to be a sanction on this?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0087par0304	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0090par0306	Mr. Minister, we have repeatedly addressed the problems of Professor Dr. Fatih Hilmioğlu, the former chancellor of Inönu University, from here to the House. Hilmioğlu has been under arrest for the Ergenekon case for four years. Although experts reported to Hilmioğlu, who had been diagnosed with the beginning of liver cancer, that he should be treated at the university hospital, Forensic Medicine has decided to be treated at the state hospital. Under insufficient circumstances, now at a state hospital, four gendarmes are trying to be treated under the supervision of two prison guards. As one of Turkey's most important medical doctors, Hilmioğlu of Fatih Hilmioglu, who had worked very hard to open the liver transplant center in Malatya, has been in prison for four years because he visited the General Command of the Gendarmes and ate with 8 generals, while he and Ilhan Selçuk and Mustafa Balbay have eaten together. Hilmioğlu says two meals is two lifetimes. Is there such a sense of justice? Do you plan to make arrangements for these sick prisoners?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0091par0309	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0092par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Minister of Justice is: Kahramanmarash is the 18th-largest city in Turkey, but unfortunately there are no administrative and tax courts. It goes to cities around us, cases like this, things like that. Do you plan to open administrative and tax courts for heromarash? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0093par0314	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0094par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Tanal had a question from the previous round about how the A.T.G.V. vehicles were being served at high prices in court, and I couldn't answer because it wasn't enough time. Now, Mr. Tanal, if there's a disproportionate fee here, we're certainly going to be serious about this in specific applications, but in general, there's no general complaint against us, except for the individual incidents, but we're willing to share with you what you know and do what is necessary. Let me make that clear right away. I've submitted a motion to ask Mr. Dibek....about the number of cases filed for under 18-year-olds in 2002-2011, 2012, and he hasn't returned... Mr. Dibek will know, I'm trying to answer the question motions as soon as possible.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0095par0321	It's been nine months, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0094par0322	I've answered several of his motions in this regard, but there's a problem with our Statistical Law, which we have to answer by saying, if it's because of him, I'll look into it. You know, the data from that year comes out at the end of the next year. If you wanted that 2012...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0095par0323	I wanted 2011.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0094par0324	If you have requested 2011, this leads to the end of 2012. I'll look into it and get back to you, Mr. Dibek. I don't think there's any special reason. Mr. Akagun Yilmaz says that in the second joke of Article 9, the relevant organs, institutions, the court strives to end this conflict. You don't attach it to sanctions, it says. Dear friends, if the courts or the relevant bodies have an attitude that they have in the sense of neglect of duty, abuse of office, they are already being questioned in the general audit. These are being processed for negligence or abuse, and in the event of a conviction, we also have compensation arrangements. Therefore, these regulations are out of order, but the fact that this law is not written into this law does not mean that the area has been left unsupervised. The regulations required by the law of responsibility on this matter have already been made in our laws. Mr. Ağbaba Fatih Hilmioğlu has raised a question concerning the arrest of Hilmioğlu and the practices of the Forensic Medical Association. Dear friends, we've shared the matter of imprisonment many times from here. There are limits to what the executive body from within the legislature can do here, and there are limits to our Constitution, and we follow the laws, follow the laws, and if there are setbacks, we do corrective actions in this Parliament, but beyond that, do this or do not give a directive to the courts, the prosecutors, the prosecutors. Again, the work of the Coroner's Office is all in the framework of committees of science commissions and scientists, with reports drawn up in that framework. And there's no way we can handle those reports from the outside.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0096par0330	We don't have that request, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0094par0331	In its own arrangement for both savings, there are appeals and litigation rights in other authorities within its implementation. That's all I can tell you about it. Mr Dedeoğlu's question is, do you intend to establish administrative and tax courts for Kahramanmarash? Tax courts and administrative courts can be established in the province if administrative and tax cases opened in that province reach a certain limit. But let's look at the number of files that go to the administration and tax courts in other cities other than Kahramanmarash, and there's really no reason why these courts shouldn't be set up, Mr. Dedeoğlu, I'll examine it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0097par0334	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two motions on matter, I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the current 342 rows of law. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Malik Ecder Özdemir Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Birgül Ayman Güler This law is also applied to the European Court of Human Rights as of 23.9.2012, as well as to applications recorded in the European Court of Human Rights, which are not completed in a reasonable amount of time, including before and after that date." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 9 (23.09.2012) of the 342-line bill, which is being adopted, shall be changed into "31.12.2012" in the article of Article 1 of Article 1. Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Estate Onetane Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0098par0352	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0097par0353	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0099par0354	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0100par0355	Motive.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0097par0356	I'm reading the reason: The UN Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights and other contracts, which we are part of under Article 90 of the Constitution, was intended to implement in internal law, to eliminate the victims born of practice, to punish the responsible. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the current 342 rows of law. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends "One) This Law is also applied to the European Court of Human Rights as of 23.9.2012, as well as to applications recorded in the European Court of Human Rights, which are not completed in a reasonable amount of time, including the pre-date and after." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0101par0366	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0097par0367	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0102par0368	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0097par0369	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0103par0371	Mr. President, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you. Dear friends, in a country, the law can't be above your conscience. If lawmakers in a country make laws that hurt their consciences, it's not law. First, the consciences must speak and everything must fit into the consciences, all the values in one country, all the rules of law must first fit into our consciences. If there is a law that does not apply to the conscience of all the people in the country, and this law does not apply, and it hurts the human conscience, then I would not call it law.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0104par0373	Nor does the Minister!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0103par0374	Dear friends, we are not going to learn from Europe. We have to create our own law, our own values, respect for man, freedom, democracy ourselves. We're not gonna learn from anybody. It's a law on the European Convention on Human Rights, but we have to create our values first. Minister, you just answered about the Conqueror Hilmioğlu. If a person has lost a 19-year-old son, if a person has cancer, I visited the Hunters at the hospital last week, and both cirrhosis and kidney failure now -- it's all over -- it's going to have to be dialysis soon. She had an operation on her lymph nodes. If this person's been in bed for four years, whatever conscience he's guilty of, let him have it. We, whoever's guilty... but there's a conscience in law, first the consciences must speak. The Medical Examiner's Office and the Medical Examiner's Office say that it is a problem that a person should not be in prison. If he says that he should not be in prison, then... you say that we do not interfere. But if there are those who do not apply it, I curse those people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I appeal to the consciences. I don't know who I'm going to report to, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, who's keeping that person there, suffering that person, waiting for his death. Mr. Secretary, this is the legislature. If there is such a problem, if there is such a problem, if such a report exists, it is unconscionable to not see it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I visited him last week, couldn't hold back my tears. If he's guilty... we're not asking anyone to use any authority for their crime, ever. If this is the state of law, we're up to the end of it, but being left to die in prison, it's unconscionable. I offer it to all of you on your consciences. First I don't know what conscience to complain about you, then the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and then the entire committee of that court. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit02spe0105par0385	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0105par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 50th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks of Bill 342. The commission and the government are in place. We were left in the temporary article 1. I'm having it read: The interim Article 1 - (1) Commission members are appointed within a month at the latest from the date of the publication of this Law. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Izmir Congressman Reza Türmen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0106par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the story of a separate reference issue from the long trial is going on: in 2002, the European Court of Human Rights, Kudla Decision, and the European Court of Human Rights decided that the states with which the long trial cases were numerous, would adopt a separate application path, and on top of that, the Italians, here, the Slovenians, the Germans -- in terms of law cases -- the Greeks and Poles set up a separate application path. Turkey is in the same situation. Turkey also has several cases due to its long trial period. For Turkey, the European Court of Human Rights proposed that Turkey form a separate application path for this long trial within a year with the case of Daneshpayeh first, followed by the Ummuhan Kaplan case, and now, the 342th Bill of Law, which we have discussed, fulfills what Turkey has asked for in this Ummuhan Kaplan verdict. It does, but you have to see how well it fits with what's being asked. For one thing, this Bill of Law contains two very serious problems. The first is that the judicial path or application path must be effective for lengthy trial periods. It has to be effective, not just on paper, but in practice. For it to be effective, the first condition is that the European Convention on Human Rights shall be in accordance with the rules of fair judgment, which must be headed by an impartial and independent body. It doesn't have to be a judicial path, just because there's compensation. It's a judicial process, as well as a judicial path, but the compensation commission must be independent and neutral. Independent of who, and neutral of who? The government, of course. However, we're looking at a five-man commission. Four of these five will be appointed by the Ministry of Justice, and one will be appointed by the Ministry of Finance. Now, can it be said that such a commission is neutral and independent? That's problem number one. Not only that, of course. The Minister of Justice will elect the president, and the Ministry of Justice will provide the services of the secretary, so this is far from effective application. Now, if it's not an effective application, then you shouldn't expect the European Court of Human Rights to accept this commission as an effective application. This law carries such a risk, so you will set up a commission, cases will be served, compensations will be given, but therefore, because there is no independent commission, this did not happen, it does not fit my standards, it does not fit my criteria. The second problem is: The 2nd article of the Article 2 of the bill states that the provisions of the Council of Ministers can be carried out in accordance with the intensity of violations made against our country in accordance with the established provisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the additional rights adopted under which Turkey is a party. • This commission can be set in motion, not only for the duration of the trial, but also for other violations proposed by the Ministry of Justice. This, for one thing, is the decision of Ummühan Kaplan to the commission demanded by Turkey... that the decision of Ummah Kaplan does not require such a thing. Ummuhan Kaplan's decision has asked Turkey to set up a commission only for long trial periods, but there is no demand for this commission to be appointed for other violations. But there's something else wrong with that. First of all, what violations will come here, it is unclear, and it is given a very broad authority to the government. Secondly, violations in front of the European Court of Human Rights can't be solved only by paying compensation. This commission is authorized only to pay compensation. He has no authority but to compensate, but the violations of the European Convention on Human Rights are not paid by compensation. Some measures are being asked to be taken to address these violations, some measures are being taken to eliminate that violation. This commission is not authorized, of course. Then how? He'll give you the money, but the breach will continue. I mean, there's something weird about it, there's something weird about it, and it would be right to fix it. It seems here, from this Justice Commission report, that the authors of this bill have written it with the mind of a friendly solution. I mean, if there are too many violations in Turkey, they can be worked out friendlyly, like within the framework of this commission. This does not fit the friendly solution because there are two sides to the friendly solution: the defendant is the state here -- and there is no third party, the plaintiff, and there is no third party. But there are three sides here, the defendant, the plaintiff, and there's a commission, so it's not appropriate for the structure of the friendly solution. In that respect, it is a wrong arrangement. Of course, why is all this being done? All of this is being done for: Turkey is being asked to become a country that respects human rights, which applies to the state of law, which is being done for this. But while this bill is being carried out, we see on another side there are great injustices, huge injustices. The rationale of this last sledgehammer case is the revelation of these injustices, the unlawfulness, the disclosure. Here you see two problems when you read this sledgehammer decision, when you read the motive. First of all, people have been convicted on the basis of an unsubstantiated crime. I mean, people... here, sir, it's said that they've formed an organization, this organization has made some plans, made some lists, who will be taken into custody, who will be arrested, who will be taken from his job, who will be made such long lists, so there's no criminal enterprise. In order for a crime to take place, you have to perform acts of action, which have been thrown out. This looks like this: I'd better sit down with a friend in the coffeehouse, and I'd say we'd better rob that bank. You go in the back door, I go in the front door, we get the money from the bank and we go out. It's not. This has remained in a thought phase, in the planning stage, where the elements of crime do not exist. However, even if we accept that the actions of the Turkish Penal Code are taking place, there is a Article 36 of the Penal Code. What does Article 36 of the Turkish Penal Code say? He talks about giving up willingly, saying that if the perpetrator voluntarily renounces the actions of the crime, he cannot be punished for the attempt. Then they can't be punished for attempted assault. What could it be? It could be a crime to form an organization, that's one thing, but his punishment is different, he's guilty. One, there's this problem. The second problem is reviewing the evidence. The review of the evidence, of course, is up to the judge's discretion, but the judge can't take advantage of that discretion. Here, the court has used discretion in an arbitrary manner. There are clear signs here. He accepted them correctly without having any expert examination of them, and he made the decision upon them. One minute, the General Staff says, "I don't have the originals of these things, I don't have anything like this, as it's written in the decision." One minute, the Minister of National Defence said here: "These documents can't be written in the General Staff." Other than that, sir, what happens out there is a prisoner at the time, in 2003. The decision states that in this area of communication, in the century of communication, such things can happen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, is there any record or evidence of their involvement in the crime? So all of this has proven injustice in Turkey, and now we know why the court chief was replaced two days later when he was in charge of the trial of Sledgehammer. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0107par0024	Thank you, Mr. Specten. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0108par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, really, what is it that you want to do with this law? When asked, how do I dissolve 16,500 cases, and how do I negotiate this with the European Court of Human Rights, the Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers? Now, here, it's called the Law Against Court Decisions, about the length of Judgement. Now, in a month's time, there will be administrative commissions under this clause, good. The applications are coming in. Where's it coming from? From the European Court. How will applications from the European Court get back here? When this law returns from the Mansion, will it come from there to here? No, he comes with a decision. So, according to Article 90, is the European Convention on Human Rights a nonnational contract? Yeah. Is this contract approved in this House? Confirmed. Is it confirmed? It is, it is, it's stored and it's in effect. The court has ruled on these 16,000 cases and will return to Turkey. There are 47 members of the Council of Europe, all sides of this judiciary and state applications. Now, I ask you, in a case where a third party, according to Article 36, is involved in a state, how are you going to bring the case of a foreign applicants against Turkey to Turkey? So, now, this is... the Constitution can't be changed, the contract can't be changed, the law can't be decided by the European Court of Human Rights; the problem is here, we want to tell you about it. They have a long time to judge, you say. Now, you set up the commission in a month, good. This commission will decide in nine months. What file? It's in any case. When's the file coming in front of you? A year and nine months later. What will the citizen do if he doesn't like the commission's decision? He's gonna go to administrative court. Every lawyer knows how many years the administration court has decided. So a lawsuit that goes to administrative court doesn't end for six or seven years. So the question comes to mind whether you want to or not is this your 2023 target in court? This shouldn't happen, this is the wrong target. Look, in the commission, if you can solve all cases that are subject to cadastress cases, property lawsuits, property cases, property cases, if you can solve them, then, yes, let's give you our support, you can't lock up the rights to individual freedom, personal rights, and personal rights that are related to individual rights. Now, you've already made a trial, you've had no results; the citizen has gone and applied to the European Court. I'm going to ask you one more thing, so I'm really curious, I'm going to ask all of my fellow lawmakers. Parliament has issued the Turkish Penal Code, the basic law. Then what did he take off? He passed the Penal Code. What was it? It was 2005. How many now? It's 2013. How many years has it been? Eight. Mr. Secretary, what in God's name happened to these litigation courts? There's a court of law that hasn't worked in eight years, it hasn't been set up. He's been appointed by district courts, the authorities have been established, but they don't have a court of law. Now, will you shorten the trial once you've established a court of law? Now, we need to see the truth of Turkey. Citizen gets caught by the police, crosses the police station, gets in front of the prosecutor. He's going to the arrest judge in front of the prosecutor. After the arrest judge, his file is in preparation. The pending case is being filed two years later, three years later -- this particular case to the special competent courts -- and there are thousands of defendants who have been arrested for three years without being brought to trial. For example, in some ACK cases, there is no trial for defence in the main language. It's not because the defense has been restricted in another case. I mean, there's definitely something wrong with the extraordinary courts. These malfunctions are fixed with one thing: you're going to shut them down, folks. There's only one solution. There is no solution but to close extraordinary trials, extraordinary trials. These courts will come to you, and they will find you in the past, and they have dealt with you, and they have judged you, and they have tried to shut down your party. The same goes for all parties. Now, we want to make it clear from here that the citizen -- in the 17th article of the contract -- will say to the government, "You cannot abuse rights as a high contractor." He will question it, and you will abuse it with this law." So you're going to create a new problem. You won't be able to prevent the third party's interference. When the German government is involved in a German citizen's case, you will not be able to bring him to your administrative commission. Let him go, there's a sentence in Article 53 -- it's a very clear sentence -- called the protection of known human rights. Then Turkey accepted the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, as two contracts, the economic, social contract, and there is a fair trial. Now, these are both in the regional contract and in the international contract. Now, when this law comes out, will the wiretap end, will the secret witness end, will the secret evidence end, will the bugs go away? We ask very clearly: Will this biased, political, ideological and hostile law continue to be crueler to political prisoners than the coup of September 12th? Yeah, well, in a country, there are criteria for social peace, democratization. If you don't treat your citizen fairly, you won't be able to maintain social peace. There are two ways to do this, and for justice, money and power are necessary. If that's your budget, the police, the police, the gendarmes, the commandership, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the TSK, the Ministry of National Defense, has 10 times your budget. They have the gun, they have the money, why should they think of you as justice? So really, whoever has the money, whoever has the power, says, "I'll do the justice." Then this has to be moved. So there's only one way to get the route in this country: you'll set up the Justice Ministry budget, you'll transfer a large portion of the money you've spent on security, you'll transfer it to the Justice Department; you'll form the Justice Department's arm, you'll take his independent arm, you'll take the penal execution institution from the gendarmes, you'll no longer have the jobs to bring it into court, but you'll raise a trained, academic, Justice Academy graduate, a new generation of officers; you'll raise the price, the economy, the housing, the possibility, the security. You, with this staff, can better bring justice to justice. In current conditions, in these extraordinary courts, there is no justice in type F prisons; there is persecution, there is isolation, there is isolation. Every day there are dozens of letters to his congressman about the conditions there. If we think about the solution to these things, we'll get results. If he doesn't tire out on the solution, the heads will continue on the same periodically every day; there will be fires in Şanlıurfa Prison, one day in another prison, and now letters of complaints from İzmir Şakran Prison. For these to be resolved, we need to follow a proper strategy. ▪ Portal solutions, retail solutions, are not the solution. We call it the wrong law. With all due respect...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0109par0038	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0110par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is no discussion even in parliament on a case being held under Article 138, Article (3) of our Constitution. This law, which is being seen, is against our Constitution of 138/3. Let's say 1. Second: According to the European Convention on Human Rights, what does the right to judge at a reasonable time mean? Is there a proper trial in Turkey at this time? My third question: we visited Aliya Şakran Prison last week. Incompatible with human dignity, there is a search for prisoners and prisoners, and in the same way, the food provided is inferior. Prisoners and prisoners who are far away from the prison are facing transport, their connections to the outside world are being cut off. Isn't that a violation of human rights? Do you intend to end this practice? Last question: you've got a right to talk. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Does this sentence apply? This is your right to chat. It's called cheating against the law. Are you going to take any precautions with him? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0111par0049	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0112par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the prison is stuck in the middle of the city in Iğdir, where the prisoners are serving their sentences in extremely poor conditions, and the conditions of life are very bad because the prison is old. Do you intend to move the prison to a better and more suitable part of the city? I believe there's an allocation of land involved, but there's no attempt. I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0111par0052	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0113par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we've heard from you that both you and your predecessor, Mr. Minister of Justice Mehmet Ali Şahin Bey, had a decision to establish a tax court and administrative court in Kütahya, but that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors needed some time to open it. Now, given the closed courts, given that many of our people have not been able to go to Eskişehir, will you have a service or work on opening these courts to Kütahya as soon as possible? Secondly, how many people are still on the run for violation of their commitment? Do you have any interest in a criminal fine for violating this commitment? Will you be working to abolish this practice, which violates the European Court of Human Rights decisions and the Constitution? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0114par0059	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Akgun...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0115par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, during our government, you have acquired modern courthouse buildings all over our country. You saved the courthouses, so to speak, from apartments and isolated corners. You know that Karaman County needs a court of law. I've learned from you that in 2013 we will build our new courthouse building. On behalf of the Karaman people, I thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0114par0063	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0116par0065	Mr. Secretary, there are two types of prisoners in prisons -- one, those who lie in prisons by the way of the court, and one, paid employees -- execution guards. The guards of the execution say that the police have an interior minister, the gendarme has a police commander, we have no owners. The shirt the death guard is wearing is from the sheets, the pants they wear are the lowest-grade pants. Now, when he retires, his weapons are taken away, and unfortunately, no rights are granted. The wardens in prisons don't want to retire, their salary drops by a third. Are you planning on taking care of the death guard? You promised me in your budget speech that they'd get their rights fixed in 2013. Will you make an effort in this 2013? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0117par0069	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0118par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you again about the bill. Now, as of September 23rd, those already applying to the ECHR will apply, but will they be able to appeal to the Constitutional Court after 23 September, those who claim to be in violations of the rights stemming from long trials? Will the right of individual application apply for them there? So we need a final decision. How will long trials overcome the established decision-making barrier? I'd like to ask you that. And you just said that while Mevlüt Aslanoglu was interviewing, there's nothing we can do about the arrests. We're the executive body. Law and execution cannot give instructions due to the independence of the courts. But I remind you that for Hakan Fidan, you know, a law of protection has been passed in a week. So, Hilmioğlu the Conqueror, Mehmet Haberal, Mustafa Balbay, do we have to change the names of these friends to be called Hakakan Fidan?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0119par0074	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0120par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the question of Mr. Tanal. You made a determination on the Constitution of Article 138, but we couldn't understand the question here, and my friends couldn't write it down either. I'll leave that for later. Mr. Tanal, there's been a long-term complaint in Turkey that the trials are long, but with measures taken by Turkey in recent years -- Mr. Şandir referred to this earlier -- there's a reduction in trial times in certain courts, there's an extension of time in certain courts. I'm going to give you examples of these: The trial period in the commercial courts of Asliye was 434 days in 2002, and in 2011 it was 323 days. 111 days of prosecution in 2002, 105 days in 2011. The special authority was 364 days in court, averaged 325 days as of 2011. The average trial period of 557 days in juvenile criminal courts has been reduced to 557 days in 306 days at the end of 2011. Again, the average trial period for 347 days in severe criminal courts has been reduced to 297 days by the end of 2011. The average trial period for 427 days in criminal courts is down to 358 days. In the criminal courts, 147 days have been reduced to 99 days. However, there are increasing trial periods; peace sentences courts are these, and cadastro courts are those. Of course, when we investigate the reasons for these things, cadastro... in Turkey, right now, there's nowhere left out of the 25-30 villages. As this 25-30 village is completed, all of Turkey's kadastral operations will be completed at the end. There's been an increase in conflicts from here, since there have been numerous cadastro services in the ten-year period. Other, generally speaking, there are conflicts in Turkey, in trade, in exports, in national revenues, in the rise in trade relations, there are reflections. However, new measures are being developed to prevent them, too. In that sense, the European Court of Human Rights considers the trial separately for each type of trial at a reasonable time, so one year, two years, three years, it does not agree to a fix. The number of sides of the case, sir, is whether the issue of the trial is biased, sir, and the content of the case is the factor in determining the reasonable time, but from the long trials that we expect to have Turkey in the EIHM, about 3,000 to 3,500, the trustee applications are being used in two different ways: those that have been made so far will be exhausted through the compensation commission, and the following complaints will be met by individual application to the Constitutional Court. I'll try to get him into more detail in a little while. Your question about Şakran Prison: just this week our Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights visited Shakran Prison. As in other prisons, control mechanisms operate. We've been monitoring their reports very carefully. If so, we're trying to resupply them. However, our Shakran Correctional Institution has now become one of Turkey's newest, most modern and affordable prisons. The recommendations of our Human Rights Commission will be met carefully if the implementations fail. Mr. Oğan, regarding Iğdır Prison: The 2013 Investment Programme exists and is now in the project phase. We've had a lot of difficulty with the land allocation.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0121par0082	It was on the 7th floor, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0120par0083	But hopefully we're trying to solve this problem by taking a distance in 2013.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0122par0084	Time's up, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0120par0085	The rest of the answers, Mr. Light, are out of time, so let me make it known in writing.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0123par0086	We'll ask you again in a little while, then you'll answer.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0122par0087	Thank you. There are two motions on the temporary item one, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's a temporary one for the current bill 342 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Malik Ecder Özdemir Mustafa Moroğlu Birgül Ayman Güler "Current Article 1- (1) Commissioners are elected and appointed within 15 days of the release of this Law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Interim Article 1 of the current bill 342 rows. Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Estate Onetane Yes, does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0124par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0122par0104	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0125par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0126par0106	Have him read the reason.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0122par0107	Motive... The UN Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights and other contracts, which we are part of under Article 90 of the Constitution, was intended to implement in internal law, to eliminate the victims born in compliance, to punish the responsible. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's a temporary one for the current bill 342 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends "Current Article 1- (1) Commissioners are elected and appointed within 15 days of the release of this Law." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0127par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0122par0118	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0128par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0122par0120	Mr. Tezcan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0129par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the bill we've been talking about, the problems stemming from investigations and prosecutions that haven't been concluded in a reasonable amount of time, are a bill that is said to be designed to deal with injustices. There was a need to make an arrangement, and as part of the agenda of the European Court of Human Rights has come up with a bill on how to deal with the injustices that have been dealt with due to the fact that the cases have not been completed in a reasonable time. Dear friends, since long, Turkey has become a country with many victims who have been wronged by cases or investigations that have not been concluded in a reasonable amount of time. Look, there are defendants who have been arrested for five years, six years, arrested, tried, wronged. Now, in the last two days, we've come across something interesting. On the one hand, speaking of injustices in cases that were not over in a reasonable period of time in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we saw, on the other hand, a dramatic example of the injustices of a court in the form of liquidation as a result of the fabricated, fictional and political cases carried out in this framework. The court's ruling on the case known in public as the Ballioz case has been announced. Dear friends, see what the court has to say on the grounds? In the basis of the ruling of this case, the court states that the alleged evidence is not actually false because it has been established that there are originals in the Chief of Staff. The court states that I decided on the basis of these CDs when I made the decision. But these CDs are not as false as they claim, but they are real. The Chief of Staff made a statement right after him, saying: "There is no such thing, there is no such thing. We wrote to the court earlier. In the article we wrote, we said: "This original document, we don't have such a plan." So the court decided on false grounds in a case set up with false evidence, carried out with false evidence, and completed with false evidence. Dear friends, as the third judicial package was discussed, our throats exploded, we tried to explain that these courts, the courts in the process of liquidation, specifically saying to them to continue their duties, make it clear that the task given to these courts is a duty to deliver the decision that had been written in advance. Let's get these courts out of the way. We all see where we came from together. At the point that came today, when we were trying to avoid trials in the European Court of Human Rights, due to the lack of reasonable time, in Turkey, we had to arrest the military commanders, military commanders, intellectuals, writers, for three years, four years, five years in court, and now for the court's reasons. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot dismiss that responsibility. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not have the right to say: "This is the issue of independence of the judiciary, we can't intervene in it." If Hakan establishes a law in a hurry to save Fidan, in the middle of the night, then stop to such injustice. It is the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0130par0131	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 1 is accepted. MADDE 10 - (1) This Law; A) A month after the release of the 5th article, B) In the date of its release of other substances, It'll take effect. In the name of the Republican People's Party Group, Congressman Turgut Dibek. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0131par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we've reached the final two articles of the bill, meaning walking and walking. In fact, a lot of our friends on the stand told us here what the bill was intended for, because there's also the previous, early part. You know the part of the 7th article, we met in December, the bill was divided. I'd like to make a summary of this article. It's actually a technical law. Maybe it's a little hard to understand, but with this law that's going to be adopted a little bit later, we've actually seen what we have in Turkey, especially in Turkey, and especially in Turkey, where justice and justice are in Turkey. Look, I gave you the numbers when we were talking here on the stand earlier. Mr. Secretary has to give those figures to the Commission, and he has nothing to do with it, so what should he do? So I've mentioned in my last speech that in numbers, in different issues, in economic matters, in particular in economic matters, in the current public in Turkey, in business volumes, in terms of exports, in terms of growth, you can play on them, you can play on them, you can play on them like you want, you can flip them. But here the king is naked, so there's nothing to do here. The European Court of Human Rights put the figures in front of us. There are 47 countries in favor of this contract. Russia the 1st. 30,000 files are currently in Russia's European Court of Human Rights, for violation. There are 30,000 files for citizens, Russian citizens there; we come from behind, there are 17,000 files. Now, it is, but we have 17,000 files against Russia -- we're number one in violation decisions. So, when we look at the ratio, despite 30,000 to 17,000, Turkey is ranked number one in violation decisions from the European Court of Human Rights. We have a record like this. Now, these are the numbers. Why is this bill here? What are we going to solve with this bill? In fact, the ones that are going to be solved may be mosquitoes, because the system, the swamp -- so to speak -- is producing mosquitoes in Turkey. When people go to justice, when they go to trial, they don't get their rights, they crawl in courts for many years. That's what movies are all about. There are films that have been repeated from time to time, and you're watching them, and there are many beautiful films that are played by Kemal Sunal, and by the deceased, and by other artists; there are cases that start with children or start with fathers and go all the way back to grandpa and go on for many years. What do citizens do when they don't get their rights? The last way, they're going to the European Court of Human Rights whether they want to or not, because we sided with an international agreement, and we accepted the powers there. Dear friends, the European Court of Human Rights condemns Turkey for these cases. We now have about 17,000 files, about 3,500, covering the issue of this bill as a package, covering long trials. There's about 3,500 files piled up there. The European Court of Human Rights says to Turkey: "Look, I don't have to deal with this. There's no mechanism in your internal law to solve this problem. There is also a Article 13 of the contract -- according to this clause of the European Convention on Human Rights -- I give you a period of time -- given us a period of time -- take this 3,500 files -- which is this package file from before me. I've looked at one. Here, there's a file that's been mentioned a lot, the Ummhan Kaplan file, you know. I finished it as a precedent, and according to this, build a solution to this 3,500 files in your own internal mechanism. That's what the bill is for, dear friends. Now, the European Court of Human Rights doesn't say to solve this 3,500 cases, so unseal this package, and then, sir, take it off your agenda; let them appeal to me again about these trials about similar, long trials, which people can't get their rights from. For some reason, the Ministry or the government has prepared such a bill. So that's how they perceived it. Because, you know, during the last referendum, a process of individual application to the Constitutional Court began, so, starting from September 23, 2012, our citizens can apply. They're based on it, and they're saying that if there are any more problems in Turkey, it's going to go to the Supreme Court, so let's solve these files from the European Court of Human Rights, which is by September 23rd, and melt them down. A commission is being set up. Our friends have pointed out, and I've told you before, this commission is not the answer. Let's just say this commission will create new violations. I mean, can you imagine, dear friends, that in Turkey, cases go on for thirty years and forty years. The citizen, however, has failed to get the right, has been decided, has not been executed, has not been carried out by the order of the decision, he is going to the European Court of Human Rights. I have been victimized, I have not earned my rights, justice has not been granted. He says, he is suing a case. In his application, in his case, I asked Mr. Minister, who is the defendant? I said, "Who is the defendant?" He's pointing out our state, our ministry of the Republic of Turkey, the Department of Justice as the defendant. The institution, which is the defendant in that case, is coming now, the ministry says, I will set up a commission, I will set it up. The defendant of that case, the defendant of the European Court of Human Rights! I appoint four members of the commission from the central and rural community, one from the Ministry of Finance -- that will solve the financial part of the business, the financial part. - We've set up a commission of five. He says, "This commission is an administrative commission." He says, "Mr. Secretary." I mean, I don't understand that either. What kind of administrative commission? Dear friends, this commission will receive files, there's a court file, so we have friends who are lawyers here, especially not thirty-forty-year-old files like these, so they're like these, they're piled up, they're hard to carry. This commission is going to get that file, why it's extended, who's got the flaw, why this case is so late, he's going to look at it, so eventually he's got a lot of jobs. Now, this commission's mission... so it's a right, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right, it's going to do an administrative procedure here when we figure out the grounds for the lengthy of the case, so when we look at this commission? It's hard to imagine that this commission is the administrative commission, but there's a situation like this, dear friends. Look, any proposal we made regarding this bill, any reason for it, unfortunately, has not been taken into account. So, Mr. Secretary, based on an assumption, our Constitutional Court needs to be exhausted by internal law in Article 148 of the Constitution. It may not be considered, or, in fact, the European Court of Human Rights, you know, during the long term of imprisonment. So if there's no way to do that in civil law, I'll look at applications for long arrests. The European Court of Human Rights says. The Constitutional Court, with a precedent, in these individual applications, about civil law, before the trial is over, think about it: a trial that lasted 30 years, has not yet ended, has not gone to the Supreme Court, has not been finalized or finalized in the administrative court; there is a debate on whether the State will look at it or not; the Constitutional Court will not look at it. Mr. Secretary says: "Here, the Constitutional Court and I have consulted as healers." Like the European Court of Human Rights, they can evaluate these applications. There is such an assumption. We say that this commission should be permanent, drain the swamp, so it shouldn't be based on 23/9/2012, it should be a permanent mission. We say the next violations, dear friends, should be on the agenda of this commission, but the government, Mr. Secretary, unfortunately they have not considered our opinion. Some of our friends have just announced Mr. Tezcan. Look, Turkey has another problem, dear friends. Cases, on the one hand, last 30 years, 40 years, people don't get their rights, but there are two cases on the agenda of Turkey, which is very interesting, one -- you know, the last few days -- the sledgehammer case, a multi-conceived case. A case like that, of course, can be concluded in a matter of time, which is debatable, but the court ruled on it; it condemned almost all of the defendants, you know, last week, and it's being published and debated. A case like that! Now, on the one hand, the cases are long, and on the other hand, in a case where hundreds of defendants, 300-400 defendants are being tried, people are not being judged fairly, our demands are not being considered. Many experts have thought that the digital data is false, digital data has been accessed by the court, begging the court to examine the expert. The court says: "No, I don't do the coroner's examination." And he stated why he didn't do it, because he did not do it again, because there is no court, and that court has served a duty. Here are the originals of digital data, including the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He says, "I don't have the Chief of Staff." Yeah, that's a decision, that's a court of law, fellas. I mean, what will the Supreme Court do, what will it decide? Mr. Secretary, the Secretary of Defense has a different opinion on the year 2003-2007 of digital data. The court says: "No, it won't be." Look, it may be a disgrace to Turkey, but it's too soon now, but when it goes to the Supreme Court, when it comes, I'm very curious. It's the same case in the Ergenekon case; the court prepared itself for that case to end in December. Look, the case is going on as if it's started again. I mean, would that be a judgment, dear friends? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it over? All right, I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0132par0159	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Moving on to QA...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0161	Mr. President, I'd like a word on my own behalf.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0134par0162	We have a request for the person, sir. There must have been a mistake. We had demands for the individuals.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0132par0163	Sir?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0164	No, not like this. Look, Mr. President, I've just been waiting on the item, and I've looked at it, and they've come to you, and the members of the group, they've given up on you, they've given up on you. I'd like to speak for myself now. The one you're playing here.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0134par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0166	You came here yesterday, I've been here thirty years.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0134par0167	I'm not dealing with him, sir. I'm telling you, we have demands on behalf of the individual, and I want you to decide in that direction.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0135par0168	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've moved to the question-answer section.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0169	No, you didn't, but...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0134par0170	You did, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0135par0171	I said I passed. I said, I'm going to the question-answer section.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0172	Mr. President, look, sir, you can't go into the QA section. Groups and two MPs have the right to a personal conversation on each item. Now that one group has spoken, I have the right to speak personally. You have to promise me.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0135par0173	Now, look, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0174	No, sir, you have to promise. I mean, why are you acting on AKP's orders?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0136par0175	We have a request. Besides, you said you were moving on to the question-answer process.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0176	Look, you have to promise the MPs here. Just now, here, Elitaş, pointed to you as he passed by. He said, "Ours don't speak." I'm aware of everything here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0177	Is he pointing at me? Mr. Young, please, you're welcome.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0178	Look, please, I want a promise.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0179	You're very welcome.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0180	No, you have to promise.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0181	You...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0182	Because I have a say.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0183	I decide what I have to do and what I don't have to do here. Please, just a minute...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0185	Sir, you will, but you have to run the House right.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0186	Wait a minute, Mr. Young, listen to me.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0187	You have to direct it right. I just... one more group has spoken, and if the other groups aren't talking, you have to promise me.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0188	If you'll just shut up for a minute, I'll tell you something.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0189	You have to promise.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0190	I don't have to do anything.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0191	You will!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0192	Please listen to me.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0193	Sir, this is the obligation required by the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0194	And you have to listen to me.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0195	Mr. President, I'd like to...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0196	Please, just hear me out.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0197	Look, I won't listen to you if you act on your own. But I have a say here, you give me my say.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0198	I won't listen to you either! Is such a conversation possible in the General Assembly, Mr. Young?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0199	Okay? According to the Civil Code, the groups on every substance...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0200	Mr. Young, listen to me for a minute.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0201	I'll listen to you. All right.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0202	You've been gracious! Now, you know as well as I do that in the General Assembly, the groups may not demand a word when they're running it. We do not have the right to ask questions.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0204	No, sir, no. That's right.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0205	On behalf of individuals, groups or lawmakers may also withdraw their rights here. And you know that very well.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0206	They've taken it. I want the word now.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0207	If they did, I'll go directly to the QA.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0138par0208	You can give it to me before it passes.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0133par0209	Look, I made a promise before I passed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0210	Now, please...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0138par0211	Mr. President, may I intervene?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0137par0212	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, please.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0138par0213	Now, sir, he's closed off the individuals, but he's not taking advantage. In the meantime, just as you were about to pass, Mr. Young asked for a word.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0139par0214	We don't have a statement like that.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0138par0215	But you hadn't passed it yet.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0139par0216	You passed, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0138par0217	Wait a minute, sir... let me try to find the truth. If our AKP MP friend had done this, he would have been right to stand on the stand, thank you, land, use his speech, but he gives up without using his rights, the moment he gives up, I'm going to answer to you. If Mr. Young wanted a word, you'd have to give it to him.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0139par0219	No, sir...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0138par0220	That's the way it is. That's the way it is.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0140par0221	No... we've done it before, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0222	Now, shall I tell you the truth, lawmakers? Now, if they had the right to speak, you should have been able to speak to them in groups.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0140par0224	Why should I?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0225	If you're speaking on behalf of individuals, you can ask for a say. You do this all the time.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0142par0226	They've already closed the claim. If he shuts it down and pulls it back...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0227	So if it closes or not, we don't know that.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0143par0228	Mr. President, look, the other day...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0144par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0230	Please, we don't know that.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0144par0231	Mr. President, this is abuse of rights. The lawmaker does not condemn abuse of rights, Mr. Young is right about that. So in that sense, the law does not require abuse of rights.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0233	Mr. Tanal... wait a minute... On behalf of these individuals, you've been able to exchange the rights for each other in the General Assembly for a long time -- the whole group knows that the vice presidents know that. I think you should use your right to change it with the members of the group. When you tell me they don't have a say here, I'll go straight to the question-and-answer.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0145par0235	Look, he wanted a word in the meantime, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0236	So, please, you, next...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0237	Mr. President, if I could have your attention for a moment.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0238	...in the name of the individuals in the material, on behalf of the groups...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0239	No, they don't promise next thing, they'll talk.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0240	...and you have a say in the matter of...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0241	Now, Mr. President, that's what happened in the last merger.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0242	...request normally.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0243	Look, Mr. President, when Mr. Coral Akshener was running the presidency here, we switched to those questions. When I said, I made a promise, and he promised me again.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0244	Now...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0245	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0246	You can't rule by comparing it to others. There's a rule, I followed it that way.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0247	You're breaking the rule.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0248	You...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0249	Sir, what does it say in Article 87 of the Civil Code, excuse me, 80... which means that in all of the articles, two MPs have the right to speak on each of the articles...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0250	He also has a say in the name of the group.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0251	If no one's talking, I'm talking, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0141par0252	He also has a say in the name of the groups. He says, they don't want to talk...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0147par0253	Mr. President, you've gone into question-answer.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0254	So that's it, you can't run this House according to AKP's orders! Is that a thing?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0147par0255	Mr. President, after you went into question-answer, he made a personal commitment. Please...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0256	According to AKP's directives, you run the Assembly. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0147par0257	I agree with your practice.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0258	Please, you have to give me my say.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0148par0259	I say deal with the following article and take your word for it.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0146par0260	You have to give me my say, or you can't go on!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0148par0261	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Question-answer... Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0149par0265	Mr. President, using my say-so...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0148par0266	Mr. Right, please...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0150par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. As a government, is there a law study on the removal of parliamentary immunity? Also, about the removal of immunity...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0151par0269	What kind of parliament is that to be run by order of the AKP?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0150par0270	...of lawmakers with documents...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0152par0271	I beg you very much, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0151par0272	No, you don't have to ask! You're going to run this coven right!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0150par0273	...the demands of judgment...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0152par0274	Please take your seats, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0150par0275	Mr. President, it's not understood, let me rephrase.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0153par0277	Elitaş just said, "Don't promise anyone." I saw it from here.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0152par0278	Mr. Young, I beg you very much...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0153par0279	I mean, if the opposition vice president interrupts the opposition party like that, who do we get our word from, dear?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0152par0280	Mr. Tanal, come in. I'll give you my word later, Mr. Right, please enter the system.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0154par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many of our citizens have ever filed a criminal complaint against the state's attorney general? Two: How many people have been charged with complaints? How many of our citizens have been convicted? How many of our citizens have been acquitted? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0155par0286	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Irony... There's no Mr. Irony. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0156par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the court staff's service vehicles, you know, were recently removed. After removing these service vehicles, you have previously removed transport assistance, especially in large cities, to ensure the access of court staff to the courthouse. We're getting a lot of complaints from the court staff about this. Do you intend to restore this practice? Do you intend to address the victimology of the court's staff in this matter? In particular, court officials in major cities are very victimized. Do you intend to give up this practice? The court's staff are waiting for you to make a serious decision on this matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0157par0293	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0158par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to know from the Minister if there's any law study as a government regarding the removal of the immunity of the legislature? Second: Is there also a law study on the adoption of the appeals of lawmakers with a file on the removal of their immunity? My third question is: in the province of Tokat, some of the prisons and courts are closed, some of the districts are said to have worked. I'd like to get some information on the slap in that direction. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0159par0300	Thank you, Mr. Right. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0160par0302	Minister, in addition to my earlier questions, is there any change in your decision to close the closed prison in the district of Simav, Kütahya Province?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0161par0303	Simav, did you say?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0160par0304	You had a statement earlier regarding the closure of Simav Prison that it would be closed in 2013. Instead, how do you feel about preventing the victim? Second: You have closed the prison and Domanic courts, where the victims have reached the extreme stage of the judiciary. How do you propose to resolve this? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0162par0307	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0163par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the province of Tekirdağ has suffered a serious flood in October. One of the most serious victims of this flood occurred at the Circeçeköy Courthouse. Due to lack of funding, the government has flooded the courthouse, which serves below the building, where 6,000 files have turned into dough. Courthouse operations have stopped, court hearings cannot be held. However, the setbacks here have been tried to remove the files from the laundry and the drying operation. As your ministry, will you have an initiative to address this ordeal at the courthouse in Çerkeköy? Plus, do you think you can spare a source or staff on this?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0164par0312	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0165par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. They asked, "Is there a law study against the removal of the parliamentary immunity of the People's People?" Right now, as is known, parliamentary immunity is an issue in our Constitution. There's a text in the Constitutional Compromise Commission that groups agree on or try to reach. I think we should wait for that study to come to an end. Again immunity... do you have any work on the situation of lawmakers with thesis if they want to be tried? ▪ In fact, legislation does not prevent this, but the Parliamentary Commission and the General Assembly can pave the way for this. This question is now the subject of debates in front of the Compromise Commission. So I think we should wait for the outcome. As for the prisons in Tokat, and districts: We have a decision to close 195 prisons now in Turkey. However, this 195 prison will be closed under a calendar by the end of 2017. Instead of closed prisons, social donut areas and minimum standards will be closed in parallel with the construction of campuses that will meet international criteria, meet human standards. From that point of view, I can only answer that in writing, based on the records of which calendar your county prisons are scheduled to be closed. Mr. Tanal has submitted questions about how many citizens the Prime Minister has filed charges against, how many have been prosecuted, how many have been convicted, how many have been acquitted. I'll give you a written answer. Let's go over our records on this, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Bayraktutan said the service vehicles of the Adliye personnel were removed. We don't actually have a common service tool app, but we're giving out transport tickets for the staff. Our application to provide this transport ticket has been criticised in Court audits, and if this is not removed, it is mandatory to apply for this measure on reports that it will be embezzled to the practitioners, and there is no arbitrary application involved. Mr. Light's question about the closure of Kütahya Simav Prison is parallel to the question of Mr. Right. Let's take a look in that calendar and let you know. In addition, you had a question from the previous round, "Will there be an administrative and tax court in Kütahya?" If it meets these limits, of course it will. Gene, we need to look at her, look at our records, see how many files she's going to the Eskişehir court, look at her limit.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0166par0322	It was founded five years ago, Mr. Secretary. It's not open, so HSYK has a decision to make, but...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0165par0323	Again, he expressed whether we had a study due to some of the practices in action in the previous round.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0166par0324	Violation of commitment, removal of charges... DO we have any interest in violations of the commitment? I think I've answered that many times. There is no study at this time, Mr. Light, against the removal of alleged violations. Other than that, our Tekirdağ MP, Mr. Bridgellu, said that the Courthouse of Çerkezköy was flooded. This was not just a court-martialed disaster, but many units in the region suffered from it. And when we find an alternative way for the files to be hung from the wire, we can discuss it together, but at the point of improving the conditions of our Circeköy Courthouse and making a proper courthouse for it, the work has taken a distance. A plot of land has been earmarked for this; a project is being done. As soon as possible, we're scheduled to tender and open a courthouse worthy of Circeçeköy.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0167par0327	Half the building, Mr. Secretary, you're wrong. It's already half the building. The bidding's over.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0168par0328	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0167par0329	You've mistaken him for Choro, Minister, with Chori.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0169par0330	Mr. Cloud has a question, let's take it.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0170par0331	Minister, do you have any work on improving the rights of execution guards? And I'd appreciate it if you could give me a heads-up on when the internships will be recruited. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0171par0334	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0172par0335	In connection with the criminal execution staff, there may be some talks with the Finance Ministry on other matters, but if it happens, there may be some changes in the commission and the General Assembly phases, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0171par0336	Thank you. There are two proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following joke to item 10 of the current bill 342 rows. Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Estate Onetane 10 (2) These provisions of the Law come into effect a month after the decision to be retributed in the ECHR cases. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th draft of the current 342 row. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose that the joke (a) be changed below. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Malik Ecder Özdemir Mustafa Moroğlu Birgül Ayman Güler Bkent Tezcan 5. Articles published 15 days after the date of publication Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0173par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0171par0356	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0174par0357	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0171par0358	Mr. Tezcan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0175par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have just told you, we are discussing a bill aimed at resolving injustices due to a reasonable period of investigation or prosecution. Unsustainable investigations, inequity investigations, prosecutions, unfortunately, recently, especially in political cases, are now at an extreme stage. Thus, the loss of rights and victims of these things have now reached a point where they will have a literature of its own. Look, the Ergenekon case has been going on for five years, 94 prisoners, and it's still going on. The sledgehammer, I just told you, it went on for three years, and now it's been sentenced, and even in its justified verdict, the court had to stand on false grounds. Now, there is an ongoing investigation: a military espionage investigation; its investigation has been under way for seven months; 320 defendants, 58 of these 320 defendants, 56 of 58 prisoners, 56 of whom are soldiers, 2 of whom are civilians and the majority of 320 defendants are soldiers. Congressmans, it's very interesting that in the past few days, our Prison Watch Commission has gone and met with these defendants. What one of the commanders said is a promise we must never forget. He says that we would have thought that we would be martyrs, but we would never have thought that we would be accused of espionage. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary just said something important in his speech, he said: "We can't interfere directly with the judiciary. If there's a hitch, we'll edit it, we'll follow that arrangement's application, and if we see that there's a glitch in the application again, we'll get back to it and we'll intervene with it. Yeah, he's right. And I'm telling Mr. Secretary, yes, Mr. Secretary, there's a glitch in the application, and despite the regulations, there's a glitch in the application. The Law on Criminal Trials on linking unfair arrests in the Third Criminal Package with detailed, concrete facts brought to prevent unprovoked arrests is not being implemented. There are political judges in the courts. One of the judges of the Ergenekon trial, which I recently attended, says to Member Judge Sami Hasiloğlu Mustafa Balbaya, a member of the Turkish National Assembly, "Hani, you said you wouldn't be a member of parliament." From the council, he says, "Be careful, it's on the stand." A bench judge turns to the defendant in the defendant's chair and says: "You said you wouldn't go into politics, you wouldn't become a congressman. What's it to you? None of your business! Are you in a position to ask me that? Can a judge who asks that question make a fair trial? Can a judge who asks that question apply law? Yes, Mr. Secretary, there are serious injustices to the application, there is a serious political bias, and there is an obligation to take measures against it. Look, there's a trial process that produces fake lunatics. The Prime Minister is being complained that he's being bugged. So there are forces in Turkey that can listen to the Prime Minister, and there is a judicial process in Turkey that produces false evidence and investigates and judges on false grounds based on false evidence. If there are such deep relationships, do not doubt that those who produce false evidence and listen to the Prime Minister are the same powers. Come on, let's all stand up to this. Come on, let's fight this. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must seize this forgery, with such historical responsibility. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0176par0368	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following joke to item 10 of the current bill 342 rows. Hasip Kaplan and his friends 10 (2) These provisions of the Law come into effect a month after the decision to be retributed in the ECHR cases. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0177par0376	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0176par0377	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0178par0378	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0176par0379	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0179par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, a change has been made in the Turkish Penal Code, and then in the Penal Code, you know, in 2005, and after the European Court's decisions have been finalised, the path to a retrial is being opened. Now, with this arrangement, there's a contradiction between this law and that law, we've been aiming for this conflict to be resolved. However, I'd like to draw attention to another matter. When it comes to judgment, there's a trifecta of judgment, accusation, defence, and judgment. In Article 6 of the European Convention, there is a very important rule called the equality of weapons. The right to defend is sacred, my friends. The last word in judgment is defense. Now, within this system, where the defence is so important, the defence is being eliminated by these laws; it reduces the administrative commissions to positions that anyone at the level of proxy can follow. I'm going to come from here, Mr. Attorney General, and I'm speaking to you as someone who knows a little bit about your sensitivities, your efforts, the peace, the solution, your intentions for dialogue, and your contributions. You're a lawyer, you're a lawyer; I'm a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, and we're both lawmakers; I'm an opposition MP, you're a minister. There was a meeting on Imralı Island. There are three ways to go: One goes to the staff of the Justice Department; two goes to the police department of the Ministry of Interior and one goes to the Ministry of National Defence. There's been a ban on 10 miles since 99. Prison execution officers go there, managers go there, lawyers go there. 40 lawyers who have been there have been under arrest for over a year, and 28 Martas were suspended a week ago. Now, I'm asking you, there's an interview going on here. They go as lawyers, they have power of attorney, and in that lawyer's interview, by law, there's an officer of the Attorney General's office. That report reaches you immediately, the Department of Justice. On the matter of the talks, it was said that these lawyers provided information. They were arrested. The incident of Hakan Fidan was then brought to the attention of the court and was under a law. Lawyers had special laws. But finally, there was another meeting. There have been interviews before. On behalf of the government, the MIT can go and meet, bring news. Then two of our friends from our party, Mr. Ahmet Türk, Ayla Akat Akat, they went, they spoke, they came. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, why are 40 lawyers in there, for God's sake, why are you holding 40 lawyers inside? It's going away, it's interviewing, it's getting information. Why are these lawyers in there? Is there any point to this lawyer's case? There are lawyers who have been arrested for over a year -- for having done their duty -- who once went to Imralı -- because they received power of attorney. There is no explanation for it. It has no place in the law, no place in the right mind, and has no place in the sight of God. So, with these simple excuses, private court officials are holding 40 lawyers in for organization membership, I don't know, carrying information. Now, there's an event here called 'vicdan'. The Department of Justice needs to step in for these lawyers. He needs access to the information there. It's a crime to have these lawyers locked up like this, even though there's not a single word out there that doesn't exist. This case is over, this case can't go on, this case can't go on, these lawyers can't stay under arrest. Keeping these lawyers in custody and doing other procedures is an oxymoron. This is not justice, my friends; this is not justice, and we ask the Minister of Justice to take care of it. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0180par0388	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out the provisions of this Law. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0181par0398	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the current bill. I salute you all. Dear friends, the bill we're discussing is called the Long Time of Judgement and the Bill of the Law on Compensation for the Late or Part-Employment of Court Decisions. If we look at the purpose of this law, it is about setting the basis and procedures for the settlement of certain applications to the European Court of Human Rights by paying compensation. Dear lawmakers, as you can see by your name, this bill determines the procedures and basis for compensations due to applications to the European Court of Human Rights. What, then, is the case that requires that this compensation be paid, so what is the case that requires the application? The length of the trial time and the fact that the court's verdicts were not carried out late or partially. So if the trial period hadn't been long, if there had been a reasonable period and the court decisions had not been carried out late, there would have been no such compensation, there would have been no appeal to the European Court of Human Rights; therefore the European Court of Human Rights would not have accumulated files, and the Ministry of Justice would not have drafted such a bill and brought it to this Parliament. Well, then, instead of dealing with the results, you have to deal with the reasons. If we really want to solve the problem that is under this bill, we need to solve the events that are the cause. My dear friends, in Turkey today, the main problem is that, of course, there is unemployment, hunger, poverty, poverty; I have no objection to that; but these are problems that have been going on since before; they were few, and they were few today, but the main problem today is that there is no legal security, and the fundamental problem is that today Turkey has become an ordinary form of governance; the fundamental problem is injustice, there is no justice. It's so unfair that lawlessness has climbed to the bench. The courts, whose primary duty is to carry out justice, have now become practically lawless and unjust bodies. Today, on the basis of these problems, there really is a legislature that makes law-making carelessness a rule. On the other hand, there is a judicial system that has made it a rule of law, especially not to obey the rules of law, and has referred to politics rather than law; there is a political power that sees the rule of rule of law as the rule of law, the rule of rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, and the rule of law of law, and the rule of law of law, which is separated from the understanding of the rule of law, the rule of law and the rule of law. Those are our basic problems. As long as these problems are not solved, as long as our judges and prosecutors don't understand that their historical mission is justice, their basic duty is justice, we still have a fundamental problem in this trial that judges and prosecutors who are really in charge of implementing the rule of law should continue to understand the understanding of these judges and prosecutors, and that the political government has not accepted the principle of separation of forces of some kind. If we don't solve these, we'll bring in this bill today, and we'll build up a pile of files at the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court, and we'll be looking for palliative solutions again. The important thing is to dry the swamps, not deal with mosquitoes. Today, one of the main reasons for increasing confidence in the judiciary is that the judiciary is now competing with the executive body of lawlessness. We all talk about respecting judgment. The honorable judicial decision is the judgment of every person in the judicial process as a result of the establishment of their actions and procedures in accordance with the law and the law; otherwise 1 judge, a clerk or 1 president, two members, a clerk, a court order signed by the bailiff is not a court decision to be respected in the form of a court. It is the first time that judges and prosecutors have been seen in a case for the first time in the public to justify criticism of their unjust and unlawful practices, rather than review the evidence related to that case. I hope that these events in the judiciary are in our Minister of Justice's interest, and it bothers him because he's a lawyer himself. Today, really, the biggest share of the issues in Turkey is the political understanding that is now in this judiciary, which tends to make decisions to benefit from the political institution in order to benefit from politics. It's very dangerous, my dear friends, that understanding has to be abandoned. Judges and prosecutors are really essential elements to justice. The procedure law on how to act in a judicial process is not only for the parties there, not for the defendants, not for the lawyers; the rules in the law of procedure, above all, for judges and prosecutors to be obeyed first. If the judge and prosecutors feel that they are privileged not to abide by these rules of law, then this is the kind of public opinion that we face. My dear, I am in power today. After all, I have been given the right decision in this period of power, and it cannot be decided against me. Her understanding is not right. When we really look back on our past in Turkey, the judiciary has shown a tendency towards the current government, whether it's civil power or military power. And that's the fact that the judiciary couldn't save itself without making it work, which means that it couldn't internalize itself as independent and unbiased. That's the frame of mind for the final trial. I mean, I'm telling our fellow lawyers, in which case, all of us, all of us, we've been in litigation -- judges are willing to stop their work and write a decision to respond to public criticism when they're making a rational decision. Is that even possible? So, the judge evaluates the events of a trial process, evaluates the evidence, writes whatever it is that requires him to decide. But, once we look at it, in the last case, the judge says that he received the original evidence from the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the General Staff makes a statement, and there is no such thing. Now, I'm actually asking the Attorney General why the judges and prosecutors who made this decision were still stopped on that mission. That's the job of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. There is no question that judges and prosecutors exercise jurisdiction here, but insist on not following the existing rule of law and law. Judges and prosecutors are in charge of implementing the laws imposed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The laws of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the judges and prosecutors have no right to not comply. My dear friends, we are aware that this law will not solve problems, but I wish the law to be good. I hope, and I hope, that from now on, the bill that brings temporary solutions doesn't come. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0182par0413	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0183par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're enforcing a necessary, necessary, mandatory law. Hopefully, with this law to be passed, Turkey's problem will be overcome. I think we should respect the government's expectations, its prediction as Parliament. Therefore, I wish him well, but I still want to make one request: I believe that one truth, one necessity, and another wrong must not be opened. I've stated in the interview on the previous two items, there's a result. Without questioning the reasons for this outcome, without the legal arrangement to overcome those reasons, the law that you have brought as a precaution will not be a cure. So, Mr. Secretary, with this law you're making, will it be possible for you to reduce your trial time? Dear lawmakers, will this prevent Turkey from being charged with a derogatory set of definitions in the European Court of Human Rights? I think we should have done together a success that would have been able to build a law that would have investigated the reasons for that. At that point, I want to know what the government really thinks. Secondly, the measure you brought is not correct, Mr. Secretary. So you're building a structure in civil law at the request of the European Court of Human Rights, but the building you're building is destroying our claim to be our greatest, most valuable common denominator, the democratic system, the state of law. You're trying to overcome the issues of the judiciary by building an administrative structure. Judgement -- it's its own reason; it's right, it's wrong -- can't shorten the trial. The length of his long imprisonment is becoming a form of punishment. Therefore, we are charged by the European Court of Human Rights, and we are sentenced to compensation. The structure you set up with the Ministry of Justice to get through this is enough to shorten the long trial process of the judiciary, or at work to block the compensations. Don't go to the European Court of Human Rights, let's give you compensation, let's bribe you in some sense, don't complain about us outside. That's why we're building a structure like this within the Ministry, to make amends for the error of the judiciary. Isn't his approach going to hurt the essence, the basic logic of this system, Mr. Secretary? Look, at this point, as the National Movement Party, we have also made an offer in our speech on this entire law. We said, "Come on, if an institution is forced to establish an internal law firm in this matter, let's set it up within the judiciary." Let's get this job to the DA in administrative cases, and the DA can do it. Let the Supreme Court do this in legal cases, criminal cases.Let's build a structure within the Supreme Court. If it's said that these two are not enough, it's not true. Let's do it within the Constitutional Court. You've already made the appeals of citizens to the Constitutional Court a civil law, so you've made it legal for individuals to apply to the Constitutional Court as an internal law phase before applying to the European Court of Human Rights. E, now, if the same issue is a necessity, if the European Court of Human Rights has a solution for us at this point, as a necessity, let's do it in court. A ruling based on execution is against the principle of separation of forces. You're not only interfering with the judiciary, you're interfering with the living. So, you're leaving the decision of the Council of Ministers to expand law, to expand authority, which is the authority of the law on this matter. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, the valued executives of the ruling party, and Mr. Vice Prime Minister here, I'm speaking to the legal identity: why would we open the door to a mistake that would have greater consequences when we were correcting a requirement, a wrong? If the European Court of Human Rights demands to build a structure in civil law, we need to build this structure within the balance of our current system, within its dynamics, within the judiciary. If the judiciary is incomplete and Turkey is blamed for it, you cannot do it, let it go; I will do it with a connected apartment in my system of justice. It would be against the system of separation of forces, therefore the Constitution would be against ours. It causes much greater dangers and risks in later times. I've done it. I mean, I'm older, I'm a rulemaker. So believe me, it doesn't suit a democratic understanding, mentality, maturity. Therefore, as I respect your legal identity, I invite you to reconsider, confident that this is wrong, that you respect democratic understanding. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we say that this law, which Turkey needs, which in a sense has a necessity, is your work -- in parentheses -- is a good one. It's necessary, do it, but we advise you to do it right. There are a lot of lawyers among you, and I expect to be explained if there's a mistake, if there's a contradiction in what I'm saying about this, but I don't think this administrative structure that you're going to create in the ministry to complete the lack of judgment will benefit from the amount of time that the judiciary can't shorten, the length of trial, the results of this in the Ministry of Justice, the consequences of which the European Court of Human Rights, the consequences of which have caused the punishment, and the lack of the judiciary. Because, Mr. Secretary, if the decision made by your administrative structure is not satisfied, if the citizen is not satisfied, if he is not convinced, then I have the right. What are you going to do about it? How are you going to stop him? How are you going to get the sense of justice? But, let him judge. Let the citizen's conscience judge the judgment of the sense of justice in the human conscience. If you attach this to a structure under the command of politics, under the command of the bureaucracy, I think you'll be found at home when you go to Dimyat. The cost of this will be much heavier in social nature. Do not raise a finger to a difficult mistake in the future when describing a mistake, a necessity. That's how long it's been waiting. To do the right thing, to reassess this law in accordance with our concerns, and bring it back to the General Assembly, and let us vote together, and let this law be the law of the Assembly, a law that paves the way for Turkey. By expressing these concerns and these expectations, these wishes of ours, despite everything -- in my view, Turkey does not fit with the Turkish nation -- by reminding all of you of the responsibility of making a permanent solution to this period of judgment, which I think is not appropriate -- I hope that the law will be good in order to be restored, and that it will be good for all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0184par0429	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Iconian MP Harun Rifleci. Here you go, Mr. Rifleman.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0185par0433	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the 11th article of the Law Bill, on whether the length of the Trials and the Court's Decisions should be delayed or not carried out. I salute your high council. Dear friends, there have been very important legal regulations in our country, in our time, about real justice, about fair judgment, and about speeding up the judicial process. This arrangement is one of them. Of course, I'm not a big fan of extension because I'm speaking on the executive clause, but it has to be well known that a new legal arrangement had to be made, especially in areas where Turkey had lost a serious reputation in the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights, where it had to pay this kind of compensation. Here, we've contributed as commission to the work our Justice Department has done. I hope that this law will have positive results, and I salute and honor your high council.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0186par0437	Thank you, Mr. Rifleman. On behalf of the government, Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin. Here you go, Mr. Ergin.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0187par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I have made a promise to present some information to our General Assembly regarding the generality of Bill 342. The need for this bill to make a few identifications on the purpose of its arrival has come to pass. Because when we look at the evaluations here, it's as if we're setting up a trial, and there are perceptions that we're going to make a trial, and it's being criticised because it's based on execution; it's being judged that the structure is not independent, it's not neutral. If the bill is thoroughly studied, its motive is looked at, and especially if the application patterns are looked at in other countries within the Member States of the Council of Europe, the purpose of this commission will be better understood. Long trials are not just Turkey's problem. Many countries who recognized the authority of the European Court of Human Rights had similar problems. To overcome these problems, again, Council member states have established internal legal means, setting up commissions to cover the damage caused by these lengthy trials. These commissions are certainly not going to make a judgmental assessment of the issue of conflict, they're not going to end the trials, they're not going to give a statement to the courts who are making the trial. Only those victims of these lengthy trials go to the European Court of Human Rights and say: "I am a victim. Identify my victimhood and give me compensation to compensate for my injury.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0188par0445	Let the judge do it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0187par0446	The citizen's request is from this ECHR court. In the ECHR, if there is a lengthy trial process, they decide to violate it, and Turkey tells it: "pay compensation to your municipality for this amount. Now, here's the arrangement that we've brought in: let an internal administrative commission make this determination, rather than the Strasbourg Court, because of this long trial.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0188par0448	Let the Supreme Court do it.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0187par0449	This commission is going to make this determination based on what, it's going to do it on its own? No. Will he be able to do anything? No. He'll only be able to look at the disputes -- the criteria within the law -- where the Court of Human Rights is established. What does that mean? We give to this board the authority of the board of directors, not of the Supreme Court of Human Rights judges, but of the three judges who can evaluate and decide the simple kinds of disputes over which there are undisputed verdicts. O my citizen! Yes, the Ummhan Kaplan file is the pilot file. It's a conflict from the 1970s, and it's still unresolved. And you're a victim of that. I'm giving you this sacrifice, and I'm offering you this much compensation. This commission is going to say, How will he predict this compensation? The Court of Human Rights will pay in parallel with the proceedings that have been held by the Court of Human Rights so far, and this decision will again be subject to the supervision of the administrative judiciary. What we do is not a trial. If you look, dear friends, after the case of Loizidou in Cyprus, an internal legal road was created in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and since the European Court of Human Rights accepted this commission as an effective domestic legal road, the application would not accept these applications. The ECHM has made such a principle. Again, similar commissions have been set up in the past in order to compensate for the victims of terrorist incidents in the east, southeast. All of these commissions were administrative commissions. On the contrary, four of the five members of the commission that we have established today will be members of the judge, as prosecutors, but what they will do is not a trial, but an administrative capacity. The activities of these commissions we established in the past were considered an effective domestic law by the Strasbourg courts, and unless these commissions are passed, the appeals were not approved by that court. What we've brought in today is this bill, which we're going to complete in your presence, is the work of creating a similar domestic legal path. This is our intention, by mutual agreement with our citizens, to resolve the application of Turkey in front of the Court of Human Rights, which constitutes this kind of established law. Instead of the decision made by judges in Strasbourg, Ankara is the way to make peace with our own citizens. On this occasion, our citizen will not bother searching for rights in Strasbourg for years. Turkey will not have received additional violations in Strasbourg courts, and the victims of our citizen will be more easily, cheaper, with an administrative commission to build here. Here, the victim, the violated citizen, is profitable, and meets his rights without waiting too long. The state will be profitable, prevent violations against you, but the ECHR is profitable, the number of files in front of it will be reduced. We didn't look at this bill, we didn't present it this way, precious lawmakers: when this bill passes, problems from long trials will be eliminated in Turkey. We have no claim. It's just a way to eliminate results, a method, but as a matter of fact, our measures to prevent long trials in Turkey are much more comprehensive and are being carried out step by step. I have stated that we have carried out 70 percent of the Strategy for Judiciary Reform in three years. Dear lawmakers, in addition to him, three proposals to speed up the judiciary have been passed in this Parliament. Again, decisions made by increasing both the number of members and the number of apartments have increased in the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court, which has been the biggest waste of time in the length of the trials, and in 2011-2012 alone, the Supreme Court approved about a third of its own workload within a year. Hopefully, one year in law offices, one and a half in prison, two years out of stock, the Supreme Court starts to work in the mail. This is a very important result from our point of view, and we're going to a point that Turkey couldn't even imagine two years ago. Again, with the right to an individual application to the Constitutional Court, our citizens will be able to seek their rights in the Constitutional Court as our own human rights court, before further access to the Strasbourg Court. This will filter and filter the passage to Strasbourg courts to a certain extent. Other than that, in addition to the strengthening of the high judiciary and the acceleration of the judiciary, we will have taken significant distances with this bill, which we will legalise today -- God willing, if accepted by your votes -- with the approval of our President. What was important was the taking of measures to reduce the burden of work that came to the judiciary, and we took important measures in this Parliament with you. One was the Charter of the Arbitration Law. It's legal. From June 2013, the disputes could be taken off the agenda of the courts by intermediaries, even if they went to court or went to court. This is one of the steps in which alternative discrepancies effectively enter the Turkish legal system. We strive to pursue additional measures, so that reconciliation can be implemented more easily in punishment. In addition, we've brought the Public Control Agency to filter out administrative discrepancies, we've edited them in our Constitution, we've passed the law, we've made their choice. Hopefully, as soon as he completes his organization and starts applying, an alternative conflict solution will be restored to life, and our citizens' rights-seeking channels will be diversified. In this framework, the esteemed lawmakers, Turkey, for the first time in its history, have appointed judicial advisors to the centers where its citizens live a lot abroad and where our institutional interests will be protected. Starting in September 2012, at the European Council, in our permanent diplomatic mission there, in Brussels, in London, in Berlin, in Paris, in Washington, in Washington, in our foreign diplomatic missions, our well-versed judges and prosecutors began their mission to protect the interests of Turkey, and to perform a three-month term of duty. We have taken important steps to protect the interests of Turkey and the interests of our citizens. From now on, hopefully, there'll be more of this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the bill would be a blessing...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0189par0460	By rotting in prison for five years, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0187par0461	I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0189par0463	It's in the best interest of the citizens by rotting in prison for five years.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0190par0464	Thank you, Mr. Ergin. Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0468	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I present to you the final speaker of the final clause of the current bill. There were a few issues in the previous talks, and I'd like to briefly mention them. Courts for false reasons... in the life of justice, in the life of the law... the evidence may be false, but I've never heard a false motive, and I never understood where it came from.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0192par0470	That's a lame excuse.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0193par0471	You learn, you learn!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0472	There was a complaint that the judicial packages were not implemented. Yes, as a legislature, let the judicial package work better with good intentions. We have been able to remove it in terms of law enforcement, but the practitioners are misusing it, perhaps missing it. A court may be making the wrong decision, it may be that it's a misjudgment that we've passed here...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0193par0473	Ask him how he's doing.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0474	...but the jurisdiction is not the law, but the jurisdiction of the judiciary is the judiciary again.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0194par0475	The head of HSYK is Minister of Justice, but don't you know, Mr. Special? The head of HSYK is Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0476	We, as legislation, have no obligation to control the judiciary. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We can change the subject, we can change the provisions, we can make a legal arrangement here, but at the point of implementation of a law that we've passed, the judiciary will also supervise its implementation within itself. Look, here we are doing evaluations on the ongoing cases, both the sledgehammer and the judges, the prosecutors in charge, as far as the evidence is concerned. What does the third joke of Article 138 of the Constitution say?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0194par0478	The case in question means. It's decided, it's over, the sledgehammer case is over.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0479	Let me read it, and let's take another look together, friends, and let's not make these mistakes together. Look: A case that has been seen cannot be asked about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, it cannot be negotiated or made into any statement. Please, we have to look at the dignity of the men in Turkey as legislation.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0195par0480	We've instructed the Prime Minister to judge. He says it's necessary to...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0196par0481	What does the Prime Minister say? What does the Prime Minister say about the separation of forces?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0482	I'm saying that we have to be the first to take care of the trial here -- the law, the administration, and the judiciary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0197par0483	Then what are the parliamentary research commissions? He's doing a parliamentary investigation into the pending case!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0191par0484	I wish you all the best, sir, in the sense that the law should be restored to our country, to our nation, to these victims.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0197par0486	There's a February 28th case, a congressional investigation. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0198par0487	Thank you, Mr. Special. Moving on to QA. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0199par0490	I don't, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0198par0491	I can see it here, but there's nothing. Whatever side you're on, I'll promise you later. Until we set up the system... Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0200par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, Mr. Secretary, there are three classifications of police stations in Turkey. You'll appreciate the A-classification, B-classification, C-classification. This is a rating based on the population, but these outposts in Turkey are not fit for classification, the buildings are not suitable. In addition, in our examination of the police station in İzmir, we were able to determine with our eyes that there were hidden cameras in some of the deposition rooms behind the scene of the suspects' testimony. I was wondering if you'd be interested in a measure, a study? And there are some blind spots in the outposts in terms of the end of torture, torture and abuse. What measures will you take to repair these blind spots? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0201par0497	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0202par0499	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I believe you have confused the counties in the answer to my question. I asked about the Circeçeköy Courthouse, but you told me about the situation with the Coroner Courthouse. I'd like to remind you once again, do you have any precautions regarding the situation of the Circeçeköy Courthouse, especially after the flood and the obstruction of the court services? On this occasion, I'll ask again the Coroner Courthouse, which has turned into a snake story: You know, twice the project has been cancelled, hundreds of thousands of dollars have been spent, but not even a nail has been struck on the court at this time. When do you plan to complete the courthouse? Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0203par0503	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, Burdur Courthouse is currently incapable of serving. The location of the new courthouse has been reserved, its plan, its project is done, but the tender has not been submitted. Since the economy is good and the central bank vault is full, why don't you put Burdur Courthouse building up and start it? Would you consider giving me a date for that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0204par0506	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0205par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I just got a call from a prison while I was sitting here. You know -- he's passed through the commission, and he's on the agenda of the House -- he's had a six-month stay in the open prison, and we've already removed him from this bill, which is what we call defense in this language. The question is, citizens -- I mean, under a year in prison -- and there are a lot of convicts who are going to benefit from it -- are asking: "When will this law come out? Why don't you bring this bill to Parliament, which has passed through the commission, but has come to the agenda of the House? I wonder if these recent talks with the Imran are the result of the delay of this law, the delay of the bill. If you can clarify that... people are following us.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0204par0510	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Young, please, your microphone is open.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0206par0512	No, actually, I don't want to question Sadullah Ergin, because I keep telling you that you're the kind of person who brings the justice department into this situation, makes justice so unsavory, so arbitrary. His arbitrary practices in the Lighthouse case are, after which, a person who is well aware of his interference with the courts. So I'm not asking questions because I don't see a minister here who's capable of asking questions.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0207par0513	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0208par0514	You should condemn that attitude, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0206par0515	If you're going to tell me, tell him.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0209par0516	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0210par0517	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are trying to respond to our MPs who are truly worthy to respond. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) So there's no need to feel sorry for him.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0211par0519	If I'd been on the stand, I'd have told you what was necessary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0210par0520	Mr. Tanal here has asked that the stations be classified, Mr. Tanal has stated that they have found hidden camera systems in the jails of these outposts, that he has identified them with the Parliamentary Commission. Dear lawmakers, there's a bill that's been transferred to Parliament on all of this, and we have a design for the establishment of an independent law enforcement commission. Hopefully, when this bill is passed, such claims will be further investigated. However, such claims have been reduced to a minimum by the government's policies since 2002, under the framework of zero tolerances against torture, and Turkey is the head of countries that have achieved success both inside and internationally. I'm not saying this isn't individual practice. I'm afraid there are applications that are reflected in television and images from time to time. However, it is the will to fight such illegal practices that are important. The political institution also stands firm at the point of fighting these practices. Mr. Bridgelı's findings regarding the Circeşköy Courthouse or the Coroner's Courthouse. The last time he asked, he knew what I was saying, he wanted to bring it up again. Something he'll know. There have been complaints about the Coroner's Courthouse, that there will be a parking problem if there is a courthouse in the first place planned. As for the application for a larger plot of land and a more comfortable project to be implemented, this time project operations have been launched on this land and its project is almost finished, and will be tendered as soon as possible. I'll let you know that. Mr. Özkan: What is the situation with Burdur Courthouse? In this case, one of the courthouse palaces we're going to prioritize in court palaces is Burdur Court Palace. Don't worry, I hope it gets to a certain point in 2013. Mr. Dibek asks what was the outcome of the bill that passed through the Commission and envisioned a change in the Execution Act, which is on the agenda of the General Assembly? As you know, that bill came directly behind the bill we discussed today, General Board. We've completed our unfinished business today. Hopefully, as far as Parliament's agenda is concerned, that bill will pass through Parliament as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0212par0528	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gürkan has entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0213par0531	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, the courts in the district of Edirne have been closed. In this case, about 60,000 of our citizens are victims. Because a citizen has to drive a van to Edirne, or Long Köpörü, before the village, in order to testify. Do you think there's a new arrangement, a solution? Again, Edirne Keşan was on the agenda to build a new courthouse building in our district, but we haven't been able to find any concrete information about it, can you tell us anything about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0535	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0215par0537	Dear lawmakers, regarding the closed courts, these courts are connected to the nearest judicial centers, where needs are being sought, judicial services are being conducted. Other than that, there is, of course, the Court of Justice in what we think. However, the arrivals in the prison have increased somewhat due to the acceleration of judicial proceedings in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has begun to decide the criminal case over a year and a half to three times the amount of criminal cases it has looked at in previous years. The issue of prison investments was a little more important in the priority of investments in trustees. That is, of course, the need for Keshan County. But, uh, let me say that you're waiting your turn according to the important order, and I'll salute the General Assembly again, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0539	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 11th draft of the 342 rows of the current bill. We propose and supply to be replaced in the form of walking. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Malik Ecder Özdemir Mustafa Moroğlu Birgül Ayman Güler Ali Özgündüz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 11th amendment of the current bill 342 rows to the following way. Hasip Kaplan İdris Baluken Estate Onetane The Council of Ministers shall conduct these laws after the verdict has been finalised. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0216par0555	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0556	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0217par0557	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0558	Mr. Kaplan, you will speak, please.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0218par0559	Motive...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0560	You want motive? All right, I'll get you the alibi. The UN Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, particularly the ECHR, and other contracts, were intended to be implemented in the internal law, to be corrected by the 90th Amendment of the Constitution, and to punish those responsible. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 11th draft of the 342 rows of the current bill. We propose and supply to be replaced in the form of walking. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0219par0569	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0570	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0220par0571	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0214par0572	Mr. Original, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0221par0574	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, non-lawmakers may not notice, this law is not a bill to prevent Turkey's human rights violations, but I'll tell you that first. In front of the European Court of Human Rights in front of 30,100 cases, Russia is ranked 1st, and Turkey is second with 17.100 files, but most of the appeals about Russia can be ruled out as unacceptable by 90 per cent. Thus, in this case, our country, unfortunately, is ranked number one in front of the court today on charges of violating the European Convention on Human Rights. In response to a question motion I submitted to the Ministry last year, 159 violations were said to have been made in 2010. 53 of these are in violation of the right to trial in a reasonable amount of time. There are also 30 verdicts in violation of the right to a fair trial, except for the long trial. So unfortunately, our country is the 1st country in which the European Convention on Human Rights is in violation of the right to a fair trial described in Article 6 of the Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and with this bill, it's kind of a friendly solution that I have violated your rights, I've long judged, I've long arrested, let me give you this amount of compensation, take your case back from the European Court of Human Rights. This is the essence of the law. Such an arrangement is, in fact, aimed at correcting our country's criminal record in the European Court of Human Rights, but inside, it's not a corrective arrangement to end human rights violations. Dear friends, let me tell you a story from history, and let me give you an example, and I think it's better to understand the situation that Turkey is in today's judiciary. You may have heard that during the caliph of the Lord Ali, the viceroy was governor of Damascus. A merchant of the tribe comes to Damascus, and Damascus is in the marketplace. A Damascusn citizen likes the camel of Küfelin. He says it's me. Well, brother, I am the camel. Anyway, the conflict is growing. The governor of Damascus is also a wife. The matter is going to the Chief. The prophet says: "I have studied the matter, this camel is of the Damascusn. The people have gathered, saying, 'O people, is this she-camel of Damascus, or of Küfelin? I think it's the shaman's. The people, of course, Governor, said it's true what you say, this she-camel belongs to the Damascusn. Then he leaned into the ear of Küfelin and said: "I also know that this camel is not a she, it is a male camel, and this camel is yours, but go to Ali, and tell him that he has 10,000 followers who can't tell the difference between a she-camel and a male. Let him watch his feet. Let the judgment in Turkey right now is just like the judgment of the Deputy. Go away, please, there's a Ergenekon case tomorrow. Look, you're saying that this Ergenekon gang -- according to you -- was created to overthrow the AKP government. Send in a group of lawmakers, come to the hearing tomorrow; we'll be there, watch this trial. I mean, you should see the comedy, see what kind of court-martialing is playing there. Let the fellow lawyers come, don't be afraid, we'll stop the protest against you and we'll protect you if you have any problems. A bride, I beg you, as a lawyer, as a committee. The AKP government is the victim of this case; come and see the comedy. Unfortunately, the law, which must act justice, is now used as an instrument of persecution through the channel of private courts in Turkey, causing a lot of victims. Sir, the sledgehammer case, here's his justified verdict. The friend just said, you know, how do you make up an excuse, a false motive? Well, you can't tell him apart, so the court is forcing him to make up a false alibi. Reza Turmen said that even though there are no elements of the attempted crime, the court has ruled the prepared action as an attempted crime, and tomorrow there will likely be a false verdict similar to that in Ergenekon. I ask you, lawmakers with a conscience, who really want this country to be a state of law, come tomorrow, watch the Ergenekon trial at Silivri, and report to your party. Therefore, since this law will not prevent human rights violations, it is only a law aimed at deceiving the public that we will vote, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0222par0584	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. Before we vote on the entire bill, I'm going to make a promise to one of the MPs in favor and against it. Lehte, Tunceli MP Kamer Young. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0223par0591	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in fact, it's appropriate for the state to pay compensation to people whose cases are extended, of course, past judicial activities for necessary reasons. It's impossible not to support it. But why do lawsuits grow in Turkey? Look, Ergün Poyraz, who wrote the book The Children of Moses, is in prison today for eight years. This still hasn't come to a proper trial. What's the reason? This is on the minister's instructions. Because the minister wants the man he wants, they take him to what he wants. Remember the lighthouse case? At the Lighthouse, the prosecutors were relieved of duty. He abused his duty, and followed him to the Supreme Court. It turns out these three prosecutors were innocent, not malfeasant. So, what's the role of the person in this office here? That he didn't abuse his position by court order, that these prosecutors would be re-defined as prosecutors in that case, that the replacement of that day's Lighthouse case would nullify the indictment of those who protected the defendants and have them re-arrest that indictment... but what's the use? And the brother of Faruk Çelik went in, and came out two days later. Sir, Recep Erdogan's wife's relative went in for a shakedown investigation, and went out immediately. Now, the only reason justice has come to this point in Turkey is because of AKP, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Sadullah Ergin, and of course Abdullah Gül. Now, dear lawmakers, no matter how excellent a law you make, if people are not afraid of God, if they lack their conscience, the people who apply them will do all sorts of things. These are the men who destroyed justice in Turkey. Justice is being destroyed. Judges are under threat, unable to make proper decisions. And since they didn't, once they're on their side, they let them in. We've got eight MPs in there today. Why are these people inside? This is a member of Parliament. In fact, if they have a crime, you've already set up a special court, you'll collect all the evidence in two months, three months, you'll judge them, you'll punish them for the verb they should be punished for, but if you don't, is there any point in holding them for three years, five years? Who wants to bring down the Turkish army today? Imperialist forces. Who are the servants of the imperialist forces in Turkey? Unfortunately, the power has its extensions. These are the Turkish army, yes... if any of the generals commit a crime, you build a private court -- special to the court -- you judge them immediately, you look for the guilty and the guilty, and these people come out. Is that a thing? Sir, why did you take the General Staff today and give it to the MIT, and why did he become such a martyr among the soldiers? You have to think about all of this, so there's no friendly government in Turkey, no friendly government in the Republic of Turkey, no institutions, unfortunately. All his institutions were destroyed because he wasn't. I went to Tucson the other day, and the students put up a banner: the president's master, the students, next to ODTÜ Τ. • The president is calling the police to take down this banner, friends of the university. He calls the police to the university and 20 students are taken in after a massive beating. Now, would that happen? Friends, why did Recep Tayyip Erdogan enter the Middle East with 3,500 police and 80 armoured? A foreign enemy was entering the country? Did it take so much to go out there and launch a satellite? So in Turkey, the AKP's power and state order were destroyed, the state was transformed, but you're just watching them. I don't accept the minister who sits there during the government. So I'm not going to deal with any of the people in any government who have come to a place in your time of power because they're not neutral, and because they don't have love and respect for this nation and these people, I'm not going to deal with them because they're putting their sense of honesty aside. But unfortunately, this country needs to get out of its misery as soon as possible. I believe you'll make it. Otherwise, Turkey is headed for major disasters, friends, Turkey is falling apart. There is no authority in Turkey. The reason for this is the 325 MPs of the AKP. You guys are pointing fingers at everything. You don't ask, friend, why is this country run like this? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0224par0599	Thank you, Mr. Young. Against...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0225par0601	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0224par0602	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0225par0603	In the speech of the speaker, a minister keeps what he wants in prison and leaves what he wants. If you'll excuse me, I'll answer to the taunt.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0224par0604	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0226par0606	Why are you dealing with him? Who is he to answer?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0224par0607	Here you go, Mr. Ergin.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0227par0610	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't answer the unrealistic statements one by one, but I'd like to say one or two things to those who say, "We don't have any confidence in justice from this stand. " Let's not remind those who say and express these concerns: Likewise, we have no confidence in the army from time to time." Years of trying to make politics in this country by leaning on the military and the judiciary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0228par0612	We never sought refuge, never sought refuge in the army.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0227par0613	...they're right to worry, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0229par0614	That's cheap talk, it doesn't suit a minister.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0227par0615	For those of you who think so, I would say that from now on, the era of politics is over, leaning on the military and the judiciary. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Politician, based on universal law, based on polls in democracies. Let us now know that the age of picking is over by the army and by the judgment of the people in this country, the power he has not received from the nation, the support he has not received from the chest. I think we should all contribute to the institutionalization of our democracy if we don't want to give up a country that's been given to our children once every eight or ten years. If we want our democracy to be uninterrupted and sustainable, we need to support this process. Dear lawmakers, on this stand again, there has been talk of the dissolution, the loss of trust in the judiciary. In 1992, the dismantling of the ministry's staff by issuing the bypass law did not shake our confidence in the judiciary, the judge applauding coup and reviews, the prosecutors did not shake our confidence in the judiciary, the judges who said, "I am a party to the state. I am a party to the state." Prosecutors did not undermine our confidence, the politicians who were imprisoned for reading poetry did not undermine our trust in this judgment! The Supreme Court's famous 367 verdict did not undermine our confidence in the judiciary? Having closed the AK PARTY after eight months with 47 per cent of the vote did not undermine our trust in the judiciary and your trust in this country! You want me to confirm, don't you? Is the high judge's attitude not clouding our confidence? We need militants, not prosecutors, who will write us a report. We need destroyers.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0230par0617	Mr. Secretary, there was trouble at the time, and we were critical at the time, but now you've made judgment a government stick. Have fear of God.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0227par0618	The public engineer of justice has not undermined our trust! The broad-based Constitutional Court doesn't trust anyone, while this doesn't undermine our trust, it doesn't reassure anyone with broad-based HSYK.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0231par0619	Who's assigned the HSYC? Who appointed HSYK?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0227par0620	The co-opting system has disappeared, the new structure does not reassure anyone, and the work of the Supreme Court, which wants to end long trials day and night, does not reassure anyone.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0232par0621	Mr. Secretary, there are people who have been under arrest for over five years, and you've answered the question motion. 700 people have been under arrest for over five years. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0227par0622	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the distrust of those who have just counted and trusted in those crooked practices is the most obvious proof that the judiciary is moving in the right direction today. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0233par0625	Thank you, Mr. Ergin.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0234par0626	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0233par0627	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0234par0628	The Minister has insulted our group by calling the army and the judges. If you'll excuse me, I want your word.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0235par0629	No names, no parties.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0236par0630	No, sir, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0237par0631	He didn't use a name, sir. He didn't use a name.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0238par0632	Mr. President, it's the same... I want to answer to him.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0239par0633	Here you go, Mr. Slim. Please don't give me any more taunts.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0636	Thank you, Mr. President. There was a problem with this country's judgment before you, you're right, you're right. There have been revolutions in this country, there have been coups, right, right, but we've suffered these blows, and we've suffered more than you. On September 12th, our party was shut down, our president was imprisoned, our party's property seized. In those years, your president was playing ball at ITT.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0241par0638	What were you doing?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0639	None of you have been to jail, but Republican People's Party members have gone to jail. Look, we've been tortured. We're not clapping for the coup, but today you've made the judgment the stick of power. Judgement is at your disposal.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0242par0640	There are judges in Ankara. Who said that?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0641	Mr. Secretary, if I were you, I'd watch the hearings at Silivri.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0243par0642	Come tomorrow, we invite you. We'll be there tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0643	Look, you don't have to be a musician to distinguish the crow's voice from the nightingale's voice, or you don't have to finish law school to see the crime of law in Silivri, and justice undermined. You may need that judgment someday. People would have laughed if they said you were going to be in power thirty years ago, but today you have a overwhelming majority in Congress. You chose Chankaya, you appointed the rectors, you appointed the governors. It'll all come and go. There was an ANAP with 300 people, but today isn't even an ANAP sign party. Has the judgment made a mistake in the past? Yes, he did, but today you made judgment your puppet.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0244par0646	That's not true!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0647	The judge is your bat today. Mr. Secretary, if a judge in this country nominates a government donkey, I'll vote.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0245par0649	Don't flex!
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0650	Did he say that? Did he say that?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0245par0651	That's not what he said.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0240par0652	If the government nominates the donkey, I will vote. Would a judge judge judge rule? Can this judge be fair? Look, guys, lawmakers, I don't do politics here, believe me, I don't do politics. Look how good it is, it's our judgment. If you say it, it'll kick your ass one day. You couldn't raise it, so you worked all night to save the Undersecretary of MIT and made a law here. Why? What were you afraid of? Judgement should be no one's soldier. Judgement must be fair. Judgement must be honest, neutral. You may have taken it for yourself, but don't worry, you may have created your own monster. Remember that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, look in the past, who came across in Afghanistan after that. It's been like this all over the world. Whoever supported and created a monster came and destroyed it first. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0659	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0662	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0663	Sir?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0664	Sir, he misinterpreted my statement. I didn't say that... you put your back into the army.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0665	What was it?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0666	I'll tell him from the stand, he got it wrong.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0667	Fix it, please.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0668	Sir, he misunderstood me. I want to explain. So why did you do this to the army? He said that we came to power by sticking our backs to the army. That's not what I meant. I meant something else, let me explain.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0248par0669	We get it, sir. We get it.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0670	Please tell me you mean it, and we'll put it on the record.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0671	No, I'll sing from the stand there.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0672	So...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0673	No, I want to talk to you about teasing me because he's reversing my speech. I didn't mean the group, I meant the Kamer Young.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0674	Yes, Mr. Group Vice President has made a statement.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0675	But he meant my opinion differently.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0676	And you say that he has misinterpreted what you say.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0677	No, our group president was right, but Sadullah Ergin misinterpreted my words.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0678	Okay, he misinterpreted it, correct it.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0679	But let me explain how you misinterpreted it, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0680	Okay, he misread it. You said, "It's in the transcripts." Please.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0247par0681	Sir, let me explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0246par0682	It's been explained enough. Against you, Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0249par0689	As the Peace and Democracy Party, I'd like to explain why we said no to this law, the last word we voted against it. You've been in power as an AK PARTY for ten years.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0250par0691	It's not the AK PARTY, it's the AKP.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0249par0692	You've done the best of victims. In each period, you also complained about military custody, you complained about prosecution, you complained about bureaucratic custody, and most importantly, you complained about national judiciary, political judgment, extraordinary courts, and, of course, the biased, ideological minister who was away from the judge's principle. Where have you guys been in ten years? Turn around and look at yourselves. Every decade a country is changed, every decade a revolution is made. For ten years, you've had the power to change from the beginning to the end of the justice system. You were a majority in the House. As far as you're concerned, the most MPs are under arrest in your time. At most, the mayor, the most elected, the most politicians, the most partyed, over 10,000 political prisoners are currently under arrest in your time. In your time, most journalists are under arrest. In your day, the right to defend is sacred. You're going through a period where the most lawyers are under arrest. During your time, the most intellectual, artist, journalist was arrested for his thoughts on the Anti-Terror Law. Your Prime Minister has been convicted of DGM for reading a poem. We fought as lawyers in the European court to remove the DGMs that your Prime Minister was arrested on, we removed those DGMs from the AIHM decisions we received. At the time, the decisions of the ECHR meant something. The ECHR (European Court) national superior judiciary had an effect on this political judiciary: We shortened long detentions, brought them in four days from 15 days to 93. They were dynamically effective. We've made a lot of decisions about torture houses, detentions, jails... fair trial, right to defend. But at this point, the global crisis is polluting Europe, too, friends, the crisis is not just economic. The crisis began to corrode moral values, human values, moral values, all of them. Today, this law that we're arguing about is a law by the EC PARTI government that can only pass a law from 16,650 cases in the European Court to the year 2023, which you're aiming to prosecute in this process, until 2023, in the grip of an unjust trial, dependent, biased, political, biased, ideological, someone had before them, and now you've got nothing to change. It hasn't changed for the Kurd, it hasn't changed for Alevi, it hasn't changed for the worker, it hasn't changed for the officer, it hasn't changed for him, it hasn't changed for him, it's not changed. Let's not fool ourselves about this. With the European Union, you can negotiate with the Court of Human Rights. Due to the economic crisis, they could be the target of getting rid of 16,000 cases. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How are you going to satisfy women with money when violence is inflicted on women, when their rights are violated, when they're raped, when they're tortured, when they're being wrongfully arrested for a long time? Money isn't everything, guys.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0251par0695	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0249par0696	A little humanity, a little conscience! Where there's a conscience, where there's justice, where there's emotion, there's moments when compensation commissions, administrative commissions can't afford justice. You don't get freedoms with money, you don't get personal rights with money, you don't get fair trial with money. Because of human identity, you can't afford to be humiliated, taken, thrown in because of his ethnitism, because of his faith. Everybody needs justice, guys. The Peace and Democracy Party is the honor of this Assembly, so we vote for it standing up, and we stand against it, and we say, "Remember where there is no justice -- where there is no justice -- remember the word of Duverger" -- anyone can be blamed. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit03spe0252par0700	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the clear vote of Bill 342 rows: [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Muhammad Bilal Macit Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. I wish him well. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0252par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 50th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue the talks of Bill 370. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part covers the 9th and 17th article. On the second chapter, İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0253par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Changes in the social security and social insurance system, which are among the main tasks of the welfare state, have made pension guarantees and pensions problematic for employees. With the increase in pension and premium payday, the future concerns and assurances of employees have become increasingly risky, as practices have been implemented, such as reducing the amount of pensions. There is no stopping off-the-books work, so there is no charge inspection. We face the opposite situation when it is claimed that through the following programmes there will be an environment of prosperity, freedom and democratisation. Neoliberal globalization has led to a serious decline in socialization of prosperity, while centralizing the wealth that exists. People get richer all the time, millions get poorer. The premiums for retirement are made at a minimum by employers, and pensioners are unfortunately unable to pay their pension when they are born. This doesn't just happen in private companies. The additional payments to the police are not reflected in their bonuses, they are sentenced to receive a pension below half the amount they receive when the police are working, as a result of additional payments paid after retirement. Under the poverty limit, salary is adrift for pensioners. People who have worked for years are able to breathe comfortably when they retire, when they are breathless, when they are able to find peace, by debt, by mortar, by living their lives. In three months, pensioners had been obliged to apply to the Social Security Agency to cut social security benefits from their salaries, but many pensioners were unable to pay the premium because they did not follow and apply for legal arrangements. The government, who knew the opportunity, demanded a back-to-back bonus from the pensioners he found in the IRS records, and punished the taxpayers with a second tax. This is a second tax for pensioners who register and pay regular taxes to the state because the social security institution that receives this bonus does not benefit the pensioner because the pensioner already has these rights. In other words, pensioners who work, produce added value, pay taxes, continue to contribute to the country, because the state does not pay enough wages and deprives them of the opportunities to live humanly. After stalling millions of pensioners for months, the point is that hundreds of thousands of pensioners get their wages. Retired pensioners find 5 million people, 10 million with their wives. How many years will pensioners wait to retire, Mr. Secretary? Once again, I want you to explain this from here.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0254par0016	Mr. Chelebi, they're stuck on the jaw, the jaw, the jaw... they're stuck on the jaw, not on the chin.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0253par0017	People can't retire in 20 years. In this working life and in the performance-based system, it is now difficult, difficult, and even vanishing that people will be able to obtain their pensions after 40. When the age requirement is brought in, you are young. It is said that the age condition is the state again. Here's the thing: you're young, you can't retire; you're old, you can't get a job. One of the problems with pensioners is that the higher the premium, the lower the salary. It's said that you work, pay the premium. I'll lower your salary. In our country, the increase in gross domestic revenues is not even reflected in pensions. When they go to health care institutions, they also receive contributions. Again, pensioners are not paid for their welfare by the practice launched in 2000. With this practice, pensioners' salaries melt in the face of increasing inflation rates. Our Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said Turkey was the highest pensioner's salary compared to the salary taken between European countries during the period. Contrary to what the minister said, the average pension in France is 1,400 euros, $3,300 in today's currency; 2,200 euros in Greece, 2,800 euros in Germany, 1,550 euros in Germany. Compared to European countries in this sense, the real picture of pensioners in Turkey will be seen and revealed, based on their living standards, salary, hunger limit. Our Finance Minister is either ignoring or ignoring the conditions of pensioners living in his country. The social state is the state that protects its citizens, not the victim, but the one that protects them when they need to. I'd like to make a final statement here: The amendment to Article 15 of the Bags Act and the Unions and the Common Business Relations Bill is a incomplete arrangement. Under the amendment, trade unions, which will remain under the labour arm dam in the January 2013 statistics, will have never benefited from the 40 per cent business dam. The amendment in the law also eliminates the possibility that trade unions, which had not exceeded the threshold in 2009, would benefit from a zero-employment threshold until the release of the 2013 statistics. I'd like to point out here once again that this law must be corrected correctly so that there will be no change over and over again in the arrangement. My dear friends, when we set forth from these examples that I have just given, the bag of legislation and many arrangements are put into practice by participating in one another. Once again, after the Intibak Act, you may have received a vote from pensioners once, twice, three times, but now the pensioners are in revolt, pensioners are in foreclosures, age-raising riots. However, Mr. Secretary, if you've just set a calendar on subcontractors, put a calendar from here, once again, about age hangers, and let's not have this Parliament talking about this age problem here every day, let's get all citizens out of this trouble, out of this misery. Because citizens who have earned pensions can't find work because of their age, they're out of work, and their problems are growing. I say it's the government's duty to make a cure for this, your duty to this House. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0255par0024	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0256par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, at this hour, we are faced with a bill that concerns working life again, but corrects the shortcomings of our past, wrongs. Mr. Secretary, of course, he's saying nice things, but... here, he says it's aimed at these goals. As this law comes out, there are many issues that he has promised, both before and after. We had motions from our friends from all the opposition in the Plan and Budget Commission. And we want to, of course, have, in fact, some of the victims are being taken care of, but other than that, there are many other victims, Mr. Secretary, and you know it. It's the best we can do. It's the best we can do. It's the best we can do. Now, since there's a law on this issue, we're always forwarding it to you on the subcommittee, on the commission, in order to address such legislation, proposals, needs to be met. As a matter of fact, of course, we find that some of the victims are being compensated positive, but there are flaws here. Now, in particular, the issues that have been combined with the proposals that we signed, in this case, reveal the shortcomings in the frame that I just said. Minister, now that you're hiring, you've set a condition here in case you have a foreign language requirement. Now, let's get rid of the victim, which is fine, but we're testing 15 or 20 times, and the people we're still taking are still not fulfilling that requirement. So, okay, let's get this done, and why don't we take it accordingly, or why don't we take the exams accordingly? There's something in here that doesn't work. The victim's here, we're stuck, the egg's at the door, so let's figure it out. Now, we need to take precautions before we get there, we need to figure out the quality of the people we're going to get. And when we don't do that, we have to rush here to discuss law proposals and bills. So, as we're saying now, if we could've gone through with the other victims, you wouldn't be able to come up with another arrangement tomorrow. Our friends have just referred to us in general, of course, as we speak of the general law, Mr. Kalayci has also mentioned, and we have discussed some issues in our opposition. There are a lot of victims here, Mr. Secretary. Your commitment to the contractors in particular doesn't seem to have been fully fulfilled yet. So it's not just you, it's the Prime Minister's promise at the polls, and then there's what you said at your press conferences. Unfortunately, many of these remain unsupervised. Now, new victims are coming, new municipalities have been shut down. What's going to happen to the personnel around here? That's all there is to it. Unfortunately, first of all, the problem with these contractors continues as a bleeding wound for the 4/C. On the other hand, there's a lot of talk about the part of the press that's been here 24 hours with us -- they're still being talked about -- they're still being talked about, but there's no solution. Again, our friends here just asked as a question, but he didn't show up, and I know very well, so when there are membership records in some rooms, it's made to look like it's working. We've spoken to the district managers, and there's nothing to be done. I'm afraid they're demanding a return of the pension to a certain extent. I mean, this person doesn't work, but he's retired. There's not even a dues payment there, it just seems passive, so it looks like it's working. So, we don't think it's right to cut back on your pension after people who are re-employing, freelancers. Such setbacks, on this occasion, were supposed to be corrected by this bill as an excuse. It's about the BUG-KUR again. The rest of the pensioners are constantly talking about our friends, but there's no solution here. Minister, this has to be said and resolved on this occasion by you, but beyond that, something is still happening in the working life. Our friends just told me, I'm reading some stuff about subcontractorship, but I think you're just thinking about tax size. In fact, we've talked about non-union in working life, we've discussed it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it. It's like we're just talking about subcontractorization over their tax premiums and severance pay. So here we're not talking about the social problem, the fact that they're being done by union workers, by organized workers, by subcontractors, by low wages, by subcontractors, by doing things that are easier to do. This problem needs to be solved radically. This is also about the solution to off-the-book employment. I mean, a lot of people don't register, they don't pay insurance, they don't have insurance, they don't have premiums, they don't get health care. Therefore, all of this would have to be corrected on this occasion, and other setbacks in working life continue, unfortunately. So we're coming here now... and you've said something in addition to what you've said that we're very interested in... there's no unemployment in the Plan and Budget Commission, because people are looking for workers, and they can't find them, Mr. Secretary. Of course, he made an irony, but now... well, I'm asking you: last time Mr. Finance Minister said we're still going to reform income tax, we're going to reform institutional tax. Minister, you've been in power for ten years, and you've been in all of them. If we still can't raise interpersonal staff, technical staff to those sectors that are missing, then there's something wrong with our employment policy and our vocational training. He puts some political debates and vocational high schools in a different category, and the technical high schools in the same category as imam-haki upper secondary schools, and if we sacrifice them to politics, naturally we don't have intermediaries, we don't have vocational institutes, we don't have an effective education plan. What's the result? The result is still 9.1 per cent, a unemployment rate approaching 9.5 per cent if we eliminate seasonal effects. Dear friends, please don't look at us as if we've had too much unemployment to compare them with a year ago, two years ago. So it's become a habit of the Justice and Development Party governments to constantly compare back to each other. The more our friends come, the more they analyze it here. But with the recession at the moment, the result of the reduction in economic growth is unfortunately not falling below 9%. Now I'm telling you: you look back on it, you say it was 10.3 in 2002, but when you look at 2000, it's 8.5 percent when you look at 7,90 percent. Where's Turkey? So that growth reflects on whose well-being, who does it employ? You still insist on not accepting what we keep saying. So yesterday Mr. Mahir -- he's not here, but -- I condemn those who wrote that speech by Mr. Gardener. Now I say to Mr. Prime Minister's speech -- I don't mean politics -- we still say that if you continue without admitting that this is a problem, we have no chance of solving it without admitting that there is an economic structure that is dependent on imports in a way that passes the 80 per cent of it, just by reforms, by law, and in essence, the wrong economic growth. I wonder who's printing it. I mean, on the one hand, there are no employees in the field. So we say, "Mr. Minister of National Education, I've already told the head of the NGO -- have you identified the needs for inter-agency colleges and universities? Have you identified the sectors' need for interpersonal personnel? Did you plan anything accordingly? What areas do you need more people in higher education, which ones need graduates in two years? We see each other, we have had a few meetings, he said. Otherwise... we called it active labor programs, some money, from the unemployment insurance, from the fund, but as a result, there's a problem. So we don't have qualified labor and we don't have the means to employ the labor force at hand. Only imports, sales, consumption, including VAT, which is taken from this one, are out of VAT. So we need to start an investment, production, export campaign to solve all these problems, we need to take all the precautions that need to be taken, otherwise we're going to keep doing this. Minister, while we're here, the bailiffs have a request, and there's a report from the association on their staff and their rights, and since I don't have much time, I'll present it to you. They demand that both their rights be improved and their staff be given. I wish you good luck, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0257par0043	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0258par0047	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a personal commitment to the second chapter, and I salute you all. Among other things, the way the bill came to the commission, the fact that the opposition's proposals were not taken into consideration, and the time for the study of the bill was limited, there are positive regulations in the context of the bill. It's possible to say that the bill's provisions are not negative, they're inadequate. I'll get to that in a minute. Its provisions are positive that the bill will include a tradesman on the SGK Governing Body, that the martyrs and veterans and their relatives will benefit from private hospitals regardless of the transfer system. While the sentence under which one of our young people completed high school education and was obliged to attend college the same year is positive, the conditions of our country are seen to be inadequate. Given the complexity of the provisions of our educational system during your governments, we should have considered that it was almost impossible for our young people to get into college on their first entrance to the exam. Here, young people who did not give up after their first chance at college should be included in the study hall, continuing to prepare for exams. It is also seen as a grave mistake to reject the proposal given by Republican People's Party MPs and the proposals for the law, as well as the motions made during the commission talks. Once again, the problems of our citizens, who have sought us, who have been described as elderly victims in retirement, have been ignored when they can be easily resolved by this bill. My fellow lawmakers, it is imperative to find an intermediary way to resolve the problems of those who have completed the time required for retirement through the 1999 arrangement, but who are unable to retire due to the age limit. The private sector tells these people that they can't work anymore because of their age. The state says, "You're still young, keep working." These people live under double pressure. We get hundreds of calls, petitions, e-mails, every day. I'm sure you've been reported in the same intensity as this victim. Here, both the victims and the state's capacity for this matter may be included in this bill, while power has been insensitive to the problem. Similarly, the proposals and proposals of the main opposition have been ignored. Another thing that can be resolved as part of this bill is that after the start of the insurance policy, there is no part of the arrangement for those who have quit or been removed to close the gaps through debt. Dear lawmakers, in addition to these, one area that must be organised is social security benefits from the tradesman's pension. The goal of cutting social security benefits from those who continue to work after retirement is to open the way for young people who are expected to join the labour force. So those who enter the working life after they are retired are blocked by young people who want to join the job. It is said that in return, some sort of deterrent amount of money is cut off from their salaries, including their social security benefits. If we move from this point, there's no reason why the social security benefits premium should be cut from the tradesmen and artists' pensions. They do not block employment opportunities, rather, they employ as employers. These workers are being punished with social security benefits. Here, it is not retired tradesmen and artists who keep jobs open and continue to work after retirement, but also provide jobs for young people; it is the government that gives them additional costs under social security benefits, which increases business costs, which allows the employer to fire the employee. According to NGO data, there are over 13,000 people who continue to work by opening a business after retirement. These people, who employ at least 1, 2 people, are rightly expected to end their social security premiums for years. The bill we're talking about contains a provision for the restructuring of social security premium debts only, which is a major flaw. The social security premium must be lifted completely. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0259par0059	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. We're moving on to Q and A. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0260par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in this next bill, you're now making a change with the law in the past, in the decree of the law. Isn't the absence of a decree in this rule of law not coming to Parliament, not coming to the General Assembly, a kidnapping from the General Assembly's legislature? Question number two: if the worker, the employee, doesn't raise this much, sir. You say, "How much is a TC-TUR registered aircraft for Turkish Airlines in this period of time?" If it was taken, where and for what purpose is it still there? What's the make and type of plane? What's the range of the plane? What is the total capacity of the aircraft in question? Is there a separate cost for the disbursement of the plane, other than the purchase price, or if it's being done, what's the cost? How much does an hour's flight cost, except for insurance, maintenance amortization costs? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0261par0066	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0262par0068	Thank you. There's no regulation in the law, not at the moment. We don't quite understand that question. Let's answer the second question in writing.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0263par0071	Mr. President, it's not over, there's still time.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0264par0072	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0263par0073	Sir, how many people are there who don't get green cards under the law about Social Insurance and Public Health Insurance Act and the Green Cards of Citizens Without Payable Power 3816? What is the province that benefits most from the green card? What is the least useful province on a green card? According to the provinces, I demand that the number of green cards be delivered to my side separately.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0264par0075	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0265par0076	Yes, it's a very meaningful question. Hopefully we'll present this in writing to our Congressman as soon as possible. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0264par0078	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0266par0079	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit04spe0264par0080	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, if you have no further questions... We've finished our talks on chapter two. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-01-09sit05spe0264par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 50th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue the talks of Bill 370. Commission? No. It's been postponed. So, in order to discuss other tasks from commissions, with the bill and proposals, on Thursday, January 10, 2013, at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
