tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 24th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Mardin MP Abdurrahim Akdağ, who asked for the appointment of 3 December World Day for the disabled. Before Mr. Akdağ speaks, lawmakers, our friend has prepared, he will speak, but there is a very big hum in the House. Please, I'd appreciate it if we could ease the hum. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of myself as regards the 3rd December World Day of the disabled. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers are celebrated all over the world by various events as the Day of the disabled. According to the World Health Organization, 500 million of the world's population are disabled. In Turkey, 8.5 million people are disabled, comprising 12.3 per cent of the population. Solving the problems our disabled citizens face in everyday life, providing all the support necessary to sustain their lives as self-sufficient individuals, is our primary goal as well as our goal as the EC PARTI as it is important to be a social state. The improvements in the disabled areas were adopted to a constitutional level in 2010, and positive discrimination was guaranteed in the constitutional order, in which measures for disabled persons would not be considered contrary to the principle of equality. As in human rights documents, this year's regulation has been presented with a declaration of immunity from our national legislation, which has been adopted by the defamation, disability, and decomposition. As a result of this test, our power over disabled employment has also performed the world's first and has passed the OMSS exam, which resulted in 16,000 disabled jobs. In 2002, the number of disabled members of the disabled staff was 5,777, while that number was up to 35,000 today. In the private sector, the number of disabled workers employed as of 2002 has also been increased from 10,883 to 25,544, as of August 2013, and thus a large number of disabled jobs have been carried out in the private sector. In 2002, the disability pensions were raised from $24 to 765 euros during the AK PARTI rule period, as of 2013. Our services continue in the field of care for disabled persons. In 2002, 2,647 disabled people wait in line for institutional care, while no one is waiting in line today. As of October 2013, we have 424,823 disabled citizens in home care services. Again, in the period of our rule, in 2005, it was obliged to adapt services provided in institution and open areas to the use of disabled people to remove barriers to the participation of disabled people in social life. Regarding accessibility, a commission was established within the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission -- in my presidential capacity -- and all parties, our groups supported it. Our report has been submitted to relevant locations. The EC PARTY Centre also organises 12 workshops to facilitate the lives of disabled and disabled people. In light of the data obtained in these workshops, a step has been taken to determine social policies. In the field of education, significant improvements have been made in the AK PARTY administration. The number of students at private education and rehabilitation centres increased by more than 4 floors in 2006 to 263,000. Our goal is 2023 in Turkey, where the minimum standards for housing, transportation, communication and work conditions are provided and are widespread throughout the country, so that the disabled can maintain their social and economic lives easier. Individuals, families, and society are increasingly conscious of their disability rights. Our disabled are no longer hiding within four walls. The biggest obstacle is the barrier to minds and hearts. I believe tenacity, determination, self-esteem can make a man do a lot of things. I know from my own life that it's advantageous for me to be at peace with my own disability, my environment, society. I also tell all my disabled brothers: You have brains, you have hearts, you have human love; remember that there is much you can do. If you say you can do it, know that beyond your dreams, there are things you can make happen. As human beings, I wish we could leave a nice little behind and not get caught up in the obstacles. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the great House, and wish you a world without obstacles.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Akdağ. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP who wants to talk about the problems of the disabled. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, I've made a pledge to the esteemed lawmakers to mark the day of the disabled of the world. I salute your honorable committee. Our disabled citizens have equal rights to our country. One of the duties of the modern state is to provide opportunity equality for the disabled, to encourage the disabled to develop in line with their abilities, to provide economic and social well-being. However, a common state policy has yet to be formed with the participation of all institutions and organisations associated with disabled persons. For this reason, some 9 million disabled citizens in our country suffer from education, health, employment, and transportation in all areas. The latest comprehensive study on disabled persons is the 2002 study of Turkey's Retarded Research. In the AKP-era statistical data on disabled persons, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy does not know the number of disabled citizens in the field of responsibility, the disability situation, education, health and employment situation. The employment policy for disabled persons is largely based on quota technique. The number of disabled officers that should be employed in public is 3%. According to the Employment Law, three per cent of workers in private sectors employing 50 or more workers must be employed by the public with four per cent disability. Turkey's Employment Institution is responsible for the employment of disabled workers, but Turkey's Business Agency cannot carry out its mandate to provide labour for the market, and it remains employed only as part of the demands that come to it. Workplaces that employ more than 50 people are usually located in large cities, where industry and service are developed, so the disabled in less developed areas cannot benefit from the quota system. The AKP government claimed it would be the year of the disabled in 2010, and promised to fill all public openings. However, according to the State Chief of Staff, 43 per cent of the public position of a disabled officer is empty, which corresponds to 23.545. 30 disabled officers are available at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is responsible for disabled employment. In accordance with the Employment Law, also place an empty-impaired worker's quota. In the private sector, an empty-impaired worker has a quota of 23.298. An employer who does not comply with the obligation to work with the disabled is fined 1,832 lira per month for every disabled worker and non-employee. Since this amount of punishment is not deterrent, the employer prefers to pay a fine instead of running disabled. Increase the number of disabled individuals between the ages of 5 and 18 registered in the national disabled database 323. According to the Ministry of National Education, 539 private and knitting teachers receive 51,000 students at school. A total of 8,000 teachers serve in these schools. Therefore, the number of schools and teachers that provide education for disabled ones is very inadequate. The disability of many institutions and organisations and rehabilitation services are not considered as a whole. This leads to the dissolution of legislation, the confusion of duty and authority. The number of people who need rehabilitation education is around 2 million, while the number of disabled who receive it is 242. Social care services for disabled persons are also extremely inadequate. The budget for the Office of the disabled and Older Services is also inadequate, and therefore, projects that NGOs want to implement with state support are not rejected on grounds of lack of resources. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy should first increase the budget of the Centre for Disabled and Older Services, instead of spending millions on building and car rentals. With these thoughts, with an unstoppable desire for a world, I end my words, and I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in order to assess individuals' disability situations within the framework of basic human rights due to the fact that it is the day of the world's disabled. I salute your high council. Obstruction is a subject that has a highly heterogeneous group that can also enter into the field of many different disciplines from sociology to economics, bioethics to law. As the World Health Organization established, 10 per cent of the world's population consists of disabled individuals. Another unsurprising point is the relationship between disability and poverty and the number of disabled populations in the developing countries. Women who have been disabled throughout history, with disadvantaged groups such as themselves, children, ethnic and religious minorities, have faced unfair attitudes and practices in the way that groups are destined to be pushed out of society, discrimination, branding, and not accepted as individuals. In addition to being excluded from education to health, social and economic areas, the disabled who have been deprived of democratic rights to participate in the social process and the most basic human rights of human rights have remained the subject of philanthropy activities that are focused on by conscience. The agreements signed on the relationship between the human rights of disabled individuals are still superficial, and the approach in the form of helping hand is still ongoing in terms of state, community and individual perceptions. Celebrity organizations, which are famous for the use of wheelchairs for those with physical disability, are a clear indication that it is not possible for the first ladies to put a nursing home in their programs during diplomatic visits and to change the subject's minds with international contracts alone. There is an urgent need for a view of disability from personal tragedy to the centre of the disabled, which is imposed by state institutions and society. Obstruction is a situation where one's medical inadequacies arise when faced with environmental factors, physical and social barriers. In a sense, what we call non-blocked lawmakers is structures and regulations that only refer to people who are considered normal. This is clearly a violation of human rights and discrimination. It is extremely late to consider the issue in our country, but it will be an effective step. Unfortunately, the disabled person, who is judged only by medical approaches, is expected to be treated, repaired, normalized, and adapt to society, due to the disability that is physical or mental. In this case, the ruling community is expected to continue its life within the framework of its own perceptions and needs, while the disabled person -- as if it were just an individual problem that concerns it -- is to be as much about this dominant life as it can overcome disability. Dear lawmakers, people are not valued for their economic value, nor for their usefulness to work, only because they mean something in terms of being human beings. This is inevitable for disabled individuals. Of course, society is an institution of different individuals and therefore has to host differences well. It must be our priority to address the inequality and discrimination experienced in all areas from transport to communication, from education to working life. Dear lawmakers, there are many issues that cannot be postponed, such as equating opportunities for disabled persons to live as satisfied, productive and happy individuals, removing obstacles to accessibility, fighting disability-based negative discrimination. Regarding the matter, I hereby call on all institutions and all political parties to be reinstated. I wish for a world without obstacles, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I will promise two groups of vice presidents and ten of our friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today is the day of the disabled. The disabled don't want to be remembered just one day a year. The disabled know that if the government had taken necessary precautions in traffic, health, minefields and other areas, they would not have been disabled. The disabled don't want to be shown pity or favoured. The disabled only want their rights and universal rights. The disabled don't want to beg, they want to work. The disabled want to join the administration. The disabled want to exist in life. So, who's blocking these rights? Administs with no bodily barriers but a mental block and a moral block. I'd like to remind these kind of disabled executives that they're a candidate for bodily disability. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0009par0069	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a property problem in our Üsküdar district, Yavuzturk neighborhood, there's a zoning problem -- and Mr. Minister here -- I don't have the facilities to clean in schools. The staff hired by the PTA are only cleaning schools, and in that sense... Of course, the Minister isn't listening, but to whom am I speaking, Mr. President, I don't know, they're still having conversations.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0011par0074	No, the 60th substance... it could be, it might not listen.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0010par0075	And as a result, the government, please, needs to take care of our schools. At the same time, our Sultanbeyli, in Umraniye, in Beykoz, in Chile, because of the 2/B problem, the citizens are victims. He can't pay the price, his property is violated in that sense. These costs need to be reevaluated and reduced. I ask you to do what is necessary in this matter.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to wish all the disabled and the whole world a happy World Day. In this sense, an investigation has been launched by the March 18th Rectorship for trees and saplings that they planted in our 18th University -- to love only green, plant trees, and make the universities greener -- to set an example for us in Çanakkale. Again, these students are seen to be absent from school and banned from entry under the safety of the investigation. In Turkey, especially due to the SEC created by September 12th, and depending on this, these practices by the last appointed President of the University of March 18, our students, our modern university, and especially our fellow students at Çanakkale.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0014par0084	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mayor. The number of doctors at Lütfiye Nuri Burat State Hospital in İstanbul Sultangazi district Uğur Mumcu neighborhood is a complaint against the people of the district due to deficiencies and deficiencies in the service. There's a pediatrician in the hospital, and this doctor takes care of 100-120 patients a day. It's only filling and filming for the tooth. No root canals, no X-rays. Some doctors get a report for permission, they don't come to the hospital for six months. Since there are no staff, there are no necessary doctors for services. There's no intensive care unit, it'll be built. It's called being called. Many patients are referred to other hospitals because of these absences. Is this what the government calls the health system? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0016par0089	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The great Turkish nation has turned the democratic opening of the AKP's power into the opening of the region of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and Barzani. This expansion has transformed an official of a foreign state into an internal affairs of the Republic of Turkey. This expansion has turned Mehmetchik to self-defense in his homeland. As a result, the AKP's solution process has become the process of breaking the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey and taking down the Turkish flag, instead opening the rags of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The signs of the Republic of Turkey have been carved out of the signs by the AKP, and Turkey is being removed from the region step by step. Finally, the moon star Al, whose color was drawn from the blood of the martyrs, was brought down from the flag. In fact, it's not the flag that was sent down, it's the state of the Republic of Turkey. Prime Minister Erdogan has avoided this vile attack with false rhetoric. The pampered PKK has become an identity checker in the region, collects extortion, and becomes a martyr.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0018par0094	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0019par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, in recent years, the problems of our pensioners have increased because of the economic indicators that have broken down against him, and many of our pensioners, unfortunately, have had to work in a second job because they can't get along. Our demands for the removal of social security benefits from the salaries of our pensioners, who opened a business or worked a second job, have repeatedly been passed on to the interested, but so far no results have been achieved. Despite Mr. Minister's statement to correct this direction, I'm sending his request for immediate solutions to this issue, which so far has not been achieved. I would also like to call upon the government to help improve the salaries and rights of our pensioners, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0020par0100	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0021par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, our Parliament building has been invaded by the bleachers brought in by the candidates because of the ruling party's candidate promotion. He's had trouble walking down the hall, finding a place in the parking lot, in the restaurant. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not a candidate for promotion. The ruling party, like any other party, has broken the law of other parties by doing this in a hall outside the House. On the other hand, the government, which has waged war on Turkicism, has been in league with every entity that has attacked Turkishness in the outside world. In this respect, while the government is trying to destroy Turkmen in Macedonia, in Western Thrace, in Bulgaria, Syria, and Iraq, the government is watching. Ershad Salihi, leader of the Iraqi Turkmen Front, condemned to solitude, was attacked two days ago. In Iraq, where the Iraqi Turkmen are forced to emigrate and the non-immigrants are left with the massacre, the AKP government must start doing the right thing now. For this occasion I invite the government to the right policies, saying to Ershad Salihi.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0022par0106	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0023par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out that the purchases of tobacco in Ulubey and Eşme districts of Ulubey have been delayed and received by very low numbers. AFTER the sale of TECEL businesses, our peasant was abandoned at the mercy of the merchant. Is the government going to attempt to solve the problem of our village, our tobacco manufacturer in any way? That's what the butler manufacturers are asking. Mr. President, there's also the issue: In Silivri F Block, AIDS patients and other prisoners are present in the same environment. This is a life-threatening event for both those patients and other inmates. I'd like to call upon the Department of Justice to end such a wrong procedure in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0024par0112	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0025par0114	Mr. President, there's no race called Turkish (Turkish) that aims to disrupt the integrity of the Turkish state and national unity. The existence of the Turkish nation has reached the lowest point that it can come to. They have nothing to say as an insult to the common people. Besides, we were told that the crusader spirit and the lovers of Sevr and Taşnak were not part of the Turkish nation, and that the PKK was not part of the Turkish nation. Turkishism is the sword of Islam. The Turkish nation is the name of the people praised by the Holy Prophet. I say it's your misfortune, if God has not granted such a blessed nation the right to deny the Turkic mentality. And I would like to remind our beloved nation that there is no more room in this land for you and the AKP policies that deny you and your existence to shut up and back down. Today is the day, and I say the AKP must be brought to terms with power before the greater misfortune befalls the nation.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0026par0117	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0027par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Today's the day of the disabled world. We embrace all our disabled citizens as Republican People's Party Group on World Day. According to official figures, 12.3 per cent of our population consists of about 9.5 million disabled citizens. In the face of such a number, the World Day of the disabled has a much more special meaning in Turkey. The disabled are a very important group of needs, not just for themselves, but for his family, for his immediate environment and for our community. Although our disabled citizens have no differences in the basic needs of other communities, basic services have a special need for accessibility, a special interest group because they have great difficulty reaching those services. In this framework, it is the greatest need for their environments to be organized, arranged according to their needs, and the problem is that the main problem arises from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since our other legislators have given us two minutes, one minute more time...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0028par0123	They usually give the group's deputy presidents two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0029par0124	I don't know anything about that. I know it's a minute for everyone.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0028par0125	I mean, since we're making a statement on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0029par0126	Reverend, I don't know, it's the first time I've heard of it.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0028par0127	Here we go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0029par0128	Now I know, now I know. I'm giving it to 10 people, I know it's a minute. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0030par0131	In terms of basic needs, our disabled citizens, who are no different from other communities, have great difficulty reaching public services. The arrangement of the social environment, their habitats, emerges as a very important need in this framework. Despite the laws that have been passed, however, they still have great challenges in this area. Even though the statute of limitations on public institutions and private institutions are over, regulations to extend this period are a major problem. Let us put an end to these problems and organize our living environment, living areas, in line with our disabled citizens. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0029par0133	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0031par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. The disability is not just a health issue, but a matter of social dimensions and society. In order to bring disabled citizens into society, to live independently, independently, on their own, they need to be raised to life levels; in the present conditions, they need to provide services and jobs in good environments. This should be the most important goal on December 3, 2013 on the Day of the disabled. In this sense, at least, I urge the government to be more sensitive in this regard, since the public-opened disability employment must be provided immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0032par0138	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0033par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we urge all political parties, NGOs and Parliament to be sensitive about the problems of our disabled citizens, which are 12.5 per cent of the population of Turkey, on the basis of the World's Handicapped Day of December 3rd. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we would like to state that it is imperative to establish a ministry that will identify the problems of our disabled citizens and produce a solution. Again, I'd like to say that today we're going to submit a research motion to the Parliament to investigate these problems, and we expect support from all political parties in this regard. Again, a few days ago, violence was inflicted on a doctor and a nurse who worked in a service hospital at Surayyapaşa Chest Hospital. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we would like to rephrase that we condemn the violence against health workers, especially this incident, and we would like to say that the real cause of this violence towards health workers is the Development Project that the AKP government wants to implement, and that the reports and proposals of the commissions created under the roof of parliament to fight the doctor and the health workers must be implemented immediately by the government. I also want to make one thing clear, a member of parliament has just expressed: A campaign for our party is being carried out over 30,000 people in Diyarbakir this weekend through a provocative incident in a congress carried out by our party's youth council. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We, first of all, want to say that this provocation, created by downloading the flag, has never bound our party and our youth council in any way.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0034par0147	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0033par0148	Mr. President, I don't think...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0034par0149	We're past two minutes, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0033par0150	Then we'll ask for an additional word on this.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0034par0151	I can't make any additional promises because I just found out from you that there are two minutes today, and I've fulfilled them. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0035par0154	Mr. President, the U.N. accepted the Day of the disabled in 1992, and in 1993, new headlines were opened in the human rights issue concerning the problems of the disabled. So today, we need to address the problem of the disabled as a fundamental human rights problem. The foundation of modern civilization is the idea that every human being is the most valuable being because he is only human, and that all people have equal rights, regardless of language, religion, race, gender. For the first time, the law of the disabled has been passed by the AK PARTY government. The first way to become a modern, developed country is by offering equal opportunities and opportunities to each individual. The only way to do that is to bring our disabled citizens to life and to bring them into society as productive individuals. The number of disabled people was 6,434 in 2002, while the number was raised to 25.563 in 2012. The 15,000 disabled quotas available in the public will be filled as soon as possible. We were employed by disabled persons in the private sector in 2002, and 37,982 disabled jobs were provided today. Important work on our disabled citizens has been going on rapidly in recent years. Companies and home care, Project Hope Houses, Non-blocked Life Center projects have been launched. The service standards of private and public rehabilitation centres are being raised. Your budget for private education, care and rehabilitation services... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0036par0160	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0037par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party, feel that the World Day of the disabled is an important opportunity to address and resolve the problems of the disabled. Of course, it's not just about expressing the problems of the disabled on this day, but it's about finding a solution. As the National Movement Party, we think that removing the obstacles our disabled citizens face should be excluded from any political debate because it is an important component of the Turkish nation's national community's community of solidarity, and very important in terms of social integrity. I salute all of you with a Turkey's wish that this Day of the disabled will be eliminated from any obstacle facing our disableds, that all of our disableds will be happy and their problems will be solved. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0038par0167	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and determine the problems and solution proposals of the fig product that we have provided in addition, we would like to submit a parliamentary examination of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine the measures to be taken. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] 13) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] 15) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] The primordial fig -- the type of drying fig that is sought for quality in the world -- is grown only in Turkey in the Little and Great Menderes basin in the Aegean region. With a 50-55 per cent share in the world's production of dried figs, our country is ranked at the first, with a 60-65 per cent share in the world's dry fig exports. Our country is the world's leader in the production and export of dried figs with the advantage of being an important fig maker of the world. The area of fig farming is the Aegean region, but our province of Aydın is the capital of figs. The high calorie value, mineral matter, and nutrients contain a wide variety of consumption areas of dried figs, a special place between the content and nutrients. In international markets, dried figs are used to produce cakes, as used as snacks, to produce various dishes, to cut bread, to produce sugared mammoths, and to mix fruit. Ethyl alcohol is also produced from low quality, syrup, and scrap figs. The fig seeds that emerge during the production of ethyl alcohol are also considered in the dye, cosmetics, and pharmaceutical industry. 30 percent of the figs produced in our country are fresh in the domestic market, while 70 per cent are consumed in the outer and domestic market as dried figs. The consumption of dried figs has yet to reach the desired level in our country. Annual consumption per person is estimated at between 150 and 200 grams. Fresh fig consumption per capita in our country is about 300 or 500 grams, but it is seen as necessary to increase that amount in terms of our people's adequate and balanced diet and balance in the markets. The biggest trouble with fig exports is with aflatoxin. The failure of companies to pay attention to afflatoxin rates causes problems both in the domestic market and in the external markets, which reflects negatively on the manufacturer. There is no support for the fig manufacturer, but there is no support for the fig manufacturer. It is also stated that the geothermal wells, which have just begun to open, have begun to damage these gardens in the area of Aydın, where the fig gardens are densely dense. The world leadership that our country has lived in figs must not be lost, and the work needed to be done to protect our producers, to identify and resolve the reasons for the problems mentioned above. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly About 70 percent of the world's age production is in China's hands and is playing with prices. So age does not have a price stability in the cocoon. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the arrival of cocoons, raw silk and silk fabrics from the Central Asian Turkish republics, such as Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, at very low prices, is also negative. The resetting of customs funds after the EU and customs union affected the internal market's competitiveness. Terror incidents and migration in the Southeast Anatolian region have led to the end of silk insecticide in this region. In the Thracian region, there was an air-storage struggle, particularly with the ULV system, where silk beetles' poisoning ended here as a result of the effects of the berries. Silk beetles are sensitive to all sorts of chemicals. The pesticides used in the denseness of plant production have also had a negative effect on silk insectism. The development of industry, urbanization and pollution in the Marmara region, and especially in Bursa, has brought silk insectism back to life. The lack of interest in the young generation's silk insectism has also affected the narrowing of their feeding homes because furniture and white objects have also entered the village houses. Because for a box of silk beetles to feed, it needs 25 to 30 square metres of closed space where temperatures and moisture can be controlled. Giving up the breeding of silk beetles also caused the deforestation of berries. Silk insecticide remains an important source of income in our country, especially for our producers living in mountain and rugged areas, whose income level is lower, their land and alternative production areas are limited. In order to avoid disease, nursing homes must be disinfected very well before feeding, and in the feeding period they must be treated with hygiene. Given that a mulberry tree has been productive for at least five years, we need to be supported by our silk insectism to preserve our present potential for berries. Raw silk imports must be acted on the basis of the real need, and additional measures must be taken to prevent illegal access to raw silk, silk, dry cocoons. The silk carpet production and export of our silk insectism must be supported in any way, such as quality and cost. In order to assess our high tourist potential, silky fashion, textile products, and tourist goods may be useful in promoting silk and goods carrying our own brands to export and increase employment and to move silk insectism to areas where monoculture agriculture is made to ensure more balanced dissolution of income. In rural areas with particularly low national income in our country, many of our young girls can get jobs by taking courses in silk carpeting for women. Important contributions to the national economy will also be made to the silk carpet, which is raw material. In France and Italy, where silk insectism is almost never produced, the Research Institutes of Silk Beetlery are still working, and Lyon is the centre of the International Silk Insectification Commission. At the point where this institution, founded by Pasteur's student and has a hundred and twenty-four years of history, represents the historic Silk Road, which has been living in our country for a thousand and five hundred years, and does not end the silk insectism and silk weaving of our Lord Bursa, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, in order to ensure that our country does not give up its own assets and take the necessary measures related to the problems of silk insectism in our country. With all due respect. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Let's go.]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Tunceli]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] 12) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 1963, the Ankara Agreement was signed with the European Union, which began with its application on October 31st 1959, and on October 3, 2005, our EU integration process began on 3 October 2005 as part of its decision to complete membership in the EU as part of the 1999 EU State and Government Presidents Summit. The developments expected over the past six years have been unscheduled, and only one of the 33 topics that should have been closed in talks to achieve the goal of full membership has been closed, and there has been a lack in the political field as part of the EU Progress Report, released on 12 October 2011, and concerns that the reforms needed to achieve the democratic and living standards of the people living in our country could not be implemented in a strong way. As it is known, during the European Parliament's session on 29 March 2012, parliament received Decision 2011/2889 and accepted Turkey's report. The report includes criticism and recommendations from the electoral system to the new constitutional process, from chapters 23 and 24 ▪ to freedom of the press, which should be discussed in full accession talks. The process, which has been blocked by consideration of these criticisms and recommendations, is also necessary to overcome a positive and progressive agenda. For all these reasons, in order to monitor the full accession process with the EU, to take the necessary measures under the accepted report, to investigate the obstacles in the opening of chapters 23 and 24, to overcome these barriers, to determine in what areas and for what reasons the process has come to a halt, to determine areas that need urgent reform and to determine the frameworks of these reforms, with respect to the opening of the Constitution's Council of Turkey, under Articles 104 and 105. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Gaziantep]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Hatay]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] 15) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 18) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] Your information has been presented. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Commission for Public Economic Initiatives also has a membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Friday (December 6th 2013) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly An official delegation to Kırgizistan, in order to convey the Turkish Grand National Assembly's approach to the matter has been implemented in order to ensure that the problems caused by the Covenant on the Principle of the Dair Agreement of the University and the Opposition of the University are not accepted in the Kırgiz Assembly, and that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's approach to the matter can be addressed in accordance with Article 31/10/2013 and its 57th Amendment. In this minval, Turkish-Kyrgyzistan Association Group President and Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Ankara MP Izzet Cet and Zonguldak MP Koksal Toptan are submitted to the draft of the General Assembly on December 4-7 2013 to visit Kırgyzistan on the basis of the 10th Article of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday/12/2013 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 17 June 2013, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan and his friends (3656 rows no. The parliamentary inquiry motion, which was submitted to the Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the problems facing our disabled citizens, was proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and read in the presentations on Tuesday 3/12/2013, and held in the same dated combination of talks. The first statement in favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's Proposal is from Van MP Özdal Threeer. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0039par0357	Mr. President, it's important that our Congress remembers the disabled on December 3rd. I hope that this Parliament will make decisions that will make the lives of the disabled in our country completely easier and make them a standard of living in the honor of humanity. In the hope of making such decisions, we have made a commitment today to address problems with the disabled. On behalf of our group today, Mr. Co-Chair has made statements describing the problems of the disabled and disabled in general. We, too, would like to vote on this proposal by the Parliament, asking that a study be carried out to determine the problems that the disabled have experienced in our country, and as a result of this study, take steps to ensure that all the people in our country live in peace. I hope that all groups will care about this proposal, and we will act in common towards running the House in this direction, and by unanimous agreement, we will accept this proposal and begin to work. Although, we don't have much hope that since power, you'll be inclined to work towards resolving these problems. Because in fact, the list of disabled people with millions of disabled people who haven't seen the problems they've had in 11 years, who haven't heard them in 11 years, who haven't seen them mentally, and who have been away from understanding them mentally for 11 years. Because if not seeing is a disability, why hasn't the government seen this for 11 years? If the problem with mental perception is a state of disability, why didn't the power perceive it mentally? If he hasn't experienced a spiritual maturity and mental problems are a state of disability, then the most fundamental, primaryly disabled, is the power in this country, and we need to solve the disability problem on this basis. We really thought a lot about what we could say about their problems, not insulting them, not insulting them, not insulting them, not insulting them. I hope that with anything we say, we haven't done anything that would hurt or hurt or humiliate them. Because even in statistics, the number of unrealisticly defined disabled people is increasing day by day in our country, and their problems are increasing categorically. Statistically speaking, if you look at the statistics provided by the institutions involved, the number of registered disabled is given at 1,559,222, based on the question motion given by one of our fellow lawmakers. But, in fact, when different statistics are given, according to statistics given by the Office of the disabled and Elder Services, 12.29 per cent of our disabled population. When we adapt 12.29 percent to 75 million, it's about 10 million people. But in response to our MP's question motion of the same ministry, there is a ministry, a government, a general directorate, that does not see the number of disabled people registered at 1,559,222, or about 8.5 million disabled people. In this case, I leave the blind to the public's discretion. A separate mental problem is the perception that the disabled can live on the salary given to the disabled. What kind of mental sense is it to think that the disabled will be able to make a living with a grant paid every three months from 200 to $300 a month -- or paid by choice -- and that they will not be dependent on anyone else, and that I leave it to the discretion of the House, to the discretion of the public. If a person, when looking at our country's economic conditions, inflation values, monetary values, thinks that a disabled person can live with 200-300 lira without needing anyone, he is mentally mentally disabled. On one hand, politics will be done, on the other, demagogy will be done, on the other hand, emotional exploitation will be done, and on the other hand, any practice that will make their lives difficult. Why are there 1.5 million registered disabled people who have 10 million disabled people? Because 8.5 million people still haven't been able to get a human examination in hospitals. Even a lot of healthy people are being victimized at hospital doors, having problems with disabled people, having problems in hospitals when they're getting reports. For some reason, wordings have been perceived as perhaps the main feature of politics. If it is not revealed that a will can solve the problems of the disabled, who have found 10 million in the political concept, to exploit any subject, to deceive others, to deceive others, to show that they have a problem or not, then the Parliament must assess what issues it is disabled in. Yes, this Parliament is both visually impaired, deaf, mentally disabled, and mentally disabled. This Parliament must have a people who can solve the problem of disability. In the presence of this people, we demand that this House be not despised or humiliated by this disabled House. Please, our dear people, do not look down on this disabled parliament, do not look down on the blind government, who has not seen your problems in 11 years, do not despise the mentally challenged government, which lacks the will to solve this problem; do not despise the government of the mentally disabled who has not digested this problem in itself and has not turned it into a spiritual issue. Because this government has ruling classes to serve rather than a people to serve, it has international companies to serve, it has a Gladio system to serve, it has a mob system to serve, it has a gang system to serve. Now, such a disabled government will never, ever do anything for the people who work hard for them. As a matter of nature, he will do nothing to comfort the lives of disabled people, to offer them a life that will suit the honor of mankind. Please, let our people be sensitive about this. I salute the General Assembly in the hope that all obstacles will be eliminated in the hope that all the disabled will be resolved.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0040par0365	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Mr. Celal Dinçer. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0041par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I salute you all. Today is December 3rd, World Day of the disabled. I've taken a stand against the BDP group proposal, but I'll speak in favor. I greet and greet all our disabled citizens. Dear lawmakers, a person's disability should not be a problem for him to live, work, and succeed like other people. It can't be enough for disabled people to just be taken into special protection measures. The important thing is to prepare the means of education for the disabled, to be fused with their own communities, to make infrastructure arrangements to make their lives easier for them, and finally, to ensure that employment conditions are created and actively participate in the economy. The only way to build a peaceful and secure country is to make our disabled citizens an integral part of society. It must be the main goal of states for all disabled citizens to be individuals living, producing, and contributing to social life without need for others. This is also a requirement of the understanding of the social law state. Dear MPs, the third article of the Republican People's Party Charter contains the principle of taking measures that will ensure the participation of those who are involved in social life, keeping in mind that each disabled person has different needs. In this principle, our party programme also states our duties and responsibilities regarding disabled citizens. As part of our understanding of the social state, we consider it a basic human right for disabled individuals to have the resources needed for modern life in any way, and we direct our work accordingly. The Republican People's Party, which aims to overcome every obstacle for the individual's democratic rights and freedom, fulfills its role under the House roof, as it does on every platform to remove obstacles to our disabled citizens. Until now -- as the People's Party of the Republic -- in the 24th term, our party has gathered in a brochure to ensure that disabled individuals, who are part of society, benefit fully and equally from rights and freedoms. In reviewing this brochure, we have proposed 35 laws for the problems of the disabled, we have submitted 16 parliamentary inquiry motions, we have submitted 189 questions, but the government, which was disabled in this matter, as the Hati mentioned earlier - has removed the word "equipped" from our proposals, this research proposals, none of our proposals, this question concerning the problems of the disabled, which has not improved; it has only been the most significant study of the problems of the disabled, by accepting the word "eutentarian" by accepting the word of the vote in this Parliament. Dear friends, it is not a problem for a person to be disabled to live, work, and succeed like other people. Yeah, it's okay, it shouldn't be a problem. But how do these ruling members feel about the disabled, how do they comment? There is no teacher from the disabled. He is appointing a Minister of National Education who says, "There is no teacher from the disabled." For the disabled, we have put you in the position of a man. This MP -- my own colleague -- who has been governor -- has been able to address the disabled as a man. Today, the disabled need to receive reports to identify their disability, so that they can get at least some rights. These reports have become a total torture. Let's say it's 69 points, if it only gets 70 points, then there are dozens of disabled people left with 69 points. These disability reports must be resolved by power as well. You know, there have been various legal arrangements for the disabled since 1981, after the announcement of the Day of the disabled. First, the Prime Minister's Office of the disabled was established with decrees. Later, these administrations were linked to the Bush and the Ministry of Social Security. The head of the disability administration was established. After that, the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2011 was redefined as the General Directorate for Disabled and Older Services. In addition to this formal institutionalisation, our disabled citizens have given the importance of organizing. To that end, they formed many NGOs. At every opportunity, these NGOs visited both ruling members and opposition lawmakers and groups to voice their problems, but so far, as I said above, no significant steps have been taken to resolve these problems. In order to make the social state strong -- I repeat -- it is necessary to provide disabled citizens with an environment where they can work. We must provide the disabled with jobs. He's a disabled person who has to worry about the social state. The social state is the state that protects the disabled, which organises the organization. (CHP) Then the social state is the state that finds jobs for the disabled. And what has our power done? Our government has only been able to get from 40,000 disabled to 25 to 30,000 people. 8.5-9 million, according to some figures, are one and a half million disabled, ignoring 12.5 million disabled people. If we're going to make the social government strong -- again and again -- we need to bring together the environment where the disabled can work. We, the Republican People's Party, make every effort for the disabled at every turn. Our MPs, our mayors, show all the sensitivity to the disabled and welcome the disabled. Today, most disabled elevators do not work in overpasses, subways and such. Yellow bands designed for the visually impaired cause disabled persons to trip over and fall. Our citizens are getting hurt around here because there are no significant measures on the subways related to disabled people. Oddly enough, when it comes to the courthouse, it's not the authorities, it's not the municipalities, it's the disabled citizens. Don't you see, brother? This practice is available for a blind citizen. The new yellow band app, which has been introduced, has been partially or entirely removed from the ground, or has been put in front of many obstacles to prevent its use. Also, even in a few rains, yellow bands that are slippery cause the injuries and even life-threatening dangers of our disabled citizens. Authorities with a large majority today who cannot solve the problems of disabled persons have found the solution to prolonging the law that seeks to resolve the problems of disabled persons, and in this Parliament, the law, which extends a year's sentence to municipalities that do not take measures for disabled persons, has been extended. That's a year's time, it's almost full, but we see that, except for a few yellow bands, no significant steps are taken about the disabled. We, the Republican People's Party, say that we will be with the disabled as we have ever been, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0042par0385	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the final statement belongs to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, the deputy of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0043par0389	Mr. President, I've been promised the National Movement Party Group for the group's proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; I salute you all, your grand delegation. We have 8.5 million disabled citizens living in our country. These gathered in four groups, including world standards, visually impaired, physically disabled, deaf, and mentally disabled. The population of these is 8.5 million. When we negotiate with their families, that number reaches 35 million. So when we use a sentence about disabled people, when there's a TV program about disabled people, half of Turkey's population listens to it. And when we ask the disabled, when we talk to them, when we talk to them, we see that they're all, most of them, rather, a little bit soft here -- they're unhappy, and we understand that. It's possible to see and understand them all when you have these conversations in their own associations, foundations, federation. What should we do? When we think about 8.5 million disabled people and their families, we need to comfort these people, embrace all the problems of the disabled. They have so many big problems that they actually have no problems that can't be solved. This, in this Parliament, in this House, if asked, all will be eliminated, and we can make these laws all together. Their most important subject begins with education. Should the disabled, newly raised, start primary school, start training to boil, or should he study in a private school of his own? We still haven't figured that out. However, should our heavily disabled citizens go to normal schools or private education rehabilitation centres with a few disability features? We still haven't decided that. We have to find a solution to all of this right now. We have to put our hands together and deal with all of these problems because they're disabled, they're a big part of our country population, if we rethink them with their families. However, one of the most important issues is, let's say he finishes school -- let's say he also finishes college -- is to provide employment. According to our current meri laws today, the private sector -- based on the condition that a certain job is employed -- has to run a disability of 3%, the state must run 4 per cent. When we look at it today, even in our ministries, our positions, which we have expressed in thousands, are empty. We have to put these disabled citizens in place, to help them maintain their lives. Why, for some reason, are these staffs idle, and why are they not assigned to the disabled? Again, one of his biggest problems, however, is to receive a report from the hospital to prove that the disabled are disabled. The report from one hospital is completely different from the report from another hospital. Let's say he gets his disability report, and at some point he's relieved because it proves he's disabled. His report means nothing if he can't prove he's disabled. Again, if he wants to get into a normal business life, if he's applying for a job, they say: "You're disabled." But he says, "I didn't get my report." Since he couldn't get his report, there's no telling what kind of disability he's got, no doubt he's unstoppable. Here's what we propose as the National Movement Party Group: let's form a reporting group that is qualified in a joint hospital in Turkey, where our expert doctors will start working as an authority to determine how disabled and how uninterrupted a citizen is, and let's get rid of this big problem because our disabled people are waiting for this. With these, their biggest problem is sports. Our four disabled groups also have the heads of the sports federation, established in 2000. These are the President of the Physically disabled Sports Federation, the President of the Blind Sports Federation, the President of the Sports Federation of the Deaf, and the President of the Special Sports Federation of Sports. There's nothing they can't accomplish when we can afford the disabled. Just like in education, as in social life, when we think about what it means to contribute to the economy, there's nothing that disabled people can't accomplish when they're given the opportunity to do sports. It's not even sincere to detect it from the medal they've received, really, to boast of the medals they've received. With great sacrifice, our federations, our Federation heads, our governments, families, trainers, when our schools work together, there is no success, and as a result, many worlds, Europe, the Olympics and the paralympics, the Turkish disabled have succeeded and will continue to succeed. The important thing here is to give them the opportunity. They get these achievements, they're pretty good, but unfortunately -- I'm sad to say -- there's sometimes none in the press, and sometimes there's little puntos, and here's the success of the disabled. Sometimes we even hear that there are sports of the unstoppable! Is there any of this? Unfortunately, we have citizens. Before I became an MP, I served four terms as president of the Federation of Turkey's Blinds, secretary general of international organisations, member of the Executive Board of the Turkish Paralympic Committee, and as Head of As. So we lived with the disabled for about eight, ten years, laughed with their parents, were happy with success, or sad together. So I'm a friend who really knows what these disabled people are thinking, what they're waiting for to accomplish. Now, these are the opportunities that I've been trying to tell you all along that we have to give to the disabled. In 2005, our Law No. 5378 came out. This law came out of Parliament, which included a seven-year period. During that time, this law, which has been established at the point of living our disabled people's lives, their daily lives, their entrances to apartments, their entrances to business centers, and their way of walking on the road, unfortunately, has not been corrected, it hasn't been done, and it will eventually be extended for three more years, and it has been extended by 2015. I wish the majority of our municipalities had followed that, and the roads would have been made in a way that our disableds could walk, sustain their lives, if our transport vehicles had been carried out in a nationally healthy way, would have been a huge plus for our disableds, but today we see that, unfortunately, there's not a lot of ways to say about this -- except for some of our sensitive mayors. One of the biggest flaws, however, is that in Turkey, one of the main points of access to the mental cars of our physical disabled, our physical disabled. Unfortunately, these electric cars are imported from abroad, and their prices are very expensive. In my speech last year, I said, "Let's get an incentive, let's get these mental cars produced in Turkey." But I'm afraid there's been no sound. The value of a country's disability shows the country's degree of development. Today, 35 million -- when we discuss with the disabled -- with their families -- if they're unhappy, if they can't get what they want from this state, this government, there's a problem here. We need to re-examine this, and we need all the resources we can get here. With an uninterrupted wish for a world, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0044par0405	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Gürsoy Erol. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0045par0409	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute our General Assembly. Today is December 3rd, World Day of the disabled. Therefore, I would like to express my satisfaction again as such an issue has come up in our House. Of course, our heart is not only in days, but in three hundred and sixty-five days the same way that this sensitivity has been shown, and at this point, the obstacles to the disabled have been reduced to as little as possible. Now, of course, when you say "blocks," we owe thanks to each of the services in the country in the past, one by one, but it's an important calendar for the disabled in 2005 because in 2005, a first time was made in Turkey, and the Law for the disabled was issued for the disabled. All the parties here -- there were parties that weren't here for that day -- but that was a law that came out with an alliance of no distinctions inside and out -- but to this day -- in order to deliver a right, rather, by 2005, such a law in the sense of law, was not present in our Assembly, but that such legislation was probably very important for Turkey and the disabled, and at this point, our Parliament was very important to the work that it had done, but at this point, I appreciate the serious step our government has taken in Turkey. There were a number of substances in this law, from discrimination to the field of education, home care, employment, but in 2010, along with a separate referendum, you know, anything that can be done for the disabled has been guaranteed in terms of the Constitution, and at this point, there has been a serious step in order to ensure that the disabled are not severely discriminated against in both legal and constitutional terms at the point of discrimination, and that no change can be prevented. There are a lot of things in the law -- for example, in many ways -- in the law here today -- I'm going to say one: about the parking lot, we put it into the law, so instead of a handicap, when a person parks in an empty parking lot, he pays twice the normal punishment, but when we come to practice it, how many people know it or how many people do it? Even in shopping malls, we all live up close, and because the handicapped place is empty in the front, people are trying to use it first. So, at this point, we need a mental transformation first, so I think we need a serious mental transformation every step of the way, from the point of view of the disabled, from the point of view of people who are not disabled. In 2005, I was in Parliament at the time, doing one-on-one work, and at a very serious point, these disability reports, for example, are being expressed today. There's a series of statements written by the prime minister and the ministry, about the disabled, about prioritizing their disability reports, about providing ease for the disabled there, but unfortunately, that's not what happens when we look at the application. The practitioners there have many challenges for us, our disabled brothers and sisters, because after their search for disabled brothers, we then called the chief physicians, and we even reminded them of them many times, even faxed them to them, and they were made easy on our disabled brothers and sisters. So, first of all, the appliances, at this point, are going to have to really respect what's written in the law. There was a serious name for the training we brought in. There's talk of training here today. The education, the BUG-KUR people and the green card holders were not able to benefit that day, but with a change in the law, by taking the Ministry of National Education budget, I am today. Every child who says, "I am blocked." This is an opportunity for education, and that number is now close to 300,000 in our country. In addition, the first time that we have brought home care, with the care of the institution, with the care of our families, what will happen to my child after I die? This is where we tried to search for the answer of a number that is approaching the 500,000s today to receive home care at home with his family and try to support families by taking a minimum wage from the state. Now, with all that's out there, I personally regret some of the talks here: I'd like to express that I don't find the government's statements right. For one thing, I think it's a huge injustice to ourselves and to the government, because all of this has been done so far, so far, when we've been talking about these disabled people, the serious steps taken in ten years, the four times the amount of employment that our Group Vice President has just given us, and five times the amount that we've established, and when we're thinking about our brothers and sisters, let's not do this to ourselves or to our government, to our government, to our power, to do this injustice. So, first, let's make this transformation in the mind of healthy individuals, and then look at where our country came from in a decade, where our disabled brothers and their families are going through this, and at this point at least we haven't done that wrong. At the point of access, we're having serious trouble, right? We've been interviewing the municipalities over and over and over again, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has made some very serious information at this point, but yet some sensitive municipalities are taking steps, but some municipalities do not insist on making a move. Now, at this point, you'll appreciate that not all 3,000-odd municipalities in Turkey are AK PARTY municipalities. I mean, it's not fair to just make those who show this insensitiveness look like an AK PARTY person. At this point, unfortunately, we all have to admit that there are people from every party who don't have a very serious level of sensitivity and that the disabled make their job more difficult. But just so we know, the mission is all of us. I mean, it's up to all of us right now to correct every mistake, every injustice, in the name of the disabled, just as we voted out in Parliament. Because it's not a matter of one party, it's the work of 70 million people in our country, everyone and the Parliament here, and it's ours. First of all, we have to take the lead in this work, and we have to work together to solve the problems that have happened. At this point, especially if we ask our disabled brothers to understand their laws and rights, let them look for their rights at this point. The disabled families also need serious education. At this point, our ministry is conducting new studies, and at this point, it has initiated awareness studies for disabled families. At this point, we will raise awareness of the families and learn the rights of our disabled brothers and sisters, and we will all join hands in order to remove these obstacles. If we do, I believe we'll all be more comfortable with an unstoppable Turkey. The employment, of course, is the most important problem and the most important problem of the disabled, but the numbers have just been given; there's a number in the public that reaches 25,000 from 5,000 to 15,000, and it's a number that falls under 15,000. Here, with Turkey, and the first in the world, the Paralyzing Officer Test, this opening will be closed and the second will be repeated in 2014, and the effort will be made at the point where the number will be reduced to zero. Our main goal is for the disabled to stand up on their feet, the disabled to deliver his own bread to his family, and at this point, the honorable, the honorable, the disabled individuals who support their families with bread, the ones we all desire and the disabled ones we all miss in Turkey, the ones we all miss in the world. I believe that if we all join hands at this point, we will take very serious steps to overcome obstacles to the disabled. I always thank the friends who work with their opposition, with their power, but I know a debt of gratitude to our power and to our Prime Minister, especially with no disability Act, to begin during the mayoral term, and then to thank him again for his great support during the prime minister's term, and to say, "Let our future be unstoppable." I respectfully and respectfully salute our high House.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0046par0423	Thank you, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0047par0424	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit01spe0046par0425	Okay, I'll call you. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party Group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 24th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with its 1st ranked First Amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The Ministry of Health and Connected Institutions placed in the 3rd ranking Ministry of Health and Companies' Full Time Work and Some Law Orders, İstanbul MP Mr. Mahmut Tanal Nahe; Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı and 16 MPs; İstanbul Student for Health Services and Helping Health Services; İstanbul MP, Mr. Mahmut Tangin and Mr. Tanzin and Mustafa Sezcu's Co-Officier's Order to Make Changes in the Laws and Some Laws; Negotiations on Organis and Dokumsimisations, and Al-Makli's Laws Proposal on Laws for Al-Biography; İstanbul MP. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed in 480 and 480. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Demir Çelik wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0048par0019	Mr. President, my esteemed fellow lawmakers, I wish you all the best of evenings by greeting you on behalf of myself and my party. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been brought to the attention of our commission in the late days of November as a night raid similar to the previous practices. On that day, we, who were in opposition to the relevant bill on our agenda, to the controversial NGO, democratic mass organisations and political parties at the same time, voiced our criticism as both administrative and political and social and cultural approaches. It was seen on that day that, above all, the expected measure of this law should be based on the satisfaction of health workers, especially on the patient, while it should be based on a cognitive mentality which brings out satisfaction in this way, but with a different, centralist approach and understanding, this law suddenly came to the commission, as well as with the Commission, with the General Kurula. On that day, my friends from the Medical Association, the Dental Medicine Association, the Association of Pharmaceuticals and the Nurses' Association also expressed themselves. The bill was passed to them 24 hours earlier, the day before the invitation to the commission meeting. These friends of ours, who were called quickly before they could concentrate, their criticism, their suggestions, their suggestions, their criticisms, in order not to go too far ahead, despite all else, but also to show their positive contribution. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, have criticised the problem, the goal and the need for a change of the law, as a result of these wrong approaches, both in style and fundamentally. First of all, today's democracy is to be open to dialogue, (x) 480 and 480 (e.g. 1st Ek S). Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Given the quality, the respectability of the negotiations, and in this sense, it was necessary for all concerned parties to discuss the problem in a manner of generality and fundamentally, to give them an opportunity in a process in which they partnered, to remain behind the common will of that joint decision. All these processes didn't happen, they didn't happen. The legal changes in health and health, which we will discuss in health and in health, have been incomplete in this sense, far from democratic. Depending on antidemocratic practices and numbers and majority, the ruling party is seeking to pass this agenda. These laws and so on have been passed and passed in our 90-year-old Republic history. For 90 years, before the AKP's rule, I will stab health dozens of times. I'm going to solve the problem with radical changes. If the governments who have claimed that they can't solve the problem, if they can't prevent gangrene, then the AKP's power, especially during the eleven-year period of power, will take care of its health, I'll take care of it. From here, it can be said: Why is all this being done? So, with a failure to create an alternative to a political power that has been in power for 11 years, the fact that it sees itself as having the right to occupy society and society's agenda, first of all, it is necessary to highlight that it is incompatible with democracy and is not at peace with it, but it is our duty to invite them to the truth, so we will continue to say our thoughts, our criticisms from this platform. Minister, in that sense, I'd like to stress that our criticism should be taken into consideration with your awareness of the problem. Yes, for 90 years, the parliament is not doing its primary duty because we are moving in a hurry and understanding of the needs of society, rather than meeting the basic needs of society, because we are approaching the problem of the strict, centrist, hierarchical relationship of the nation's unit state. We continue to occupy the agenda with some palliative solutions that save the day rather than a perception based on freedom, democracy, partnership, dialogue, negotiation, and peace. We don't have the right, we don't have the luxury. Yes, health is important. Health is one of the basic needs of society as well as an individual, and we don't deny it. Health can confront us with a number of needs that must be changed every day and every day in order to meet the new needs of social dynamics revealed in this sense, but will they be based on the needs of the patient, the individual and the community, or will the neoliberal policies of global imperial forces be a relationship based on the interests of some of the financial institutions, some of the monopolys, some of the trusts? That's where we have to decide. If what we call health is the state of political and social well-being as spiritual and physical as it is, then it is the duty of the House to make legal arrangements based on the well-being of the community as well as the individual here, which means that it is the duty of the community to bring legitimacy to the work. We stand by that understanding and we stand by it, but if it's not society that's at stake, instead of society, we're against it, if some small interest is to increase the resources, increase the resources of its environments, grow, harvest the needs of society and society, then we're against it. Anyone who says, "I am a human being beyond us, " must also be a responsible person. In this respect, yes, the history of the 90-year-old Republic of Turkey has been the scene of many changes, proposed by the law, witnessed, and similar practices will continue. In 1945, after World War II, the world evolved into a social system of policy and social traumas in order to treat, rehabilitate, improve, social state policies. This is a socialization that allowed society to meet its basic needs on legitimate grounds, but began in the 1970-1975s with Reagan, the father of neoliberal policies. From there to a sense of the needs of an anti-social, non-social, hegemonic, and hierarchical relationships that continue from the power of global imperial forces at that time to the present day, our world is rapidly evolving, our global future. It's good to see that. In that sense, the last 30 years, the past 40 years, health has also been transformed into a commodity, a commodity, which has been bought and sold in the market. It's more marketed, commercialized, subcontractorized than what society needs. Instead of a sense of goodness, which serves them well, strengthening their welfare, it leads to the growth, machete of the existing hegemonic power, while the individual and society are negatively influenced from it. Mr. President, in that respect, Turkey has been quickly prepared for the impact of these neoliberal policies since the 1980s, especially in the September 12, 1980 military coup, which is still not over. For the past 11 years, the AKP's government has also been able to get away from the position of this neoliberal global empire, Turkey and the regional extension; rather, a part of the practice that serves it, which is obviously very eager to do so, is signed every day and every day. First of all, private hospitals that have risen from the age of public hospitals, as a product of privatisation, have reduced the quality of commercialized health care in this sense, in our cities, in our streets, and in our fields, every day, and have also led to a number of attempts to exploit public service, which have been bought and sold with bills inflated in this sense. As if that wasn't enough, the search for a number of problems and problems that health workers, including the Full-Day Law, have suffered over the years, continues to be the reason for a new agenda every day. See, the most basic problem, such as health, is that when it is reduced to the individuality of physicians who run their academic careers in college, it is not health, it is health. The practice, based on some of the interests of physicians in the academic position, puts us in a situation far from seeing society, away from the needs of society and society. Yes, it is important that society's health care, health care, can be maintained, and health care can be afforded, but it is meaningful when it is accessible, qualified, without money, and in the native language. When you reduce the changes and changes you will make in the field of health and the changes you call "reform" from those traits, instead of fulfilling the health function, it will serve only the marketed, commercialized one. In that sense, health practices that will serve the welfare of society, yes, should be brought to the agenda of the House without delay, but the Parliament should not be transformed into the grounds and space that are based on the needs and interests of a narrow section, with a temporary portion of solutions. What's fundamental is 76 million, the future of 76 million, it's in the interest of its spiritual, physical, political, and social well-being. What we need to do, we need to deal with it, and the historical role that we need to carry on, should be an equivalent form of kindness, but with what we want to be brought in, we encourage people to race in the qualityless ministry under the name "performance measurement measurement." We're coming from a point where the money he's going to make is going to grow, but it's not going to do him any good, it's not going to do him any good, it's going to get more patients in the treatment, it's going to get more patients, it's going to get a little bit of a day-and-a-month benefit from patients that he can access, and it's going to make his life easier for him. That is a sin, a sin. Yes, the physician is the most essential profession of the cure, but it's the person we're talking about. When human health is transformed into a tool and a tool to provide for the physician's interests, we make a human being an object. If the subject is the actor, the actor, the actor of change and transformation, then the health of man must be the public duty before anyone else. In this sense, the public is a situation in which health workers -- primarily physicians -- instead of providing them with their rights to improve their social rights through the patient -- instead of using the patient to put a portion of their work into a race that they created from the patient, instead of putting it into a race that was intended to share it with the patient, the doctor may have an active job, which he has already acquired, but he may have had a role in the community, rather than a performance measure of performance -- rather than the size and anxiety of return capital. In this sense, instead of eliminating the welfare of society, it should be the perception that makes them strong, to a maximum extent, to be physicians from health workers. An example of the inconsistencies in today's approach to the problem is possible in the 2014 budget, which will be on our agenda the day after tomorrow. Look, in one country, the biggest indicator of whether or not that country's budget is spent on non-war sources is budgets. 45 per cent of the 2014 budget is thought to go to financial services, Finance Ministry and current expenditures, 13 per cent are thought to spend security, including military and police, the closest number is 12 per cent of the Ministry of Education, but when it comes to health care, it is also in a position from the budget of many ministries, many general managers. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, health budget spending in 2014 with a 4 per cent share is a total of expenditures envisioned at public hospitals and public health centres. Imagine how our society today's psychological, social, and political traumas can reach and achieve the goodness that I've just counted with a four-percent share. How can the foreseeable spending of treatment meet reasonable and human demands? Far from it, however, the gas, gas bombs, fighter planes, tanks, cannons, billions of dollars... as we've come to a point in the past 30 years with a trillion dollars to buy this country's future and its freedoms and its freedoms... and we've come to a point in the future, and we've moved on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and With that mentality, an honorable peace, which we long for, the free tomorrows that we long for, are postponed again, repatriated, contrary to the spirit of democracy, dialogue is not based on that meaning. The problem with self-centered understandings and approaches that lack of negotiation has been postponed to the pleasure of the Prime Minister, who is the head of government. It's a shame, it's a sin. In that sense, the growing needs of the dynamic structure called society should not be diverted by our arbitrary approaches, by some of our own relative approaches. What you call society, when it doesn't reach its political and social status, can be the cause of chaos and crisis. This crisis can be economical, this crisis can be political. Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in this respect, yes, Turkey is at a crossroads. Is Neoliberal policy based on a relationship based on existing, existing, social dynamics, insisting on not seeing society through the perception and mentality that it has made for 90 years, forcing itself on administrative, political approaches in spite of society, and in this way trying to live itself in the strict, centralistic, authoritarian mind? We have to decide that. This is an opportunity, when we're on the eve of 2014, and we're considering the choice of local governments that we're going to have four months later, first of all the political autonomy of regional governments, a country open to administrative, financial autonomy of local governments, and a political perspective that creates the mentality of that country, and we're going to be able to see the quality of health within it, free, accessible education in the native language, but when we don't get close to it, we're going to create enemies today as well as we did yesterday, with the fears and the fears of the phobias we created and the psychological barriers that we have, while we're running away from society, we're running away from its mind. In this respect, the country must approach with everything, right now, at an untenable point, with an approach based on peace and freedom, I offer respects.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0049par0038	Thank you, Mr. Steel. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atı. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Pitcher, a very strong applause has arrived.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0050par0042	Thank you for...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0051par0043	He deserves it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0052par0044	Not at all, Mr. President, we're ashamed of our teacher.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0053par0045	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0054par0046	Thank you very much. Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the 480 rows of Health Ministry and the Government of Companies, and on behalf of the Constitutional Charter for Changes in Some Laws. I salute all lawmakers who realize public health rights are not for sale, who do not intend to profit at the risk of public health, who do not insult health workers, who oppose the exploitation of the labors of health workers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Minister, may I remind you that the number of my fellow bureaucrats behind you in discussing such an important matter is about twice as high as the number of AKP MPs. This is an indication of how much your government cares about this matter. I'm sorry to have to express this painting. [[A round of applause from CHP, MPP and BDP rows]] My dear friends, we are gathered today to correct Judgement No. 663, which was again born illegitimate and crippled. It has been corrected many times, tried to correct it, many times, addeds, deductions were made, and it has not happened because it was already born illegitimate in the Court of Law No. 663; while parliament was open, the AKP's government had issued a decree on the legislature, looking in the eyes of MPs in the parliament's eyes. So, do you think we'll be able to correct this illegitimate law today? The answer is simple: no, we won't. Because it's a judgment that's a born cripple, so you might say that this injury is basically a genetic problem in medicine, and that's a big part of the law now. This bill, this new bill, this bag of legislation, or, as the public calls it, Full-Day Law, if it's accepted, believe me, even lawmakers who have surrendered their souls to their presidents will suffer remorse. Because this bill creates inequalities in the field of health, because this bill contains provisions that will actually destroy medical and dental schools, and this bill contains substances that will make health workers hostile to one another. I'm going to try to share with you what these substances are in my speech and in our further motions. My dear friends, this bill is not in accordance with the law because many of the articles that the Constitutional Court has annulled have been brought back to life by the Constitutional Court. This bill is not reasonable either. I'll tell you in a moment, and you'll agree with me, this bill is not appropriate for a conscience at all. Since the government came to power, the government has been implementing an imported project for 11 years under the name transmutation in health. The former Minister of Health had already agreed that this project was imported, and by translating a book imposed on him by the World Bank, he began to apply it step-by-step in Turkey, and you know that this translation book was our former Minister of Health. Unfortunately, this project was not designed to improve public health, but to trade through public health. What will the World Bank think? Of course trade will think about it. In the days when the AKP government came to power, it was on its way to address problems in our health care system. You know when some of my fellow lawmakers who came out, who had nothing to do with health, used to say, "Was health so good?" We said, "No, it wasn't good, you got the vote to fix it, but you did worse." We said, "Here's what you said when you were on the road." You said, "Change in health." You put it back in your language these days. Oh, don't, for God's sake, if you're going to make my transformation in education look like a transformation in health, don't turn it at all. On the way, you said -- your other motto, along with the transformation in health -- was poor health. At the end of 11 years, what we've come to is that you're going to be examined by any doctor at any hospital with a population wallet. You said, "Is that true?" Yes, that's right, you did. Well, has it been implemented? Absolutely not. I'm afraid you're in a position to receive prescription money from a family physician, even from a prescription prescribed by a former medical examiner. So the physicians, exposed to your big accusations, receive money for knives. From every prescription they write, they are now making money for the government. You'll go to every doctor, as long as you have a birth certificate. You said, "You've opened private hospitals only to those who pay attention today." If there's someone who can't make a difference, he certainly can't take advantage of it. So if you don't have the money, you're going to die. You've got a way with the account, you're going. If that's not true... We really have a long time. As I understand it, with your motion, we'll work until the end of the day, we'll work tomorrow, if it's not done, Friday... Mr. Secretary knows we like to work, Monday, Saturday, Sunday...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0055par0059	The Minister of Health is gone, the Minister of Twitter is here!
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0054par0060	Maybe. It doesn't matter, they're all the same. In all honesty, if there are people here who say otherwise, we'll go out and talk to them. My dear friends, at the end of 11 years, you have forgotten the health of the people as AKP people, ignoring the problems of a large majority of the people -- the issues of protective medicine -- in order to look cute to those with money. Look, I'm trying to explain to you what's really going on behind everything I say. For these reasons, epidemics such as polio and measles have re-creased this country. We're last in the number of sick beds in Europe. Well, since we've identified it, let's treat it, increase the number of beds. Instead of increasing the number of beds, we're putting our people to sleep with the legend of the city hospital to heal their beds. In other words, die in good beds. You've started healing beds, healing rooms, as you say. But physicians know very well that patients are treated by rooms, not beds, but by medical staff. Are we good with the number of nurses per patient? We're not. In terms of the number of nurses, we are the last of Europe. What should we do? We need to raise more qualified nurses. What did you do? You're trying to close this gap with the high school nurses. I mean, the diagnosis is right, the treatment is wrong. You're making the right diagnosis because the people are screaming, but your treatments are wrong. I mean, when you're making eyebrows, you're making eyes. We have the most low pregnancy in Europe, Turkey. I mean, these kids die in the womb, and the children who die in the womb aren't murder, and the prime minister describes the C-section as murder. No physician, no MP, does not defend the C-section from this stand, or anywhere else, because it is wrong, because the C-section is not a good thing, but it is possible to describe the C-section as a murder, which is in one word, ignorance. So people shouldn't talk about things they don't know. The most doctors in Europe are in Turkey. Why? We don't know. There could be several reasons. Each of our citizens goes to a doctor on average eight times a year. Why? Did the AKP make our citizens sick? The reason for this is that either AKP health policies made people sick or AKP health policies prevent doctors from treating them well. That's why we have the maximum number of applications for the doctor. No, it's not about facilitating access to a doctor, it's about getting a lot of people to go to doctors and make a lot of money. We have the most people going to the E.R. again, so we're looking at the world average, the most people going to the E.R. are our citizens again. Do you know why they're going to the emergency room? Because of you, if they go to the clinic, they pay, when they go to the clinic, they pay. They're waiting in the middle of the night, going to the emergency room because they're paying. You noticed it, you diagnosed it, you said, "Yes, we need to change that." What does a smart person do? What if these citizens, poor people, come in the middle of the night, so as not to pay, I could at least remove the money from the clinic. What did you do? You brought the concept of a green field into the ER. It's right in the AKP, it's right in your head. So you said: "My child, if you have a stomach ache, come and I'll see." If it's appendicitis, I won't charge for an emergency exam, but if it's gas pains, I'll charge for an emergency examination. Now, when a citizen comes to the emergency room, how will he know whether the abdominal pain is from appendicitis or gas pains? I'm a kid's professor, and I don't know if that kid has gas or appendicitis without examining or testing. If anyone knows, let them come. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. So, I'm going to record the patient, I'm going to examine him, I'm going to ask for an exam, I'm going to ask for a test, I'm going to click on the green button over there -- because of you -- and it's going to be right down to the citizen's medical bill, prescription fee, everything. So this is the answer from God? And that's why your diagnosis, yes, may be true, but you're having a very difficult time treating it, and since you're taking the wrong treatments, this patient is not getting any better. At the 2013 budget talks, we are underfunded to make new patient beds. So we're going to build new hospitals for construction companies, and we're going to rent them. You said, "The famous urban hospital story." So you've agreed to pay 100 million rent a year for a hospital that you've already bid on for 300 or 400 million. How many years? 30 years. So you're going to be able to build this hospital in five years with that rent, and now, 30 years -- which was 49 years, with our intervention, the new Minister of Health reduced it to 30 years -- you're going to pay 100 million dollars a year. Well, it's a sin, isn't it? Now, who's gonna go to these hospitals? People can't go because they can't pay the difference, they can't be treated in these hospitals because they can't pay the difference. So, how are these hospitals going to get back? He'll be back with taxes from people who can't go there. So your health is just as good as your money. If you don't have the money, you'll die. You've taken the situation, you've brought it to the city hospitals. It's a real shame about our people. Now, about today's bill. So this was a summary of what you were doing. Now, let me try to sum up what you're going to try to change with today's bill. I wish you'd never brought him back, and I wish he'd stayed the way he was. Now, let's take a look at this bill first. At the end of June, he brought this bill to the commission, the commissioner, and put it before many laws pending in the commission. Okay, maybe, our government sensed an emergency and put the bill forward, reasonable, fine. We were forced to discuss this bill in two days. Aman, the future, we must remove this. We quickly began the negotiations of the bill. So, what happened when we objected? The more I object, the more some of the MPs said, "That's not what happened. It's not what happened." In fact, Mr. Minister of Health, even he showed his maturity to say yes, let's think about it again. It's a virtue, congratulations, really. He said to at least some of our objections, "Friends, let's review this." Well, time? They said: 'Trust us.' When we bring this to the General Assembly, at that time, we will reassess it, and we will find a proper solution, and we will shape it into a form where your consciences will not be disturbed. We have taken the Minister's word and passed through the commission. Then what happened? That bill just couldn't get here. Tried to bring in supplements, this one, this one. No, it's health, it'll come straight, we'll talk, brother. We said, and they couldn't bring the bill. I mean, he waited four months for this bill. This bill, which was compressed in two days and made us work like crazy, stood on the shelf for exactly four months. Then what happened? Next thing we know, it's on the General Assembly agenda. Good, good. We're going to talk, and suddenly he's gone back to the commission. Upsy-daisy! We said, "Thank God he's going to fix it." We said AKP people, but unfortunately, it didn't work out the way we thought it would. The AKP has again done what it would do and has now become a bill on the commission, which includes worse, bigger mistakes, heavier substances than it was at the first panel meeting. And this law is not called the full day. For God's sake, don't call it the full day, my fellow AKP doctors.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0056par0072	Half a portion.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0054par0073	I mean, it's a shame. You're all respectable people, you're all important people in your profession, so don't go out and make people laugh at you. I don't want anyone laughing at a doctor friend of mine. It's not called day by day, don't say day by day, not even Mr. Health Minister. Now, let's keep looking at what you bring in this bill. This bill, which you call "the full day," was never implemented in any way on your time, and it began to be chewed like gum, and now, unfortunately, you're making special applications for your supporters, your loved ones. Well, aren't we always, as you call it, just criticizing and offering suggestions? We're trying. It's in the name of the law. By doing a serious study, how to do it full-time, how to do it, we've made it 26 articles, and we've presented it to you. When? Two years ago. Did you discuss a single clause in the commission? No, you didn't. Not a single clause came into the commission in any way. We shouted, "Do not sell the private knowledge of the sick, but do not disclose it." In the long run, you finally understood what we meant, and you said, "Okay, we'll get the information, but not the patient's name. We're going to write the patient's name as x. We've already accepted the letter x. We're going to put the letter "x" in Turkish, and we're not going to use the patient's name. This is good, good, but remember: Two years ago, the hackers entered the Family Medicine Information System and took our intimate knowledge of all parents, spouses, children. What is our spiritual life, what is our sexual life, what kind of things we eat, what kind of drugs we take, what kind of drugs we use, all of which we use in birth control, all of them -- not just me, but everyone, including yours, the Minister's -- my friends -- and there is still no law in this country to protect private information, personal information, you can't get it out. If you had taken it out, maybe those hackers wouldn't have stolen it. They also sold the information they stole, sold it by name. The Minister of Labor also sold the information he collected. He says he sells anonymously, says he sold it. I sold it to a TV, sold it cheap, sold it for 250, and next time it's worth 10 times that. I sold it anonymously. I say, Mr. Secretary, don't sell it, don't sell my personal information anonymously. What is my religion, how is my marriage going, what is there in my spirit world, who is the father of my child; who is the father of my child; who is none of my business, these are my business, and you told me not to sell that information. Unfortunately, we couldn't tell the Minister. In one of the provisions of the bill, the Minister determines who will be assigned to which staff, which seems to be very natural, but my dear friends, you can't dictate everything by law. There was a gym teacher recently appointed head of Düzce University. Now, was that against the law? It wasn't, but what happened? The mind, the witness, the logic, the conscience didn't take it away, and the chief of staff, this teacher, had to resign. Now, didn't the AKP government see that? Now a government that cares about the local government, a government that cares about management in its place, reconnects everything to the Minister. In another article -- look, put your hand on your conscience -- you're referring to jet professors. You're saying that I'm going to take a friendly, friendly doctor I like, and I'm going to make a professor of college, and the next day, I'm going to do it again, and I can do it in private from here. I'm a conscientious person, and I'm going to count the time spent here as a professor. Something much more important: you say full-time, you let half the professors in every major science study work in a private hospital. What kind of understanding is that? 5 percent of what happened the last time, would it be 10 times as surprised as the scale, 10 times that? You've raised 5 per cent to 50 per cent. There's one thing you're going to do much more on your conscience, which is to forgive those of you who are obliged to flee the country. Look, everyone puts their hands on their conscience. You ask the doctors who have gone abroad to graduate and not do mandatory service, and you say: "I will forgive you. " This will not fit in any conscience, no faith, no precious friends, in any way. So we have a lot to talk about in this bill. I tried to tell you that with a bird's eye, we'll talk more. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0057par0083	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Öz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0058par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the bill of law to change certain laws by the State of the Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Health and the Offices of the United States. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, Code 663, or, in fact, the Supreme Assembly of the State of Turkey, under what circumstances is it legally stated that it should use the ordinance under the rule of law, although, unfortunately, it has not been properly used by the Supreme Assembly. The fact that we've seen this as a result of the appeal we have made as the National Party of Actions to the law, to the law, to the law, to the amendment of the provisions that came to the commissions and Parliament several times later. Of course, it's a law that has been victimized by a decree in law enforcement, which we consider a victim who has returned the rights of the people we consider to be the victim, who has returned the rights of the victims, especially with a final motion that the assistants of those who continue to be assistants in medical schools, especially while the assistants of those who continue in medical schools continue to serve in the same place that they have been appointed, and that they should not be cut off from the university until they've been appointed. So, I'd like to start by saying thank you to the government for listening to our warnings on this matter. The real problem with medicine today is not being able to do good and honorable medicine. The government's job is to prepare conditions that suit our profession. Therefore, the problem will never be solved by the Full - Day Law. Dear lawmakers, when we examine the bill for the full day, there's nothing rational about putting it into the law in the schools of education and research, there's a difference at the Gulhane Military Academy of Medicine, and there's nothing rational about putting it in college hospitals in a different way. It's important to say that those who serve as professors or professors at the Gulhane Military Medical Academy are not allowed to perform a free profession outside of the country in any way. In educational and research hospitals and hospitals associated with the Ministry of Health and universities, the right is granted to professors by the authority of the Council of Ministers. And what kind of arrangement is it in colleges that we can call it... that when you first brought it to the commission, you said it was 5%, and then -- which forces, in an uncertain way -- which hands come in -- there's nothing that makes sense in the actual sense that you've raised it to 50 percent. By what criteria do we know that you cannot express this 50 percent in the commissions, according to which criteria you have been imposed on you? This is not the right approach, this is not the right practice. The university professor has already made his decision in order to practice free market medicine or to work at a public hospital, or to continue as an academic at the university. The main goal of the professors here... is to commercialise health, and how do they see more money in their pockets? In Turkish medicine, in terms of healthcare, in which the students should be raised, in what scientific research, in which they should be raised, in which they should be raised more quality, more qualified, in the main agenda of all of us. We, as the Nationalist Movement Party, have continued to insist that we are not opposed to the way the Full-Day Law was applied in other areas, but that the Full-Day Law, in an environment of teaching staff at university hospitals, is a privilege or a privilege that is granted to all of them, without any distinction. In this arrangement to run physicians under the Full Day Law, we have expressed every time that there will be chaos at universities, which teachers will make promises to whom to perform a free profession, who to convince, who to convince, and who to worry about. Here, I would like to present to you that we're going to turn this around wrong, so believe me when this arrangement is taken back to the Constitutional Court, it's a violation of the principle of equality, so it's going back again. Look, at this time of the evening, in June, we're going to grow it in two days. You say you've brought it to the commission very quickly, but then when it comes to the General Assembly, we're going to make some arrangements. You'll see that we're wasting the time of the House and the commissions when you finally have to pull it back from the commission. It has been made clear by the regulations you want to make in this law that you have not heeded our words, even though we have already stated that there are some victims involved in these regulations under the law. As I mentioned here in the beginning, it's really admirable that you've appointed as an investigator, especially in Turkey, with a question proposal of 2,000, and with a law proposal, we'll get rid of these victims. It's really admirable that you've been handling this issue after 24 months. There is nothing reasonable, acceptable, understandable, for the faculty members of higher education institutions to be accepted as academics outside of higher education institutions again. Colleges, science nests, areas with autonomous structures... you're assigning them to another field, and you're saying that we accept your time outside as if you've been an academic. Dear lawmakers, who have the academic title here, especially in medical school, who are teaching at the medical school, who are not contributing to independent education, who is not taking scientific action, who, for God's sake, does not participate in the practical and theoretical education of students, who, for God's sake, have the right to say, we accept this academic status as under the university roof. I mean, we have time to turn this wrong. I mean, I'd like to ask everyone, especially the Justice and Development Party, to act in a reasonable way, not just because they're wanted, but because the mind requires it. Clearly, this practice will undermine the reputation of university professors and will not bring good health to the country in the future. Look, here at the Gulhane Military Medical Academy, you're giving an outside professor a freedom of five percent, come and work. Now, I'd like to ask you from here: you told an outside professor, professor, professor, or professor, to come and do this very important, vital, really important operation under this roof. The doctor came in, did the surgery there, the evening, the doctor went home. So, who's going to take the administrative responsibility, the clinical responsibility, the legal responsibility of this patient that you're taking from the outside to follow up on this procedure? For one thing, we all have to admit that the teacher -- which one is under the roof -- is going to look at the outsider from the outside? I mean, will he admit that I'm incompetent, that I can't do it? Good for you, you brought an outside teacher, so I'm going to do his work here. Will he say, "Forgive me"? They won't say that. So we really have time to get back from the wrong parts of this arrangement. So I think it would be in the best interest of our country if everyone here, in a way that this could happen, if their consciences were to make a clear decision. Look, with this bill, you brought a seizure arrangement to the family physicians. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary... In the process of negotiating on the commissions, you stated that the watch has an important part in the notation of medicine, and that it is imperative that a seizure be kept so as not to get away from this notion. So, I'm asking you now: on the one hand, I'm still giving you the same chance to a person who's got an academic title, who's been under the university roof, and I'm still giving you the same academically, go, do your duty there, I can evaluate it in the same way. How can you use his expression? Everyone needs to know that there's no explanation. The physicians are the people who have taken over this mission by sacrificing their social lives, even their private lives, without running from any of our people's health missions, in terms of the development of health in Turkey. We have to give them their rights back to the end. I don't think we'll have anything to gain from the entire bill. As my predecessor stated, in Turkey, I also want to provide them with a standard, a livelihood that teachers can provide in order to undermine the structure, institutional integrity, scientific autonomy of universities in particular, and to improve the rights of our fellow physicians and health workers in other areas, and to make a new arrangement to reflect on the pensions of the return capitals they receive in hospitals today, I would like to express that we are really doing a job that everyone expects and appreciates. Today, we all know that patients receive money under the name of ▪ their contribution in hospitals. Look, these city hospitals have been mentioned, they've been talking about public-private partnerships. In fact, today, people have reached a point of congestion in health care at the expense point. Since you set foot in the hospital, every time you went to the pharmacy, each time, somehow, someone had to collect money from your pocket, so they had to go to the government to collect money from you. I take it this is not the fault of physicians who are concerned about the health of society. We all know that these are developments that have been implemented and confused at this point by the lack of health policies of the Justice and Development Party. Thus, when there are parts of the country that you call a transformation in health, which are truly appreciated and are healing, you express with pride the parts that we express every time, and we contribute to them each time. But when we say the wrong things, I'd like to say to you that it's in the best interest of you and not just of us. Dear lawmakers, you always come to us in Turkey with this expression: "We have made it easier for our people to access hospitals, clinics, emergency services. We have discussed this before in the commissions. You take 2002 as an age, and you say: "Is there anything to be proud of when a citizen in Turkey goes 2.2 times a year, and now he goes to the hospital 8.2 or 8.7 times a year?" Let's say tomorrow he's gone 15 times, he's gone 20 times, what does that tell you? This shows that now people have lost more health than they did yesterday. What if that's what he's showing, or if he's so easy to get to health, and he's going away, which means he's not getting any results from the doctor he's been seeing, and what does that reflect? Go to people's houses, look at their report cards. Look what's going on. He goes to one doctor, he says, "I can't get results." He says, "He goes to the other one, he goes to the other one, he goes to the other one, he goes to the other one." Each time, we express: The important thing is that in health care, what we need to catch is not the numerical majority. If we set up a system where the physician can hold on to what we call "anamnez" when he meets the patient, which requires no expense, we can reduce the money spent by the state in health care services, which we have budgeted in Turkey, and our people get better quality, quality services. Then the doctor will be happy, and the patient will be happy. Look at the number of radiologic studies conducted in Turkey. You've lowered drug prices, you've done a very accurate application, and we appreciate that, but even though the price of drugs has dropped in Turkey, how do you express the consumption of the number of drug cans with a much higher proportion to our population? How do you explain that? Isn't there a contradiction in this? Thus, it is important to facilitate accessibility here, but when people left without improving quality in health care, we were only mature, happy. Beyond what they said, we can find an environment where both a health worker and a physician are happy, and so is everyone else. We'll have more to talk about on the matter, of course. In this arrangement here, it is especially correct that emergency services, friends working at 112, and other areas have increased their watch money by 50 percent; this is the correct approach. So, to see that you have the desire to do things to health workers in Turkey, to do things under difficult circumstances, which will certainly be appreciated and appropriate, but each time it is necessary to express to the professors, professors, professors, professors, and professors, that at the point of raising physicians whose health we entrust to the country, in particular, I will raise physicians who spend their nights in universities, do academic studies, who, by their choice, will serve in the health of this country. Look, I'm telling you again, don't touch them for God's sake. Don't do this, believe me, this country won't do any good. If that were to be in the interest of this country, we would support you, too, but don't create lecturers who would say to the university boards what to do to break their own internal dynamics, what to do with them, and how to prevent them from doing a free profession. There you say: I will look at your three-month performance, and if I see enough, I will allow you to perform a free profession. This will mean that he will have to operate at random -- think of a surgeon -- in order to get that right. You said, "No matter how much you earn, no matter how much you make, no matter how many patients you look at in the way I want you to look, I'll give you the authority to perform a free profession in return." Of course, there is also the subject of mandatory service at the university, Turkey. We also discussed this mandatory service in the commission. When there are people in the country who have actually completed their training under difficult circumstances, who have completed their practice, expertise, and a side branch who have to go to the mandatory service, it means that lifting the obligation of forced service to those outside for some time would disturb the consciences of those in there, and I salute the High Assembly with these thoughts.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0059par0107	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The first word for the individuals is Mr. Candan Üşeşin, MP of Tekirdağ. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0060par0111	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the esteemed MPs, the State Department of Health and Associations 480, the Government of the Law on the Orders and Missions of the Union, and on the entire bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen with love and respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I open this bag, I'd like to tell you the story of the bag. I hope I can understand because the bag has a long and complicated story. In terms of law and procedure, in terms of health care, the House has an exemplary history of legislature activities. There's a lot of cancellations, but there's strong insistence, there's lawlessness, there's lawlessness, there's a lot of victims, there's desperate people, there's lost lives, there's tears, and there's a hole in the bag. On January 21, 2010, when the university and health staff worked full-time, Law No. 5947 took the party to the Constitutional Court under 11 topics, and the Constitutional Court dismissed the provisions concerning full-time work by violating the Constitutional Court. The Ministry of Health also states that the cancellation decision will not include public physicians except university professors. His apartment was stopped by decision. Despite Constitutional Court and Prosecutor's Office's rulings, the ban on the Department of Justice, 650 (August 26, 2011) has again come to the Court of Law on the Offices of Law, banning the work of health workers at various institutions, and it has been reported that professors who serve at university hospitals and whose practice is part of a revenue-producing operation can only be held in university hospitals. In particular, the dramas of physicians who were very special in the field were on the public agenda for months because they couldn't take care of patients. The temporary clause added to the ordinance was granted for two years from the date it entered into force, allowing these professors to take free leave, and the physicians who used it in the form of a sheet of leaves, as well as other physicians whose practice was unable to touch the patients, so there were serious financial and spiritual massacres at university hospitals. Look, in the three months between August 26th and November 21st, when the Full Day Law took effect, 246 physicians retired, 1,157 physicians resigned, 26 physicians closed their practice on a free leave of absence, making 508 doctors full-time. The Republican People's Party has filed a lawsuit against the Constitutional Court to abolish and halt certain provisions of Article 650, and the Constitutional Court has annulled the provisions of the Constitutional Court, which are under the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, which, under the Law of 650, has not included the laws of the State, University hospitals, Turkish Armed Forces, GATA, working in different institutions. In the 60th period of the government, just one day before the statute of law, which was passed to be used between May 3rd and November 3rd, was passed with a series of decrees in the 12 provisions of the law, and the Department of Health's organization was completely transformed by the decree of the 663th Law. The arrangement for the health ministry's organization schematic and operation has been under way for the past 30 years, following the September 12th military coup, in the period of recession for democracy in 1983, when the Health Ministry's 181th Ministry passed the Law on the Agency and its duties. There really was a need for an arrangement, but the Order 663 was prepared with the understanding that after the coup it was uncompromising, uncooperative. Without meeting in parliament, social parties, professional rooms, no questions asked, no consideration, behind closed doors, a few bureaucrats, and other people in some circles, the decision-making of the House, which no one else knew about, was the way of the House, so it was irregular. In the administrative establishment of the Ministry of Health and Health No. 663, the healthcare staff's working principles and presentation of public health services have been radically changed, and in general, contractual and performance-based work has become the basic working model. Under the decree of this law, medical schools have been made a health institution of the Ministry of Health, under the name of use and cooperation. The second and third step was aimed at establishing public hospital units at the municipal level of health institutions. Many arrangements have been made, such as public hospital units, grouping of these union hospitals, the obligation to reside with health staff and legal aid. The fact that the public hospital union and employment were contractual and that all the working procedures and foundations of these contracted personnel were left to the health ministry's initiative was the biggest blow to employees. When 12 laws were issued in one night, seven months later, when there was a lack and a lack of wrongdoing, the ruling under this law would have to be corrected again by the General Assembly of Code 663, and in 15 February 2013, the Constitutional Court overturned some provisions of the Court of Law 663. At work, the obligation to reside has cancelled many arrangements, including the obligation to provide all information, including the privacy of the real person's personal life, at the request of the supervisors, and the ability of health professional councils to make temporary bans and continuous restraining orders from the profession. 663 in the bag that was downloaded to the General Assembly today. There's a full day with the LU KHK. He returned from the Constitutional Court several times a full day, No. 663. We've also returned to the State of the Law. So, what's wrong with the contradiction here? Now, if the laws you're trying to bring, the laws you're trying to do, the practices, if they're legal, if they're legal, why is the Constitutional Court canceling this? On the other hand, why are you bringing illegal, law-abiding practices under the roof of the General Assembly over and over again? Isn't it called lawlessness? Isn't it called lawlessness? Isn't it called "criticism"? I'm sure the Minister will have an answer. So far, it's legal and the size of the House, what we've been through. Patients and health workers who didn't know what to do, what to do, and where to go, so the reflection of these laws, which were unresolved, unintended, unlawful, has become total chaos on the part of healthcare providers and providers. The challenges that could have been born were not calculated or considered. However, to draw attention to the difficulties in these practices, health workers -- we know that these are the groups that best evaluate the problems and solution proposals of health care -- have done actions all over Turkey, tried to warn the minister and bureaucrats about this. The treatment they faced was the noise of the moneymakers. He was able to understand what problems these unplanned, infrastructure-free practices could cause when it happened to his wife and the Prime Minister. First, a full day for the Prime Minister because of his bowel disease, and then a full day for the former minister's wife. The Prime Minister is of great value to his country, to his loved ones, to his family, but I want to tell you about Mehmet Arda, who was three years old when his mother tried and reached out to me in those days: Mehmet Arda, of course, is the most precious of her family. It also has what we call sensorial hearing loss in both ears, and it needs cochlear implants. His mother is desperate to go door to door, trying to reach everyone, because he's out full-time, and because he can't perform, his doctors can't operate, and he hasn't been drilled full-time for him. But, you know, there's been a lot of sick victims with a full day that could be drilled into the Prime Minister's wife... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the O.R. is back at the gates. It's not just the patients, of course we're going to continue with the rest of the materials, but the assistants, the students, the medical education has been seriously damaged. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0061par0127	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the individuals, the final statement belongs to Mr. Ismail Tamer. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0131	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the State of Health and Associations 480, the State of the Law and the Amendment to certain Laws. I salute your high council. Also, on December 3rd, I wish you a life without obstacles, celebrating the World Day of the disabled of our disabled. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before me, except for our friend speaking from the BDP Group, our other friends are all doctor friends. It was as if these friends, who had not served in Turkey, had not graduated in this country and had not worked in the hospitals of this country, had spoken as if they had come from outer space. I watched, like this, in great awe. The reason is that memory is used by human beings. Yeah, that's what I want to remind my friends. I guess I won't have to remind them about the health in Turkey before 2002, about the sufferings in hospitals, about the patients going back and waiting for hours without getting checked out, and they'll all remember. Think about it, dear friends. At the time, there were different institutions, hospitals. No hospital was able to move on its own, and when they left, there was a period in which patients were kept in line for hours, examined, examined fully, examined, x-rayed, and MRI were sent only by prescriptions, and not treated. These were quickly forgotten. Again, I'm talking about a time when prescriptions can't be taken from pharmacies, where every patient can't go to every pharmacy and can't take his medication. We were doctors, and I was a doctor, and my patients definitely couldn't get their medications from a variety of pharmacies, so they went to pharmacies just for themselves. He had a patient portfolio about the SEC, and the SEC patients went away, waited in line for hours, and stayed the day after they could not be examined.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0063par0136	Previously on 2002...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0137	Yeah, I'm talking about before 2002.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0063par0138	Enough, you've been in power for ten years!
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0139	Besides, a doctor friend of mine would have to examine 150 or 200 patients who went to the USSR. It's not just a physical, it's a list of ten people -- by sorting them out in front of him -- asking the patient what's your complaint? My stomach aches. When he says, he writes his stomach medicines and sends them...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0063par0140	Did you do that?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0141	Not to any other pharmacy, just to the pharmacy inside the SEC, waiting in line for hours, waiting in line again, going home without a lot of pen medicine, going there in the same way.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0064par0142	Are the lines finished, Ismail Abi? Come on, let's go. Are we done, tails?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0143	I'd like to remind you of a day when homes are full of pharmaceutical stock, dear friends. Of course, a lot of things have happened. After 2002, a great revolution took place, and we revolutionized health. What did we do? We put hospitals under one roof. What did we do? With everyone's birth certificate... just now, Aytug can't go with my friend's population wallet. Every friend of mine goes with a birth certificate. Now, I'd like to remind you that after this month, you'll be able to go with the palm-reading system.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0065par0146	First the palm, then the person who's gonna kick your ass.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0147	You dear friends, Nisyan... look, we forget too quickly. Please, please, let's not forget.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0066par0148	Come to the full day, Ismail Abi.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0149	I'll come to the full day, and I'll be there, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0066par0150	So it's fair? Is it separate at GATA, separate at the educational hospital, separate at the university, fair?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0151	Look, my dear friend, I know you very well, and I admire you very much, and you appreciate the good things, but I don't think it's right to express things differently here, in general. Dear friends, in a mistrial case against the Court of Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Health and Associations of 663/10/2011, the Constitutional Court ruled that some of the provisions of the provisions of the Court of Ministers be annulled in accordance with the Law Act 6223, which gave the Court of Ministers the authority to issue a decree in accordance with the Law. The amendments and regulations have been made in the Court of Law No. 663 in order to reorganise and meet the needs seen in the application. With these amendments, the mandate to renegotiate contracts with contracted personnel has been granted to the minister, the general secretary, the president and the hospital administrators. I want to remind you of something else here. I was the Chief of Medicine. When I was doing it, and in other friends, and before 2002, and after 2002, before this staff law, we did it again, before 663, I had 18 chief of staff, and I didn't know what good it was, of course. I'm saying it with self-criticism.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0067par0154	You didn't know how to work them.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0155	So, in order to eliminate these distortions, this law was made so as not to use the number of doctors in Turkey, which are already missing doctors. For today, general secretaries have been established, and they continue very well. In the interest of providing uninterrupted health care to our people, our health care staff's residence has been lifted. Emergencys, intensive care, a 50 percent increase in the wages of the watchers in 112.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0068par0158	We said good, brother!
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0159	The mandatory services of those who performed their obligatory services, especially in the 5th and 6th districts, were removed, especially after becoming a family physician. Foreign students from the sixth grade of medical school received financial aid. Such as the medical examiner and dentist who worked in military hospitals -- up 100 points -- was an increase of about 800 euros. The financial losses of those assigned to the investigative staff have been compensated. Family physicians and all physicians were given a business practice situation. You know, the previous family physicians had certificates, and if they had these certificates, they could only do business medicine, these were removed. They were considered to have performed the obligations of state service in the event that they were trained in the practice of the current family medicine. Those who deliberately intervene against employees serving in health institutions and institutions will now be subject to legal punishments, as well as charges of injury. Again, we gave professors two options based on the Constitutional Court's decision. You know, after the shift, after five o'clock, they were able to continue, they were able to do private examinations, and those who didn't agree were able to do 50 per cent of their examinations in private hospitals outside. It's about the circumcision...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0069par0168	There's no practice, brother, there's no practice!
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0169	There's no practice, we already told you we're closing the practice.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0069par0170	Let's put it on the record, there's no practice.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0171	We say that the circumcision can only be done by the medical examiners. In extraordinary and exceptional circumstances, by those who have been trained by the Ministry, without medical supervision...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0070par0172	What's the emergency?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0173	In particular, circumcisions were provided by physicians. Turkish Armed Forces combatants and Police General Directorate personnel have been authorized to intervene in special cases.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0071par0175	Does that fit your conscience?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0062par0176	Again, in health colleges, nurses... As an answer to your words, Mr. Aytug, I'd like to point out that we're getting rid of high school medical nurses. Apart from these recent graduate students, the university and two-year universities of applied sciences have now been brought in, which is an important development. It's all about the emergence of a new, new innovation. We love our physicians. Professors don't grow up so easily, we're always aware of that. Teachers don't grow easily, doctors don't grow easily. In view of all of this, we give our regards to those teachers, our love. God willing, he'll be fine. In the name of all of you, in the name of these thoughts and feelings, I give you once again my respects. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0072par0182	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0073par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say a few words about the Mexican State Hospital in my own constituency. You forced the hospital into the hospital in October 2002 without a final admission, and discharged Recep Selvioğlu, a candidate for mayor from Chorolu, who resisted moving in 2009. It hasn't stopped since the hospital where you moved in with the troubles. Five months later, my mother went to the hospital. Let me show you a picture of the doorknob, Mr. Secretary, if you look this way. Five months later, the construction of Mr. Cemal Kaya, the staff contractor of the TOKI, floods the hospital every time it rains. Sometimes your officials say: "The city is flooded because it doesn't build infrastructure. " On the contrary, the contractor floods the hospital every time it rains because it can't adjust the cost of the hospital's water. Are you going to interfere with this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0074par0189	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0075par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during your time in power, you did not invest any health in Mugla. Are you going to start construction at the Mudla Research Hospital, Middle State Hospital and Bodrum State Hospital, which turns out to be a snake story? If you're going to start, when will you start? When will you finish the construction you started and open these hospitals? Again, under the Law of 663, you have appointed many administrators to the investigative staff, and you have taken away their rights. Now, with this bill, some of these are being returned. Are you going to extradite these two-and-a-half years of last semester, or are you going to kill them? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0076par0194	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0077par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a Datça State Hospital in Mudla, which turns into a snake story and stops construction. Datça, central and Marmaris are 100km away; summer populations, tourists are very crowded, but they are unable to receive health care. No specialists, no doctors, and this hospital doesn't end, so when does it end? Second: Especially since there are no assistants and side branch specialists at universities, it is known that patients' rooms are closed, academic studies are not done, and even though we've already told you about them, when will these staff, physicians, and assistant supplements be given?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0078par0198	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0079par0199	Thank you, Mayor. The sabbatical process of special medications for cancer patients who have been diagnosed with urgent reports from abroad is very long. The permit process from the Medicine and Medical Device Agency is delayed to the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union, which means that patients' lives are being tampered with. Do you have a solution to shortening this process?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0078par0201	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0080par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, an additional building of Fatih State Hospital has been decided to be built in the district of Gebze, the tender has been launched, and the tender has been cancelled without starting by the new employee. I want to know the reason for the cancellation. Again, there's something very common in our region, especially in the counties. Although family physicians have been municipal medical examiners during the processing of funeral licenses and have been medical examiners in the area, these friends are removed from their duties during the clinic and taken to the village or to the appropriate location for the funeral certificate processing. Do you intend to take precautions on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0081par0206	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0082par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the reason for the palm-reading of patients who come to new hospitals under your administration? In this regard, what measures have been taken regarding the sale of private information to others? Do you have any concerns about this application? Second: How many physicians are still abroad who have not done mandatory service? Were there any allegations that some members of the House had children in them? If it's true, how many people are in this situation? Do you find this practice fair? And finally, what is the nature of the Kütahya State Hospital production that turns into a snake story? What's the point of that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0083par0212	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0084par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. There are shortcomings at Kula State Hospital and Alaşehir State Hospital, where our citizens' complaints are increasing. Since Kula State Hospital is understaffed, it is only a hospital that makes transfers. There are flaws in the staff of pediatricians and radiologists. Will your ministry go to a staff arrangement at Kula State Hospital in 2014? Again, the new state hospital in Alaşehir is alleged to have worked as a transport centre in the same way. Patient relatives complain of lack of doctors, and in December, even the heat was not burned. Many health workers receive too many seizures due to the lack of medical staff at the hospital. We also have photos of the hospital's administration moving the hardware to their medical personnel as they move into the new building. Also, in order to save fuel at the hospital, bring catalytic stoves and UFOs from your own home to both patients and health staff.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0085par0217	Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0086par0218	24,000-24 in our country. There are about 500 pharmacies. One third of these pharmacies face secret bankruptcy. We wish that nothing like this could happen. If so, 12,000 drugstores will be closed, 12,000 pharmacists will be out of work, about 36,000 staff will be out of work, some 200,000 people with their families will suffer economic distress. Do you realize that? Do you have any solutions, if you're aware? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0085par0220	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0087par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're making honey pies under the name of the public-private partnership of city hospitals. You allocate the land of these hospitals from the treasury, you leave their 25-year-old income to the investor, and then you pay for your services, and then you leave a lot of revenue-profits to the manager from the florist on campus to the market, from the parking lot to the gas station. If you look at it from a business point of view, it's a great country! But your work is destroying both the public and the people, and it's against the Constitution. You brought it back and made it legal, even though the Supreme Court canceled it. Isn't the Prime Minister's dream of 20 years swallowing our country's 25-year future? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0088par0224	Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0089par0225	Mr. Secretary, during the past summer, the Tokat was tried to be managed by only one obstetrician, including the entire county -- including its medical supplies -- so 650,000 people were treated by an obstetrician, and in the end, this obstetrician friend of ours had a heart attack in the line of duty. We have repeatedly expressed here that doctors can't be found -- especially those in Anatolia -- can't be fixed. Do you plan to make any changes in the employment of majors, especially in Anatolia? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0088par0227	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0090par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I asked you last year what would happen to Erzincan State Hospital. You, at the time, said Erzincan State Hospital would start this year, even promised, but it didn't start this year. When we look at the 2014 budget, he's not there either. In addition, Erzincan AKP MP told the newspapers that public health, first health department laboratory, and number 1. The lu health clinic -- as we called it -- said that now the family center and the TB war dispensary -- near this hospital -- would be destroyed and gathered somewhere else. Which means... the location of Erzincan State Hospital, as we said before, will be shut down and put away? Or do you intend to start this year at Erzincan State Hospital, as you promised last year? For the 125-bed hospital... Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0091par0232	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0092par0233	Mr. Belen, first of all, I'd like to thank you and all your friends. Coroner State Hospital, when we first look at it in general, really, is a remarkable hospital with the space and the physical space for the Chorus.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0093par0235	We're happy that way.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0092par0236	Of course, we're experiencing problems from ground-to-ground contractors. I've been to the Mexican State Hospital twice, a hospital where I'm happy in this sense, and I'm happy for Chori. Hopefully, we'll follow up on these problems as soon as possible and try to solve them. We live in some of our hospitals, not only in Chorus, where there are problems stemming from contracting or contracting conditions. Hopefully, in the coming process, we'll be able to narrow it down with a closer trace. Mr. Erdogan, last weekend we were in Mugla. The tender date was held on February 15th, if I'm not mistaken, at the Muğla State Hospital and an educational research hospital with the university. As of February 15th, the tender will be held, and the process will begin after that. Other than that, I didn't get Middleca and the other one, but...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0094par0239	Basement State Hospital.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0092par0240	And the basement's in the process of getting another tender date. Here, in this new arrangement, hopefully, tomorrow, we'll try to compensate for the victims of our investigators, but we don't have a chance or anything to make an adjustment to the past. We're only at the point where we can edit it with this size.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0094par0242	What about Middle State Hospital, Minister?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0092par0243	Just a second... let friends take a look at Middle, and I'll get back to you when you get back to me.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0095par0244	Datça, Datça...
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0092par0245	Guys, it's coming so fast... The tender was made at 22/10/2013, in the evaluation phase. Basement State Hospital's groundwork has been done, project work has begun. Yes, we have given you the necessary information about them, as Mr. Iron asked. University... when is it going to end? Most universities have assistants and minors. On top of that, frankly, we're working on opening assistants at our universities. In a moment, maybe tomorrow, we'll discuss it again... as a question of how many doctors outside the country have not done their mandatory service, and how many of them are members of parliament?
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0096par0250	There are allegations, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0092par0251	We clearly don't have a number. I don't know if any of the MPs have any relatives. I don't know, but are we going to agree that Turkey's human resources in this sense will remain that way, or are we going to give foreign physicians abroad the right to work in Turkey, to let the people that this country raises and trains, stay out of the country? I'm thinking that if they come to the positions of our universities in these areas, maybe we can solve some of the problems in our universities with these friends. Eyidoğan, about this drug, if I'm not mistaken, is a long process of auto-approvement of 90 percent of applications, and the remaining applications are answered in seven days, two days at the latest. We consider those who have extended the process as exceptional applications, where scientific debates between medicine and disease have not been completed or that the patient may be harmed. Again, Mr. Kaplan, the process of bidding and evaluation continues on 11/11... as grounds for the cancellation of the new tender at Gebze Fatih State Hospital. Abortion of the tender is a technical issue by TOKI... we'll ask for it if necessary, but right now, we don't know what the technical reason for cancelling the tender is. The family physician's burial license... is a burden to our family physicians in this sense due to the lack of local, municipal physicians, or the lack of a staff of physicians in some municipalities. We're working on how to solve this burden, but frankly, we don't have a very short-term solution. It's given to municipal physicians during office hours, but, of course, here, their lack of staff is a problem. We're working on it in case a seizure can be arranged by creating a pool. What is the reason for the reading of the sword? So the main reason for the palm reading is that the abuse is not being processed or processed through different people, which is the basic logic, but the fact that patient information can be given or sold to another person is not legally prohibited, it is not legal, it is not legal, it is not legal, and we feel that it is never right as a ministry to sell patient information, it is not right to sell personal information. As I just said about those who didn't have to serve, we'll discuss the clause when it comes back. Here we are, said to be about 2,000, and in this sense we expect it to turn around about 500 to 1,000, our citizens of this country, our physicians -- here we are, again, eating up -- what comes from Tokat, and in many places, we have a problem with specialists, we have problems with major branches. Because I've been insisting since I became Minister that today, Turkey has a gap of 20,000 specialists. It is clear that we, in a structure with 20,000 shortages of specialists, will be able to discuss these and similar problems in the districts and some of the new hospitals that we have built for the next five years or so. Because, for the first time this year, 2,000 practitioners were more than normal routines. From next year it'll be 3,500-4,000, then it'll be up to 5,000, but you can appreciate that as attending physicians, it's an average ten years in the service of our country as an additional number. So, when we look at the new arrivals as experts in the practice physicians, four years from now, it's only going to start to come up with an additional 2,500, plus 4,000, and then, we're going to have a chance to slowly breathe a little bit. 11 specialists at Kula State Hospital, 28 experts at Alaşehir State Hospital and a hospital that opened in July. Of course, when we think about 24 hours, it's also in your discretion that we can't translate these with a 24-hour specialist.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0097par0259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, your time is up, you'll give me the rest in writing, but I don't know if there's a problem with the system -- whether it's a hand or a hand -- Mr. Tanal was born with a right. I'll give him a minute, then we'll finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0098par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you're against women's employment, but isn't there any woman in your Ministry as well-trained, equipped, well-informed as our boyfriends, that you didn't hire female staff from the bureaucrats? That's what I want to know about it. My second question is about pharmacies. He collects and collects prescriptions, and the Treasury also collects VAT from pharmacists. Indeed, pharmacists are also victims in that sense. Pharmaceuticals collect the ministry's money, and pharmacists also assign an extra staff to do it. When are you going to stop this wrong procedure, or is the Ministry going to pay for and insurance for a staff member because the pharmacists employ staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit02spe0099par0266	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes... [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] There's got to be a roll call. Mr. Tülebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Yüceer, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Süçük, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Özturk. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-03sit03spe0099par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 24th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before the vote to transfer the bill to its materials, the roll call on request was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second round of roll call has not been found enough, it is Wednesday (December 4th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
