tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Emrullah İslam, who wants to talk about the establishment of the Turkish Cypriot Federation State. Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the establishment of the Turkish Cypriot State of Tük Federe. I salute your high council. On 15 July 1974, with the support of the Greek junta, the EOKA leader took power briefly by taking a coup against Makarios (Makarios) to connect the island to Greece. Turkey launched Operation Peace on July 20, 1974, taking into account the safety of the Turks on the island, as well as the movement that refers to Cyprus's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Thus, Cyprus's affinity for Greece was prevented, and the existence of Turkish Cypriots was secured. The Autonomous Turkish Administration Assembly of Cyprus, gathered on 13 February 1975 to form the Turkish wing of the federated units needed for the multi-party democratic parliamentary system and for a federation based on equality, has unanimously declared the Turkish Cypriot State of Federe. Turkish Cypriots, who exercise self-determination in the face of the Greek Cypriots' lack of any agreement in the comfort of being recognised as the Cypriot government around the world and their efforts to increase their efforts to corner the Turkish Cypriots daily, have announced to the world that the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus has formed its self-determination by a unanimous decision by the Federe Assembly on November 15, 1983. Following Operation Peace in Cyprus, the parties began bilateral talks to resolve the problem and address the tension. During these talks, Turkey proposed to Greece to form a cantonal structure on the solution of the problem, but it was not accepted. During all talks on the Cyprus issue in Greek-Turkish relations after 1974, the main approach of the Turkish Cypriot community was to establish a federation with two communities, two segments, equal rights, and Turkey's effective guarantee. Greece and the Greek Cypriot community have followed policies to establish a unitary state in Cyprus, where Turkish minority rights have been guaranteed during the talks. The draft framework agreement drafted by the UN Secretary General in 1985 was entirely acceptable by the Turkish Cypriot community, while the Greek Cypriot leadership was somewhat influenced by Greek pressure and rejected the draft. The talks have not been positive because of the Greek Cypriot administration's unwillingness to recognise equal status and their claim that they are the only legal representatives of Cyprus. In the referendum on 24 April 2004, Turkish Cypriots adopted the UN Secretary General's comprehensive solution plan by a 64.9 per cent vote, while Greek Cypriots rejected it with a 75.8 per cent vote. Thus, the Turkish Cypriots showed the world that they favour peace by saying yes to the referendum. Following the referendum, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan expressed hope that Turkish Cypriots, as of May 1, 2004, regret that they could not benefit from the benefits of EU accession, but that the Turkish Cypriots would also find ways to escape this predicament, which they themselves did not. Mr. Eroglu, who won the Turkish Cypriot presidential election in the first round on 18 April 2010, sent a letter to the Secretary General of the United Nations on April 23rd to confirm his goal of a comprehensive solution and commitment to the United Nations parameters and to resume negotiations where he left off, making it difficult for the Greek administration to strike a natural gas deal with Israel in the Mediterranean. The Turkish side is more clear on the need for the completion of negotiations by the end of the year, and the Greek side's statement, dated June 10th, that negotiations are less open and less willing to complete concretely, is crucial to show who is in favor of the solution. THE party of the EOKAS -- the creator of the Cyprus issue -- ISI (the party) -- raises serious concerns about the solution process, which may win this year's elections. Congressmans, the Cyprus issue is a national issue. Thus, the failure to make the Cyprus issue a political issue and the establishment of the national consensus in solving the problem will be the most fundamental dynamic of the new process in our view. The primordial and decisive policy that Cyprus will become an island of peace and peace... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is the main framework of our Cyprus policy. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you, Mr. Business. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who asked for a statement on the attacks on the right of defence. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0004par0026	Mr. President, I have recently taken an off-the-topic promise to lawyers, to lawyers, to lawyers' honor of the profession, to the professional organisation of lawyers, and especially to the Istanbul Bar in recent days, that the attempts to intimidate, intimidate, and intimidate have become intolerable. I salute you all. After the Constitutional amendment, the court was first surrounded and then held captive. The people and organizations who did not take a stand for power were intimidated, intimidated, and purged by the hand of the judge. Now it's time for lawyers and bars. You know, under the Law of Law, the representatives of the independent defense, the founding element of the trial, are lawyers. If lawyers are intimidated, lawyers are intimidated, it's possible to eliminate independent defense because scared, snake, frustrated lawyers will hesitate to take the cases they want, so citizens will remain vulnerable. In recent years, lawyers have also been heard, arrested, and detained in the middle of the night, on charges of listening, arresting, and opening every door, such as listening, and arresting. The trial of lawyers has been launched. Lawyers are being declared terrorists because of their cases and occupational activities, while lawyers are trying to legitimize attempts to discredit lawyers and lawyers and lawyers and lawyers. The goal is to create wimpy bars that will be silenced, silenced, subject to injustices, lawless acts, lawyers and professions. The goal is to eliminate the defense and neutralize it. If the Bars are silenced, digested, tamed and compliant in the way they're intended, if they're done like sheep, they won't be able to have the lawyers, the law, so that lawyers can hunt more easily, and eventually the citizens won't be able to seek their rights. We have seen the latest examples of this in the DHKP-C case, when lawyers from the Association of Modern Lawyers were taken into custody unfairly and unlawfully; again, we have seen a number of lawyers being taken into custody under the TK case in an unfair and unlawful way. We have recently seen examples of this in the attacks against the Istanbul Bar Association. The press, calling the Istanbul Bar President on January 31st, announces two years to four years of trial against him. Since the press had learned about the recent fashion and litigation before the defendant, the Istanbul Bar President really did listen to it on April 7th, Silivri 2. He's finding out there's a lawsuit in the Criminal Court. Why is there a lawsuit against the Istanbul Bar President and the executives? These are, as we all know, we can't be lawyers in the Sledgehammer case. They're appealing to the High Criminal Court, and they're actually demanding that the right to a fair trial be met on grounds of obstruction of the right to a plea. At that time, Mr. Prime Minister, these have become states within the state, and one day they will come and take us. He did not say, "There were no plans for the Undersecretary of MIT." At that time, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we did not take out a package model, and our Parliament Speaker had no longer returned to the world of judges to understand that he had not said, "There was no danger of the death of any defendant or prisoner; there had not yet been the first surgeries; whatever that means -- he did not say that the respectable people should not be arrested; Mr. President had not held anyone's hand, Mr. Prime Minister; in those days, this decision had not been decided on the liquidation of special authorities. Now, dear lawmakers, I would like to bring this to the attention of the Supreme Assembly in my speech, which will further in favour of the BDP group's proposal for the reasons behind the attacks against the Istanbul Bar and the lawyers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP who wants to talk about the problems of the muhtars. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of our village and neighborhood chiefs and senior delegations. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, our chiefs are trying to resolve the problems of villages and neighborhoods day and night, and to fulfill the jobs and demands of citizens with sacrifice. Our mayors are a bridge between citizens and state in villages and neighborhoods. Unfortunately, they do not see the value they deserve in terms of both wages and social and autonomy rights in exchange for these tasks. Our Mukhtars have to pay their own expenses because of their duties. The costs of the offices, such as rent, electricity, water, burn, telephones and the Internet, and the transportation costs they make to public institutions, bring a separate burden to our headmen. A significant portion of our mayors are only trying to make a living on the Mukhtar's salary. This salary is clearly 440 Turkish liras per month. With this salary, you can appreciate that it's never possible to make a living. The chiefs, whose number is 53,000, are greatly victimised by their minimum wage and pay below the age of hunger. Comparing the mayor's wages to the poverty line is absurd. With the Mukhtars, the AKP has promises in each election declaration but not to be fulfilled. Finally, there were the following statements in the 2011 Election Proclamation: "The Law of the Village will be prepared again, the duties and powers of the village administrations will be increased, the financial resources will be strengthened and the rights of the village chiefs will be improved." These are the statements in the AKP's election declaration. So, now we're asking: where is the new village law? When are you going to heal the rights of the mukhtars? You've removed the villages, you've built the villages, you've destroyed the villages, you've destroyed the chiefs. It seems that during this period, the AKP government will not fulfil its commitments. The 17 law proposals are still on the commissions, which aim to compensate for our mayors' salaries and social rights. Our law proposal, which aims to bring our mayors' salaries closer to the minimum level of life, will allow our chiefs to take a breath. Here are the arrangements that we propose in our proposal for this purpose: Village and neighborhood chiefs are expected to receive 25 per cent of the minimum wage each year -- the gross minimum wage of 2013 -- the gross minimum wage is 1,000 Turkish liras; 978 lira for the first six months; $1,012 Turkish lira for the second six months; and 25 per cent of the minimum salary of the village and neighborhood elders' delegation are expected to be paid each month -- 250 Turkish lira per year for 2013. The pensioners, according to our proposal for the law, can't cut their pension due to the grant they're going to receive. Again, the law is envisioned by the special administration of the villages to build a village room and to pay for the necessary expenses of the village rooms from the state's private administration budget. Neighborhood chiefs are organised to allocate service offices to mayors by municipalities and to meet the required costs of these offices by the relevant municipality. Which, by the way, I'd like to point out that the City of Manisa has rearranged and accomplished all the offices of these neighborhood chiefs. It is intended to use public transport services provided by municipalities and railway trains free of charge within the city limits of which they serve. Dear lawmakers, in our country, to strengthen democracy, to increase the effectiveness of the local government, our leaders must be given the necessary attention. The salaries and social rights of our chiefs working as the closest unit to the citizen must be improved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With such thoughts, I look forward to the support of our proposal of the law, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Before we go on the agenda, I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0008par0060	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, in recent days, the bombs that exploded at the United States Embassy in Ankara, then at the Reyhanite Cilve-eye, the death of our people, suggest that our country is in chaos. Recently, in our Adana, a tent town between 16,000 and 18,000 in the region of Saracham and Incirlik is being placed in Syria. So this -- this Incirlik has already raised us for years by leaving us in such a psychological state -- the Adana is now anxious and worried about the situation in our country, so he thinks that the bombs that exploded in the Syrian presence would fit Adana. That's what I said to get the attention of the council and the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mayor. Archaeological research conducted at the Istanbul Marmaray Project has been halted for lack of money. These studies showed that the history of settlements in the historic peninsula was 8,500 years, and enough historical artifacts were found to fill a new museum. These investigations of the cultural and archeological community, which attracted enormous attention, were concluded by the Transport Ministry DLH, officially by order, sealed at the doors of the warehouses where 40,000 cases were kept, and the artifacts were left to rot. Archaeologists who find these artifacts, which the prime minister scorns by calling them "snatchers," are told to complete the rest of the work with your own budget. Look at us, what a miserable situation we're in. The salary of 20 independent archaeologists and the chemical drug money of water in the pool for scientific consolidation, and the total cost of supplying stationery in the laboratory stage is not more than 100,000 lira. There is no money available for this enormous archaeological find of Istanbul, which contains 45 per cent of the GDP, the capital of the culture, and all over it, like the pistachios, the residences, the skyscrapers. We're facing an outrage.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. As of New Year's, Agriculture Bank loans have been suspended. It's been 45 days today, and the Bank of Agriculture still can't lend. The Council of Ministers must immediately sign it and send it to the General Directorate of Agriculture Bank and get it to the branches so that the farmer can get his money back to the Agriculture Bank. The farmer needs money the most these days because he's going to buy fertilizer, seed, diesel, but he can't lend money to the Farm Bank. Forty-five days' loans from the Agriculture Bank have been closed. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is also here, so please, make a note of this, get them to assess it in the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, save our farmer from being a victim. Second, there was a lot of damage to the cattle in the Adana-Hatay-Mersin area due to three days of illness. The government hasn't done anything about it yet. We investigate, we investigate, they say. But we don't know what they're looking for. Please, let the Minister of Agriculture make a statement on this matter. Our livestock people are very victimized and in a difficult situation. In this matter, please, I'd like to announce to the government through the removal of this burden. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The criteria used to determine years of differential payment supports on the product have been changed in the sense that the value of the Turkish Statistical Agency (TÜİK) has been used in a different term. The total loss is 3.7 million euros in the region due to the difference in TİK data from our producers who produce corn and wheat in light of the work of the Bursa Karacabey Agriculture Room. One final blow to our manufacturers, who are already fighting debt, is with TİK data figures. In this regard, Mr. Minister's statements from the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission suggest that the work done in this matter is different, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. The shell shot at Akchakale, and other border regions, and the explosion at the Cilve-Eye Border Gate, show that instability in Syria will become increasingly disturbing to Turkey. Turkey finally managed to import refugees and terror from Syria with its policy. The Prime Minister says when the event is cleared, we will take the necessary steps without hesitation. When Syria lowers the Turkish fighter, it appears that the attack on Cilve-Eye will also be left to be put to sleep, given the threats and untested steps. The AKP's power is weak because it does not take sufficient measures at the border because it supports one of the parties that clashed in Syria. Under the AKP, Turkey has become a Turkey entrusted to U.S. Patriots in its air defences. Turkey and Syria are friendly and Muslim countries, they must remain friends and brothers and remain. Perpetual hostility with Syria is not in Turkey's interest. It would be in his interest for the AKP to review Syrian policy and border security and to quickly give up the wrongs. I call on power to abandon its nonchalant, non-profit, and host manner, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Farmers and peasants in many parts of Anatolia, such as Tokat Province, are unable to pay their debts due to the lack of money in their production. Farmers who can't pay their debts are being repossessed by their homes, gardens, fields, and animals. The banks are almost land rich. Village chiefs say most of the mail coming to their village is foreclosure paper, and the situation is heavier than it looks. The Anatolian farmer is out of production, leaving his village and migrating to big cities. In order for the farmer to breathe, all his debts, his interest will have to be erased, restructured. I express that the House's support is expected in this matter, and I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0018par0096	Thank you. The AKP recognises no limits in subcontractorisation, which is a slave system, making it a little more common every day. Finally, PTT General Directorate has tendered 20 districts for distribution and cargo services, and services such as the Rush Postal Service, registered letters and cargo were given to subcontractors for 29 months. The subcontractors also began implementing these services as of February 1, 2013. However, even in such a short period of time, it became clear how great the tribulation was. A citizen is a victim and a worker. The subcontractors, who do the distribution work, say the tenders were given not for business, but for profit; they also say that they were threatened by the employer, that they could find no authority to explain their problems, that the fees were paid late or that they were not paid at all, and that they were employed above legal limits. What is the motive and purpose of such a radical institution's unscheduled decision? Will the government ignore the sound of subcontractors? I also want to celebrate the 46th year of DİSK, the voice of an organized worker, here again. DİSK is the most important organization to say no to slavery. I want to point out that we've always been there for them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0019par0100	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0020par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. The 59km-long road, which connects the districts of Akhisar and Salihli, from three of the largest districts of Manisa Provinces, and connects our beautiful and lovely district of Lakemarmara, to reach both our two major counties, has been tendered by the General Directorate of Highways in 1998, but only 17km has been completed so far. Although the ruling elected MPs promised that the road would be finished within a year, Salihli-Akhisar's divided road has not yet been finished. As it is not finished, the work of Balıkesir and Northern Aegean are at a standstill in which nearly 10,000 high-tonned vehicles travel in one day, linking the Mediterranean region with the Mediterranean region. According to Salihli and Gölmarmara municipalities in CHP, AKP's actions to punish these two counties will also win Akhisar's municipality as well as the Republican People's Party, taking into account the 40 per cent vote we received in the last election in our third district, Akhisar, which was affected by it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0019par0105	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0021par0108	Mr. President, yesterday we encountered a busybody of the Parliamentary Protection Directorate. The brochure "The Kurdish Problem" by the Labour Party, which was found next to Sultan Ozer, a Parliamentary correspondent, has a emblem on it. It has been confiscated. This treatment was also cited by the Parliamentary Security Act. So the material with a political emblem on it cannot be entered into the Parliament, it cannot be political propaganda in parliament. It is unacceptable for an unexplainable, unexplainable substance to be carried out and a journalist and a political party to face this situation. I would like to invite my fellow MPs to examine this brochure that will serve peace, as well as the Speakers of Parliament and their executive chiefs to remove and correct this practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. February 13th, today is the 46th anniversary of DİSK. I'm especially celebrating the 46th anniversary of DİSK, who has fought hard to organize the working class, and who is conducting studies on the subject. However, the employees of the United Metal-Work Union of DİSK have been on strike for a long time in Çikirdağ district of Çorı district of Tekirdağ. In addition to demanding their legal rights to the factory, these workers, especially the factory's South Korean boss, brought in illegal workers from South Korea, and identified them at the site where the workers were working on the strike, and they applied specifically for their findings. However, after applying for these legal means, they were especially involved with the serious intervention of law enforcement in their struggle to seek their rights, many of whom were injured and taken to the hospital. Today, on the 46th anniversary of the DİSK, they themselves will make a press statement in Çorı district. I'd like to point out that we're on the side of these press releases.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0024par0118	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of the delegation led by the chairman of Parliament of the Republic of Albania, Jozefina Topalli Çoba, was met with the ruling of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court of President 06/02/2013, dated and adopted by decision 41. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Deputy Chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliament of the Republic of Kyrgyz and the Committee for International Relations and Inter- Parliamentary Co-operation was eligible for a formal visit to our country on 29 January-02 February 2013, as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is presented to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. And now (10/74, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475) the main Parliamentary Research Commission has a review of its election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission is 12/02/2013 Tuesday at 7:45 p.m. B Block 2 to elect President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk members. Level 4. The Research Commission in the Bank has met with 16 members in the Assembly Hall, and the following members have been elected to the following tasks as a result of the vote. For your information. Yours truly. Name and Last Name Voted Election Zone President: Zeyid Aslan Slap 10 Vice President: Yusuf Başer Yozgat 10 Speaker: Yilmaz Bronze Bartin 10 Clerk: Mihrimah Belma Kın İstanbul 10 It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a general debate motion I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On behalf of the Millitian Movement Party Group, which shall open a general discussion under Articles 101 and 102 of the Constitution, in order to assess the principles of the General Assembly of the Constitution, in order to assess the measures that should be taken under the law against France's Republic of Turkey and the so-called Armenian genocide, which strongly accuses the Turkish nation. MP MHP Group Chairman MHP Group Vice President On 22 December 2011, it was adopted by the National Assembly of France that those who denied the alleged Armenian genocide claims should be sentenced to fines and jail sentences, and this time it was discussed and approved by the French Senate. From now on, in France, it is subject to criminal sanctions to reject alleged Armenian genocide claims. Our beloved nation will never forgive France for its ugliness, which has handcuffed France's freedom of thought, which has taken hold of the testimony, and will never forget this misery. The bloody cog of the colony, who dares to judge our history, will find justice, humanity, and mercy, if he finds it, not in the history of the Turkish nation. If the Sarkozy administration is determined to pursue the massacre, our advice is to start with their own rotten history and turn their heads from Africa to the Middle East. If the busy and reckless French government is interested in serial killings and has any interest, it must first look in the mirror and see the dark face of cruelty. There is no genocide in the history of the Turkish nation. And thanks be to Allah, there is not a scene of violence which He will be ashamed of, nor will he be bored, nor will he be able to explain. French President Sarkozy should focus on his corrupt political record and his highly suspicious nature, rather than on Armenian law, diaspora speech, and the production of genocide lies because of his political concerns and traditional line. Our party condemns and condemns the French Senate's decision to punish those who deny false genocide claims. The AKP's government must not be patriarchal and weak in order to prevent this arrogance from being left unanswered. In their minds, crazy people who think that the Turkish nation is going to settle down and be forced to take the stand must learn how to teach a lesson from the wonderful pages of our blessed history to those who do not know their place. Let the so-called Armenian genocide choir hope for nothing and nothing. Because no one will be able to make the Turkish nation accept the murderous accusation they seek and expect. However, this decision made by the French Parliament will be a precedent throughout the world. Therefore, a general discussion should be held at the TBM in order to address the events in all possible future aspects, to determine measures and policies that should be adopted in the face of France's stance. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda, and the preliminary discussion on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there are two motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On January 19, 2012, at 5:35 p.m. in the city centre of Hakkari, Avenue Street, Ertunç Business Inn, the events of the explosion continue despite the length of time that has gone through. I ask and ask for a parliamentary examination of the Constitution in accordance with Articles 98, Article 104, and Article 105 of the Internal Charter of the Constitution to clarify how and who the explosion was made and who it was targeted by, the absence of hospital records regarding police alleged to have been injured in the explosion, the safety of a review of MOBESE and other camera footage. [[Hakkari]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] In Hakkari on 19 January, in the evening hours of the city, a college student named Zeki Green lost his life and 27 civilians were injured. This hand was announced by the PKK that the explosion targeted the police service vehicle without serious investigation by state officials following the incident. However, it has been said that seven police officers were injured outside civilians, four of them were treated standing up, and three other police were treated in a state hospital with severe injuries. However, hospital records indicate that all 28 people including Zeki Green, who was brought to the state hospital immediately after the incident, were civilians, and that there were no police in them. However, the Governor of Hakkari stated that immediately following the incident, he did not submit his first statement that police were among the injured, but that the first treatments of wounded police were made at the state hospital on January 24, 2012, in response to allegations that there were no police among the wounded, and that the police were then referred to İzmir and Adana provinces. Some of the relevant photos have been released to the press, thus trying to support the case of injured police officers. However, the governor's photo of him visiting the hospital after the incident was released to the press on January 24th, showing him wearing different clothes. Although the windows and frames were broken in all the area of the explosion, it is also necessary to say that it is unlikely that the police service vehicle, which was said to have been the target of the explosion, had no windows broken, and that this service vehicle, which had not been seen after the incident, had a flat tire, would have to move away from the scene. Other than that, it is known that the CCTV footage and other recordings of the scene of the explosion were seized by the police. However, there are contradictions in the governor's statement to local media regarding these MOBESE records. Explaining that the recordings were first examined by themselves, the governor later made conflicting statements that MOBESE cameras were not active and did not record on the day of the explosion. On the other hand, no explanation has been made regarding other confiscated images. Other than that, it is clear that at the time of the departure of hundreds of civilians, as the perpetrator of this explosion at the busiest part of the city centre, the state, which each citizen should have the responsibility to protect and protect its rights, has made it easy to place responsibility on someone else right away. It seems the people of Hakkari have been through a great deal. No matter who is behind this attack, it is clear that the people of Haqkari have been targeted and that a great loss has been planned. Because in one of the busiest hours of the day on the busiest street in the city, the result of such an explosion could have been much more severe. A similar incident that was targeted by civilians three weeks after the Uludere massacre is thought to occur in downtown Hakkari. It is imperative that this event be illuminated before time is lost. In the areas of Haqkari and Şırnak, where government officials and Prime Minister themselves say, "We will do special practices," it is not possible to avoid concerns that the incidents are "special practices" against them by the state in public. In this regard, it is of great importance to reveal all the facts about the explosion in Haqkari, to eliminate contradictions and to find the perpetrators of the incident. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, a parliamentary investigation into the problems of the trucker's shop is being launched. 25.01.2012 1) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] 2) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 3) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 4) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 13) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Edirne]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Inconceived]] 20) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Hatay]] 22) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[40s.]] [[Slap]] 25) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 30) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] Transport and cargo in Turkey have been directed to land as a policy of ruling governments since the 1950s. Thus, the current transport of cargo has reached a rate of around 92 per cent. The villager's product is carried through trucks, mainly to consumers or export points. Trucks are also used in a limited quantity of shipping and railway transport. Truckers are professionals with their wrist strength, sweat and limited capital. In addition to the income tax they pay, truckers make an important contribution to the budget because of the gas, the rubber, the spare parts he buys, and all the expenses he uses. Without a penny from the government, the problems of the trucker's shop, which often capitalizes its home, its field, which is so important in economic activity, have been constantly increasing, and today has reached a threatening point in the sector. In the beginning of these problems, the truckers' gains are reduced, and they can't live on their income. Excessive taxation on fuel has reached a point where even the trucker, who can carry the most heavy loads from one end of Turkey to the other, can't handle it. Thus, many admit to using oil as a size 10 instead of diesel in their vehicles. The use of this oil, however, causes a large number of malfunctions in the truck, especially in motor failures, to reduce the use of the vehicle. Many truckers used credits because they couldn't live with their earnings, but they also failed to pay the loans. The minimum price rate of creation by the Ministry in this area has not been achieved, since there is not enough control. The trucker's shop has been taxed on a heavy tax burden, while in the past it has been taxed on the net weight of vehicles, while today it is taxed on maximum weight. Unfair taxation brings additional burden to the trucker who struggles with any challenge. Truckers' co-ops are facing a real estate problem. Co-operatives are helpless in the face of the obligation of transport co-operators to be their own property capable of carrying 75 tons. As a result of the failure of the co-operatives to build this material, important shipping business has begun to move to large companies in this area, truckers are having trouble finding customers. This framework requires positive discrimination in the public transportation tenders to promote the social and economic power of our tradesman and encourage co-op. 13 documents have been imposed on those who transport on land roads. They are collected from a trucker for a K document alone. The release of the K document K1, K2, K3 is a victim of the trucker. So a truck with K3 documents for moving households has brought household goods to Antalya, and some vegetables on its way back, they're being used for criminal action. It also victimises the mover, as it victimises the trucker's tradesman. Also, when a person with a K document sells his vehicle and closes his tax record, the document cannot be transferred. The removal or lowering of the SV and VAT from the gas trucker's use will contribute to the resuscitation of the trucker's own property problem, the resolving of the cooperatives, the solving of the K document problems, the limited capital and the sweat of the country, not the burden of the trucker's business. The trucker's business, which contributes to the country's economy, needs to be investigated at the point of detection and resolution of its problems. The motions have been submitted to your knowledge. These will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a motion in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday (13/02/2013), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On June 6, 2012, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan issued 1138 rows (1138 rows). lu) has been suggested that "the 34th article of the Constitution be read in the same session Wednesday (13.2013), in the same joint collection of talks and the following motions to be submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly to the information of the General Assembly, in order to investigate the deaths of demonstrations and march in a democratic manner." Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, on behalf of the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0025par0333	Mr. President, the most prominent feature of democratic societies is the expression of freedom of opinion and organisation, guaranteed by constitutional rights. However, everyone involved in Article 34 of the Constitution has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive rally and demonstration march without prior permission. The ruling, unfortunately, is put into a situation that cannot be implemented by these constitutional rights governors, by general, by orders, by order, and is often distributed using disproportionate force, especially by opposition political parties, unions, associations, rooms, civil society organizations. As a result, many people lost their lives, many were injured, and the discussion of pepper gas came to a lot of attention. In particular, in 2011, responses to the fact that Metin Lokumcu (Metin Lokumcu) recently lost their lives due to the pepper spray of Ayaan Birben (Jalova) have been sent to the questions we asked, unfortunately, and to the chemical contract that Turkey was part of in 1997. However, all Turkish Medical Association and experts have drawn attention to its effects on health, documentaries and scientificly demonstrated its damage, as well as many side effects, such as nausea, nausea, tear currents, spasms, chest pain, skin burns, and allergies, but at times some ministers have explained them to the point that they are ecologically useful, even beyond. This is serious. What is training at the police academy and the academy in Turkey? Because the training, control and political authority of police and gendarmes in the city as well as in the countryside is very important, but it is useful to say with clarity: Security, freedom and justice in Turkey today, especially when it comes to fundamental rights and freedoms, is too important to leave law enforcement and property to the commanders. The modernisation, restructuring, education is extremely problematic. Bring in the most beautiful constitution in the world, make the most beautiful laws in the world, if your armband is up to 1.5 million, including private security, police, coast guard, rangers, private security, about 1.5 million. According to Turkey's statistical figures, one of 37 falls from one of them to one of the armed forces. If there is no legal audit on this issue -- the judicial audit -- unfortunately, problems with excessive use of force are increasing, and we all know that Turkey has been convicted many times in the European Court. Of course, it's a problem, so if a girl in 15 or on the ground who comes to the police academy with a very interesting phrase, she's going to have a very serious problem with education. I'd like to give you a few examples from a very recent period of time in these social events, protests, freedom of expression, which, from time to time, when we went to celebrate May 1st, we ate the world's gas, and here we have friends, lawmakers. What happened? Then Saloon Square was released. Other than that, you're looking at Kızılay Square. The Kızılay Square is starting to be a silhouette of Ankara, where trade unions, workers, workers, workers, gas bombs, TOMAESTs, armoured vehicles are starting to smell of perfume, and as you look at it, it starts to smell of gas, clouds of gas and fog. Now, the claim to establish a democratic society in such a landscape is not believable, it must have a brakes on the use of excessive force. The first thing to apply this brake is, of course, the political will is the government, but if it comes from the government, go, and I will bring it to the Diyarbakır Governor who opposes you. Diyarbakır Governorate -- an incident two days ago -- a demonstration called a bomb bomb in the hands of the governor after the Panzer crushed, lost his life and lost his life. The bomb went off in his hand. When we looked at the autopsy report on the person called the subject -- it came out yesterday, and it's in the press today -- unfortunately, there was no visible evidence of a gunshot wound, cutting, piercing tool wound, strangulation, drowning, or hanger. Now, when we look through this reality, in this incident in Diyarbakır, the government has to go out and clearly tell this governor, in the Hawk Önar case, that I will protect the security forces, continue to tell lies. He has to say, "You have to hold that in your ear, or you have to take a deterrent action so that you don't do it again." If he's not doing it today, if the judge doesn't stick to him after this autopsy report, and these incidents are common, there's a serious problem. Now, apart from this autopsy report, I've made a list from 2002 to today, I don't have time to read one by one, but in 2002, starting with the events of the events -- Mehmet Şen -- it appears that dozens of our citizens have died due to disproportionate gas flares from 2003 to today. The number of these casualties is high, not low. In a democratic country, we see that in the face of the number of these numbers, the loss of lives does not necessarily apply to the judiciary. For example, in Cizre, John Violet was crushed under a police panzer in 2008, as was the case, and the oppressed were acquitted. Now, obviously, when these events occur in front of all citizens, when you don't take precautions, you lose the sense of justice in society. It's possible to increase this, but there is a fact that if we want to build a real democracy in Turkey, we need to do a serious parliamentary research on this, so is this non-proportionate violence being used because the police, the corps, the gendarmes are being ordered to do so, this is the result of a mindset, the result of education, the policy, that we need to clarify that. We believe that would be possible with a congressional investigation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0026par0344	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The second speaker is Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu of Niğde MP. Mr. Kavalıoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0027par0348	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the Council's motion to open a parliamentary investigation under Article 104 and 105, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the democratic demonstrations and the deaths of the People's Party of Peace and Democracy's 34th Articles, in order to investigate the demonstrations and march. I salute you all. The right to hold a meeting and demonstration march is organised by Article 34 of our Constitution. According to Article 34, everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. The right to a meeting and demonstration march can only be limited to national security, public order, prevention of crime, the protection of general health and general morality or the rights and freedoms of others and by law. The forms, conditions, and procedures that will be applied in the use of the right to conduct a meeting and demonstration march are shown in the law. Dear MPs, as you can see, according to our Constitution, everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive rally and demonstration march without prior permission. However, if actions and activities are carried out in order to disrupt public order during the use of this right, endanger public safety, or prevent the freedom of others, police or gendarmes will intervene within the framework of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations. Article 17 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations No. 2911 can ban a specific meeting to avoid a month's or imminent danger, in order to prevent national security, public order, crime, general health and common morality, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. Although necessary warnings have been issued in action and activities, security forces have been able to intervene in groups that have continued illegal acts and acts of conduct by crossing the legal limit or who are not disbanding their actions. Dear lawmakers, our security forces, especially in social matters, are able to resort to force-use measures in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in order to fulfil their duties given to them by legislation for the establishment and continuation of public order and security. In this framework, the management of the estate, which is tasked with providing general security and security in the province, will go to regulations laid out by law in the meetings and demonstration march; in order to prevent irreparable damage if such acts of public order and security fail, the Human Rights Convention shall be forced to postpone or ban on the basis set by constitutional and relevant legislation. The main goal here is not to prevent people from using their basic rights and freedoms, but to take the necessary measures to use these rights and freedoms in safe environments. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to point out in particular that between 2002-2012, in our country, within the framework of the relevant legislation, there have been no incidents of death during legal meetings and demonstration march. However, an immediate judicial and administrative procedure has been initiated regarding personnel who have exceeded the limits of force during the intervention. For example, there has been an investigation into 3,410 personnel in January 2002-May 2012 on charges of overstepping the limits of force and 4,267 administrative personnel in January 2005-May 2012. Congressmans, I'd like to talk about the Human Rights Action Plan, which our government has prepared to combat human rights violations in every area. According to the action plan, proportional force will be used if necessary during meetings and demonstration walks and arrest and detention practices. In this scope, surveillance with cameras will be effectively used and monitored in prisons and places where freedom is restricted. An active forensic and administrative investigation will be conducted on the grounds of the European Court of Human Rights hearings which have caused death and injury by using non-proportionate force. According to the action plan, the statute of limitations on torture will be removed completely, and the physical conditions of all areas where freedom is restricted will be improved. Due to torture and abuse, compensations paid by the state will be implemented effectively to collect from the perpetrators of these crimes or from a public official who is not doing the investigation properly, for which the process will be changed. The law enforcement commission is scheduled to set up for a single-handed assessment of reports and complaints regarding law enforcement forces. This is also on the agenda of our Council of Ministers. An arrangement will be made to prevent torture and abuse from being punished, in parallel with the provisions required by the Penal Code. The active investigation of public officials will be made. Dear lawmakers, during the EC PARTI period, there has been a major breakthrough in human rights beyond the scope of previous governments. The protection and progress of human rights, democracy and the rule of law has been our primary goal ever since we came to power. We believe that the greatest investment in democracy is to make human rights and freedom a form of behavior and thus eliminate human rights violations. The most dominant concept in our government's program is democracy. During the EC PARTY, institutionalisation efforts for the development and strengthening of human rights have gained weight. The brute force has made serious progress in the removal of brute torture. In the September 12, 2010 referendum, regulations for developing human rights were brought to our citizens, which would directly affect them. With this referendum, which has been widely adopted with the support of our people, the amendment to Article 128, our Constitutional Court has been cleared of its right to an individual application to the Constitutional Court. We will continue with determination to make decisions that will expand freedoms. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say it is not appropriate for the Constitutional Court to open the investigation of the Constitution under Article 34 of the Peace and Democracy Party under Article 34 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the deaths in democratic demonstrations and march, according to Articles 104 and 105, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0028par0360	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. Third speaker on the motion, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0029par0364	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of BDP's group proposal. I salute you all. The BDP has proposed a parliamentary investigation into the rights violations of the rights of the meeting and demonstration march that should be held within the democratic and legal state of the governorate. My dear friends, even the peasant women who have taken possession of their sheep, stones, land, turtles, sea, snakes, and urine, are being judged for membership in the terrorist organization during this time of our lives. The Law on Meetings and Demonstrations No. 2911 is being tried today for membership in a terrorist organization that seeks to use the right to hold meetings and demonstration march, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. In every part of society, non-governmental, non-violent, non-violence, especially by the use of judgment, is being digested and silenced by the hand of the judge. After these intimidation and intimidation operations have been completed in all parts of society, after the trial has been surrounded and surrendered, the defence has now been open to lawyers representing the right to independent defence, one of the main elements of the trial. My dear friends, our Prime Minister, in an unfortunate statement regarding these arrests and arrests against the President and members of the Association of Modern Legislators, these friends, the lawyers inside, the documents they're trying to burn, the fake IDs. Who are they? Lawyers who know what they're doing. Outside, some lawyers say they can't be interfered with about those lawyers. Come on, how could you not? If they support terrorism, it's like honey. The lawyer will defend the right, not terrorism. Right is what law is. Now, my dear friends, I must ask you, how does the Prime Minister know they're defending terrorism? Is there a conviction that's been confirmed that these people are terrorists? Based on the unilateral claims of the police, does a Prime Minister of the democratic state of law have the right to accuse lawyers of representing independent defence, which is the basis of the trial? Of course, if a lawyer commits a crime, there will be investigations and prosecution, of course, if a lawyer is supporting a terrorist organization, of course, there will be investigations and prosecutions against him, but this investigation and prosecution will not be done as a pleasure. This law is the Law of Law. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has passed this law, and it has been envisioned how to investigate and prosecute lawyers in the Penal Code again. In both the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Punishment, in which article of the Law on Penalty does it say that lawyers are to take their blood out of their will, to take their saliva, to take samples? My dear friends, I would like our AKP lawyer friends to go and visit these lawyers. Today it's obvious what's a terrorist and what's not a terrorist. Everyone who opposes power in Turkey is treated as terrorists. The most intense of these attacks was the Istanbul Bar Association. Now, friends, the second joke of the 1st article of the Law on Laws: the lawyer freely represents independent defence, which is the founding elements of the judiciary. Without a lawyer, there is no independent defense, no independent defence. Article 2: The judicial body has to help lawyers fulfill their duties. It says that it does not give them any appreciation. In contrast, judges and prosecutors who are charged with following these laws, let alone assist lawyers in carrying out their duties, the lawyer's basic duty of defense is officially being blocked. Now, it's also becoming unable to do the job of a lawyer. My dear friends, the 95th article of the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Rights Against occupations and occupational rights against professions and colleagues, are tasked with defending their professions and conducting every legal and administrative initiative in these matters. In this way, the 6th article of 97 is also assigned to the head of the bar and his administration to defend the requirements of law and professional rules against all kinds of organs in matters related to the honor of the profession and independence of the lawyer, and to do things that force him to do or to do things that force him to do the job directly in this regard. My dear friends, since then, the Ergenekon case, the Sledgehammer case, the KCK case, and the last time the DHKP-C case were prevented from doing their defence duties, has now become a fact that the public can't deny it. As a matter of fact, the head of the Istanbul Bar Association and its administration, İstanbul 10. On April 6, 2012, the 10th day of April 6, 2012, when his colleagues were unable to defend themselves in the case known as the Sledgehammer case, which was held at the High Criminal Court. They went to the High Criminal Court, where they filed a petition to the court committee, and they filed the following demands: make a fair trial. Follow the rules of order. Don't limit your right to defend yourself. Don't let our professional honor be manipulated. They said so. The Bar management and the President did so under the mandate and authority of the Attorney General's Law, which it has imposed on the bar and on its president in Articles 76, 95 and 97. Judges and prosecutors in charge of implementing the law have no right to play with the honor of lawyers in order to eliminate their right to defend themselves. Article 203 of the Penal Code has given the court's president the authority to remove the person who violated the court order in a manner that does not violate his right to defend himself; the person who clearly breaks the order of the trial. Even so, it's been authorized not to interfere with his right to defend, but in those cases, lawyers and defendants were unable to defend themselves. Since when has a lawyer in this country who's willing to do his right to defend his rights disrupts the court order, disrupts the trial? It's the judges and prosecutors who are disrupting the trial, disrupting the trial, violating the defense, which is the basis of the trial. My dear friends, the court committee receives this baron's petition, listens to the Bar President's statements, listens to two pages of statements, and allows those statements to continue, saying, "Okay, okay." When the Bar President's speech is over, I read from the court president's statement to the transcripts: "We'd like the right to come here as your bar manager, so that the defendants can use it. You, of course -- your Bar Board of Directors -- have come with that intention, he says. So the president of the Bar and his administration accept that the Law of Lawyers has come to this administration to exercise a right within the scope of rights and authority, and then the court's attorney will agree, but in the end, the prosecutor won't think so, asking for a criminal complaint against this administration and the president of the Bar to be filed against Article 288/th article of the Law on Criminal Responsibility on the basis of a fair trial. Unfortunately, the court accepts that, and the charge filed against the president of the bar and the administration to influence the fair trial is, in any case, after we have removed the third package of judgment in this House... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is being sued by the prosecutor who is conducting the investigation on this occasion on the charge of not affecting the duty of justice. My dear friends, look, no matter what political party we're from, the lawyers in us, the people in our defense, no matter what thinking we are...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0030par0382	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0029par0383	...our basic duty is to defend the defense. Now, Turkey, today, has become a defense. It's a shameful painting, there's no shame in it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0030par0386	The last speaker on the motion is Mr. Bulent Turan, the Istanbul MP, against him. Mr. Turan, please. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, MHP APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0031par0388	Let's hear it!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0389	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. In fact, I'd like to say a very brief greeting and leave on the basis of the intensity of the agenda against BDP's group proposal, but I've come to you with a duty to respond because CHP MP Ali Riza Beya, who I enjoyed working with on the Commission, made a number of claims about the bar, in his tone of speech that caused the microphone to revolt.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0391	Are you on the side? Are you on the side, Mr. Bulent?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0034par0392	He's the direct side.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0393	Because the bar...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0394	I didn't even give you your name.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0395	This is not the agenda of the General Assembly; the bar is not the current agenda of this Assembly. But since a friend of ours, the deputy of Mersin, has raised the issue...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0396	You should have brought it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0397	...as someone who's committed to the Istanbul Bar, who's been there as a lawyer, who's still there, and who's continuing his dues, if you'd appreciate it, I'd consider it a duty.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0398	You brought it up, you brought it up.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0399	My dear friends...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0400	I didn't say them.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0401	Mr. Ali Riza, I listened sincerely without opening my mouth...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0402	I didn't say them.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0403	If you could just listen for two minutes, maybe...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0404	What are you doing here?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0405	...we'll find more answers.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0406	Give me ten minutes, and I'll tell you what you're doing.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0035par0407	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0408	Look, I've never been mad, I've listened to you. I'm at the beginning of my promise, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0409	I get it, I guess you're not against it. What's going on with you? Are you the Minister?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0410	The law comes out of discussion.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0411	Let the Minister answer me. Are you the Minister?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0036par0412	Mr. Ozturk, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0413	Maybe I can put a few things better than you, maybe we can find the right path together.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0414	Let the Minister answer.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0415	Excuse me, I'll answer.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0416	No, let the Minister answer. Are you the Minister?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0417	Dear friends, as much as Mr. Ali Reza is on the baron's side, so am I.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0418	Not at all!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0419	Ali Riza Bey Mersin MP, I am the deputy of Istanbul and I am duetting the Istanbul Bar Association.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0033par0420	You're trying to get what the Istanbul Bar has not given you!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0421	Look, dear friends, Mr. Ali Reza has just said that there's a great deal of pressure from the Baroya Assembly, the government, the MPs. Look, this is a laughable claim, so I've got papers in front of me, and I've got them out of the Internet right now. My dear friends, on the Istanbul Bar's website -- highlighting history -- on February 2nd -- I will tell you the long but brief -- the Istanbul Bar says: The indictment dated January 30, 2013 was filed under the charge of attempting to influence the person who served as president of the Istanbul Bar and its executives. See, this is the best proof that the baron is the one who pressured the court and the prosecutor, not the government or the MPs, by pretending that the indictment was announced before the indictment was made. When there are no indictments, don't disclose the indictment or we'll make a fuss. The bar published this article on the website at least a week ago. Two: Although the indictment was announced on February 8th, in previous times, the General Assembly has decided to make a number of claims a pressure factor again to intimidate them -- extraordinary, non-electional -- underline -- to underline them.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0424	They're waiting for you too, Bulent! Get over there, over there!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0425	Why? He's made this decision to suppress the court. Look, dear friends, Mr. Ali Reza is still talking about...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0427	You're trying to take the hit the lawyers didn't give you!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0428	Master, you sound more than me. Look, you're older than me...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0429	I didn't mention you. I'll tell him you're a coupger if you want!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0038par0430	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0431	Ali Riza Bey is older than I am, and I don't mean to be disrespectful, but there's a saying. Don't be more king than king. Don't be more king than king.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0432	I'm defending the law! Shame on you, not defending the law as a lawyer!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0433	Look, the Hurriyet newspaper, Yalçin Bayer - a writer you love very much - said yesterday that: "We are still more king than king of the king," says the president of Istanbul Bar Kosakal Balyoz: "You are still king of the king here," according to some articles in this case. I'm telling you, lawyers, they don't swear to the law, they swear to the law. I've sworn to the law.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0434	You don't know anything about the Law of Law!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0435	As a lawyer, I say that the law of law is not a law that we do, it has antidemocratic provisions, it has wrong regulations, but so far, let's make this law more democratic than the Istanbul Bar or Ali Riza Bey. There's not a single suggestion.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0436	Why didn't you bring it, the ruling party? You're the ruling party, bring it!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0437	But it's the executive's job to follow those rules. When the Istanbul Bar was called the coup d'état...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0438	You're the coupger!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0439	...after which he will be remembered for his occupation. As of Friday, the bar is down, and the bench members, whoever they are, have to take office, which is the law. Oh, the reserve board members may say: I respect the election, I go to the General Assembly immediately. I respect that, but as of now, all procedures are invalid, including giving the Baron's legal license. Because when we look at the 90th and 92nd article of the Law of Law -- and it describes you -- the place of the board members who left before the end of the election period is filled with the most elected replacements. Regarding one of the board members, according to Article 90, if a public case -- TK 277 -- has been filed against for a crime that prevents the election -- cannot attend this board meeting until the end of the trial, it will be replaced by a replacement member. It's so obvious, friends, there's no need to bend and bend. Once again, as a lawyer, I don't approve of this law. In accordance with the rule of innocence, one is guilty when convicted, but I did not make this law. Once again, since the indictment has been announced as of now, nine members of the Board of Directors of the Istanbul Bar have been taken down, and the replacements must be replaced. Look, dear friends, neither CHP nor the head of the Bar can weigh the understanding of the AK PARTY, the liberalism of the Bkent Turan, our representatives there, the sense of democracy, international, universal rules. We're more liberal, everybody knows that. When we're doing the September 12th referendum in favor of this nation, let's take it up with September 12. Those who say no today can't come to us, there's no pressure. But, let me tell you something else, my dear friends: there's a written rule in front of us, you like it, you don't like it - but we still have friends who are angry. However, a few months before that, the Court decided that the headdress was not an obstacle to the law, which is a free profession. Look, the D.A. made that decision. The Istanbul Bar has then made a grave claim, which cannot be accepted because the headscarf prevents neutrality, even though there is no written rule. So I'm asking you right now: if the headscarf -- as you say -- is an obstacle to neutrality, if eight of the 10 board members are accused of it, if they're charged with being convicted, what neutrality are you going to talk about? The bar has lost its neutrality, it has fallen. Whether you want it or not, I think they're going to do it, and they're going to do it from now on, the Baron's other opposing lawyers.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0441	Is it your decision to decide whether you fell or not? Why are you so interested?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0442	My dear friends, the antidemocratic laws of the Law must immediately...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0443	You want to take what the lawyers don't give you?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0444	Not by shouting, but by working...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0445	What's it to you?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0446	It's our duty to bring him here to work. Whether you like it or not, you'll see, the process will reveal a lot of things. The extraordinary General Assembly is a position that suits the bar, knowing not to make a decision and do anything more than political pressure! Everyone knows that we open our mouths carefully to the bar, to the judiciary, not to press, but everyone knows how CHP pressures, how judges are invited to the meeting by whistle. And the Baron -- you may not see it, I know the Istanbul Bar well -- let's change the law, even though we say it, is a step towards the future political accounts of the President's Hope Bigbeard. I'm very clear...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0448	These are your thoughts. Don't bring these here!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0449	...is nothing more than the political accounts of Bigbeard.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0037par0450	He can't? What are you going to do?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0451	I've been saying for fifteen days that this law is wrong, let's fix it. He hasn't opened his mouth yet. The General Assembly has decided there is pressure. He said, he lied, he slandered. He broke the record, made four written statements in four days, contradicting each other: One, he said, "It's okay. It's okay." 2) We are at the beginning of our mission. The General Assembly (3) said. 4) Yesterday, Hurriyet said, "I have to give it up." Everybody knows what's what.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0039par0456	No, I don't understand why you're so involved.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0457	In this country, in the name of democracy, as the law of lawyers, we know what great risks we take in accordance with universal law, how we fight coupgers, how we go to referendums -- I insist. We're not afraid of that. Mr. Ali Reza still says, "Why are you interfering?" I'll say it again: the deputy of Mersin is interfering with whatever it is that's interfering with him. Two: the deputy of Mersin does not pay dues, I pay dues. The legislature is today, not tomorrow. But I'm a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, it's my job to fix it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0040par0460	No, I'm a shepherd!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0461	It's an embarrassment to be a member of a baron who has taken his job as a lawyer, who deserves the label. The largest bar in this country, with more than 30,000 members, has so far been referred to as coupism, but thanks to you, it will also be called occupation.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0040par0462	How many votes did you get, how many votes did you get? There's one here.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0463	It's not fair to get too many votes. Don't you guys always say that? How many votes did he receive? No matter what he received, there is no more injustice.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0040par0464	Now you're trying to take a hit, you're defending it. That's why you're so defensive.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0465	So I ask you, how many votes did the alternate member get, how many votes did the alternate member get? Dear friends, these things don't happen by shouting. Once again, the Istanbul Bar Association has been dismissed, as claimed, its work will be invalidated as of Friday.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0040par0467	What is the matter with you if it should fall or not?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0468	I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0041par0470	Mr. Muharrem, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0042par0471	Mr. President, I assume you'll promise Mr. Ozturk to pick on him.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0472	I didn't, Mr. President, I did.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0042par0473	But let me tell you, sir, the speaker has graduated from law school, but he probably hasn't read the 80th article of the Constitution. The members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey represent the entire nation, not the district or the chosen ones. So, he says he can't talk about the Istanbul Bar, whether he pays dues to the Istanbul Bar or not.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0032par0475	He talks, he talks...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0042par0476	All this jurisprudence, he's not gonna get out of law school. He needs to read the Constitution book.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0043par0477	Mr. President, there is no need for the speaker to insult your opinion, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0044par0478	Right.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0045par0479	I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0044par0480	Mr. Ozturk, please. In two minutes... Can you please reciprocal...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0046par0485	Mr. President, if you've seen my speech, in the transcripts, I didn't give the name of our friend, I was kind, and I didn't talk about any of the things our friend said, so I didn't argue whether Bar Management fell down or fell down. I was just trying to explain how illegal the case against the Bar Administration was. We can't discuss a file here in ten minutes. But it seems our friend was so thrilled to be a lawyer for the Istanbul Bar.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0047par0486	No...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0046par0487	...she shares that joy from Twitter before days. Look, my dear friends, this friend of ours is giving us the first flare of this fall, the administration of the Istanbul Bar has fallen, says Twitter. Now, as a lawyer, do I agree that you don't know the special ways of a lawyer's trial, or should I be sorry that our friend doesn't understand what he's studying with a lawyer's judgment? But I think he's been talking nonsense for days because he doesn't know the meaning of the opening of the last investigation on the lawyer trial, but he's taking this crap to the council stand. My dear friends, look, this is the ruling rule of law group, which our friend is a member of, which has received 4,650 votes from this election...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0048par0489	Don't lawyer up the coup baron!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0046par0490	...but this administration he accused our friends of received 12,836 votes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0049par0491	Mr. President, we are not discussing the elections of the Istanbul Bar.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0046par0492	Our friends are trying to get the right to representation that Istanbul lawyers don't give them, with the prosecutor, with the judge. Now that's a coup. (Applause from CHP rows) I'm against the coup. There's no opposition to the coup. I'm a man as much as you are, struggling with blows.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0050par0493	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0046par0494	As a lawyer on this stand, and as the baron's attorney, I feel sorry for you, as a lawyer, for violating the right to defend that lawyer.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0051par0495	Don't lawyer up the coup baron!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0052par0496	No, you're wrong, Ali Reza Bey.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0046par0497	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0053par0499	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0054par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0053par0501	Here you go, Mr. Turan. Finish in two minutes. Let's not get personal, friends, let's talk objectively, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0505	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. I don't want to eat grapes, I don't want to eat laces. This microphone is here not to scream. There's no need to shout, we agree to talk, there's no need for this tension.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0056par0507	Shame on you! You're not the only name in my speech.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0508	That's funny, this microphone was put in here so you wouldn't get tired. You don't talk loud, you talk quiet, you talk nice, and if we're lawyers, we sit down, we talk, you convince me, you don't convince me...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0056par0509	You're not a lawyer!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0510	But, the man who's going to weigh my jurisprudence... let's not get into anything else... no one's going to discuss my jurisprudence. I made a bet, and I stand by it to the end. According to this law, the Istanbul Bar has been dropped due to the indictment against 8 of the 10 members.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0056par0512	I get it, but what's the problem? What's it to you, Velev?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0513	Moving on. But this law violates international universal law and needs to change.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0057par0514	What's their crime, Mr. Bulent? Are they just self-defense?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0058par0515	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0516	Ali Riza is enough, so don't come out. Dear friends, everyone knows what the Istanbul Bar is testing for democracy, and so do we. But I find it odd that Mr. Ali Reza insisted that there should be so many votes. It's not about votes, it's about rights. A concession of how many votes the first one gets doesn't allow for any guilt. The administration of the Istanbul Bar...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0059par0518	Can you explain what the crime is?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0519	Well, instead of getting mad at me here, tell me this...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0060par0520	What happened to you?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0061par0521	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0055par0522	On the current Baron's list, there's no discussion if the Board of Directors has backup members. There's talk of a government that can't even do that. What are you defending? I'm asking you, Mr. Ali Reza, who's been discussing my position as a lawyer, why don't the current board members have backups? That's what I'm asking you. Second of all, you get angry in yesterday's Hurriyet newspaper -- look -- the current President says we're down. He says, "We're down," even if you don't say so, we're down by the law." I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0062par0526	You're not telling the truth, Mr. Bulent.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0063par0527	Thank you. Congressmans, I submit the group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Guys, please... I'm having the National Movement Party's proposal read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 13/02/2013 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On Wednesday (March 30, 2012) it has been suggested that our parliamentary research proposal for 13/02/2013 (today) be read in the General Assembly, where we have given 30 March 2012 and 4087 to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to investigate the problems of our farmers regarding the irrigation troops, and to determine the measures that need to be taken. The first speaker on the proposal of the National Party of Action Group, in favour of its MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Mr. Tin Man, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0064par0548	Mr. President, before we finish the discussion...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0063par0549	Please, let's take our seats, folks. Please be quiet...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0065par0550	We don't understand anything, let it be reread.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0063par0551	No, it's been read, sir. Mr. Ozturk, please take your seat. Friends, please take your seats. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0066par0555	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the proposed research proposal as the National Movement Party to investigate the problems of our farmers' irrigation troops and determine the measures that need to be taken. On this occasion, I salute you all. Watering troops are important for our farmers and our country's agriculture. However, the irrigation troops are almost doomed to their own fate. Since the irrigation forces have no technical support, they are unable to fully perform their functions and are facing significant financial losses. Turkey's 388 active irrigation units face financial problems. Those who work in irrigation units are also victimised by their rights as well as by their wages. There must be a solution to the problem with extra personnel. The repayment of investments in public irrigation projects has been found to be an important straitlock to collect irrigated fees. Projects carried out by the DSI on rehabilitating ground-watering fields must be paid by farmers who are fully registered to irrigation units, who benefit without watering them. Due to the failure to collect these funds, initially a down payment, there is great difficulty in implementing the project costs by irrigation troops. Farmers and irrigation troops can't afford it, they can't. There must be ease in this regard; such investments, as in co-ops, must be paid by the state. One of the most important problems of watering troops and watering co-ops is the difficulties in paying irrigation electricity fees. A significant amount of electricity debt has been created, irreparable, due to high price hikes in electricity prices. The price of electricity used in agricultural irrigation must be reduced. Taxes and funds, which make up almost half the electricity bills, should not be taken from our farmers and peasants. Current electricity debts regarding past periods of irrigation troops and irrigation co-ops must be restructured without interest. Moreover, electricity bills must be collected after the harvest. In order for irrigation troops and irrigation co-operatives to produce their own needed electricity from renewable energy sources, the necessary projects and financing support must be provided and regulations to encourage implementation. Unlicensed electricity production must be introduced to 2 megawatts for the upper limit, irrigation troops and irrigation co-ops, and the priority for connecting these plants to the power grid must be given. Dear lawmakers, as you know, agriculture is a strategic sector that is increasing year after year. Its role and importance in providing water and food security for a country is also very important. The understanding of the AKP government's understanding of the full cost of water is not in harmony with the socioeconomic realities of our country. In particular, it should be known that many problems will arise in agriculture, and water should not be considered a commercial meta. In order to protect and efficiently use water that is increasingly scarce, irrigation troops and irrigation co-operatives should be more effective. However, the Law on the Underwaters is being changed, it is required to place measuring devices in underground water wells, and the farmer's action plan to put 200 tons of water quotas in the desert is revealed, but the farmer's, agricultural rooms, irrigation troops, and irrigation cooperatives do not even get their views. Now there's a change in the arrangement that was made two years ago, and there's no result, but the AKP government is acting on its own again, ignoring the relevant parts. The most effective implementation of decisions made under water management should not be forgotten that it is possible for our agricultural rooms and water user organisations to participate in these decisions. The law proposal, which will be discussed today, will change the existing provisions in Law 167. We will express our detailed opinions and warnings as the proposal is discussed. This change envisions setting up measuring devices in wells within a year; in the event that those who can't set up a measurement device for agricultural, drinking and using water within this time, the cost will be set up by the DSI General Directorate in three years to collect 25 per cent more. The farmer is being set up. It looks as if the time has been extended for three years. However, three years are granted to the DSI. Within a year, the farmer will either install the device, the meter, or apply to the DSI, allowing it to be installed by the DSI. When applying to the DSI, the farmer who has to pay 25 per cent more is cornered. After the DSI's related law, regulations, general order of action plan for the basins, measurements are set up, it is scheduled to be used about 200 tons of water per person's well for the use of subterranean water, and 350 tonnes for the co-op. With this practice, a farmer who sows wheat will have to leave only 40 per cent of the field, 35 per cent of the sunflower and beans, 30 per cent of the sugar beets and corn-planting corn, and a farmer who sows clover will have to leave only 20 per cent of its remaining area to nada. The AKP government says to the farmer, "I will cut off your water, and you will not plant your field." Controlling the use of underground water is certainly important for our country's future. But the procedures must be rational, logical, and practical. Why is the whole bill up to the farmer? The government must do its duty first. Current irrigation systems must be completely modernized, new projects must be prepared according to pressurized irrigation systems and an effective incentive to do so. Land collection activities must be accelerated and must be used to bind well licenses and meters in gathering areas. The necessary rehabilitation in the groundwatering grounds must be completed quickly. With these studies completed, many of the underground water wells will already be disabled. The water quota must be determined, considering the annual consumption of water from plants that the farmer will plant. Otherwise, this arrangement has no chance or opportunity to apply. If the farmer didn't get the equipment installed, there hasn't been a lot of wear in two years, what's to be done? The farmer is threatened. The AKP government can't do anything because it's wrong. You can't get anywhere with a push like that. The farmer's bread is being played. How can the farmer consent to that? The farmer won't be able to plant half his field with the water predicted to be given. Let it be well known that if the wells are insisted on using counters and quotas as predicted, the farmers will bury the AKP in those wells. The farmer is living in the worst time in his history. It is a fact that the Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel and fertilizer and is overwhelmed by heavy input costs and therefore unable to produce. For ten years, our farmers have sold wheat, beets, for almost the same price, but the price of masoth, fertilizer, medicine, seed has increased four to fivefold. What about us, he says? Let's figure this out. We, the National Movement Party, are awaiting your support in our motion for irrigation troops. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0067par0571	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Nevşehir MP Murat Gökturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Gökturk. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0068par0576	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the issues of the irrigation units issued by the MHP Group President. I salute the High Council and your delegation, our dear nation. By 2004, the provision for irrigation troops was made by City Law 1580, which was established according to the law. After that, the irrigation forces were formed under Section 5355. However, due to a gap in practice, the need for a special legal arrangement for irrigation troops came to the agenda, and in 2005, the Law on Watering Units 6172 was brought to the agenda of the Great National Assembly of Turkey by our rule of law. The aim of the formation of irrigation units is to maintain a continuous irrigation operation, to create an auditable and accountable transparency structure. With the current arrangement, the irrigation forces have been restored to a unique structure by special law. The newly formed irrigation troops have been able to form a unit that can water their own land with water that belongs to our villages. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are not a water-rich country, as we say above. The AK PARTY, which is well aware of the situation, has not let the water flow and has signed on to very important investments in water. The year-long but unfinished GAP project has come to an end thanks to the investments made by our AK PARTI power. We wish him well for our country. Again, the Conium Plains Project was accelerated by the establishment of the Coal Plain Project Regional Development Administration in 2011, and in 2011, the Blue Tunnel was combined with two ends of the Blue Tunnel, a hundred years of dreams.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0069par0581	What does this have to do with the irrigation unit? Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0068par0582	In this regard, our EC PARTY has been seen to have made this subject, considered a dream for our country, a reality. The Lion Plain Project will bring water to the barren, thirsty, water - longing lands that concern cities such as Iconia, Aksaray, Niğde. Again, the Yamula Dam and Watering Project, which concerns the districts of Avanos, Kozaklı and Hadjibektaş, my constituency, is very important. The project, which started in 2002, began in 2003 and was launched in 2005. With this project, a very important area will be watered. Like this, many water projects have been implemented that we cannot end by counting in time. The expression "Turkish" is now in history, and the water is flowing and turned into "Turkish." Our power takes measures not only for the surface waters, but also for the underground waters so that water can be used economically and efficiently. In this regard, 50% grants from the Ministry of Agriculture to work on the spread of drip irrigation systems are very important. Dear lawmakers, as it turns out, the EC PARTI has passed a law by bringing a text that the irrigation troops have agreed on to the Parliamentary General Assembly and has cleared a legal void. By developing policies related to subterranean and subterranean waters, he has worked and continued to provide efficient and economic use of water. Again, encouraging the watering system for economic use, making ponds and dams, taking precautions by switching to the closed-pressure irrigation system, which will minimise water damage by leaving classic methods of water transport. As we explained, the AK PARTY's power is decisively doing its job. It's all done, we can't say there's nothing left to do. But as the AK PARTY, we continue to do what needs to be done in the right place and in the right time. I'd like to talk to you about some of the issues mentioned here by the character speaking in favor of the group proposal. Again, in terms of electricity debts, a bag number 6111 in our power was allowed to be erased by the law and by the low interest interest of debt and by the removal of interest in advance payment. It provides 50% grant support for the use of renewable energy. As I said earlier, our country is not a water-rich country. Since both above ground and underground water are poor in resources, we must use water carefully and efficiently. So we're trying to balance the water by using water counters, but it turns out that it needs time to create infrastructure, and after that, with the law that we're going to discuss after this agenda, it's intended to delay the implementation of this law for a period of time, in order to give it to our farmer and our country. We have no intention of cutting off the farmer's water here. If we continue to use the water underground and above ground, our farmer will eventually be completely dehydrated. Therefore, we must take certain measures to prevent our farmer from being completely dehydrated. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that we are against the motion to investigate by the MHP Group, and I would like to salute your grand delegation and our dear nation.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0070par0593	Thank you, Mr. Gökturk.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0068par0594	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0070par0596	The third speaker of the group's proposal is Farit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0071par0599	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I'd like to speak on behalf of my group on a motion for irrigation troops on behalf of the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, this is water. Water is sacred, water is not opposed because water is everything to us. The existence of mankind is absolute, with the existence of water. Dear friends, my friend, who was just quoted on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, spoke of the word "designed to their fates for many years. " I've been fighting here for 11 years about irrigation troops. You know, the irrigation troops were tied to the Ministry of Internal Affairs until the last year of last semester. Of course, the Home Office was running traffic officers for watering troops. For years we said, brother, water is water, water is bread, its place is DSI. For years we have defended it. We said, "Let the irrigating troops be under the protection of the DSI, and let our farmer be especially in the care of the DSI concerning water." But we were wrong. For two years this law has been passed, and we've always thought that the DSI will contribute, support, and support the irrigation troops. Unfortunately, there's no change. Dear friends, the DSI has to provide technical support. Watering troops have no financial power. In Turkey, 90% of the channels watered by irrigation troops are open channels. The DSI did it 20 years ago, thirty years ago, giving these channels to the irrigation unit. Now there's so much water in the canals used by this irrigation unit that when you look from where the water is coming out to where it's going to go, it's nine tenths of the water is gone, my friends. So, first of all, if the DSI is going to benefit from the irrigation units, the irrigation troops have to go through the absolute closed channel system; it has to go through for the country, it has to go through for waste. The open-channel system is taking water efficiency in Turkey, water efficiency in agriculture, and we are in no way useful, my friends. Now let the DSI take over, let the DSI take over. But wherever there is a malfunction, the DSI doesn't support it, wherever there is trouble, the DSI doesn't support it. Mr. Secretary -- we've been yelling here for years -- so why did you give the DSI protection to watering troops? You didn't do anything. For two years, the DSI hasn't struck a nail in watering troops, but it's starting to control the budget of watering troops. Dear friends, there are irrigation troops in Turkey connected to a DSI, and there are irrigation co-ops. How about two different prices, fellas? A village is getting water from its irrigation co-op, and a village is getting water from its irrigation unit. He wants 40 liras a acre from a village because the DSI says you can't take it down. But the irrigation co-op in another village wants $5 per acre. So, you're going to produce the same product, and you're going to get 40 liras an acre for the same product. Because why? The DSI determines the price, the government of the irrigation units does not determine who they are, and you can't get less than 40 lira per turn. On the other hand, watering co-ops that belong to the Department of Agriculture get $3 per acre, my friends. What kind of competition is that, guys? Is there such a price difference between cooperative and irrigation troops in one country who aim at the same goal, just to serve agriculture? So somebody's got to figure this out, it's not. Again, there are forces using attractive water, so charming friends: there's water sold by high-rises channel without using electricity in any way, and there's high-powered water in places that have no appeal. Now it's the same village again. Someone's taking advantage of the charming water. One's out of charm. Two separate irrigation units, one with electricity costs, the other with zero electricity costs. But it's the same price against the peasant, my friends. Don't, don't. These troops are the lifeblood of Turkish agriculture, these troops are everything in Turkish agriculture, our village, our producer's bread, friends. You can't be so neglected. As a suggestion, we say that watering troops, irrigation co-ops, are not different. If the irrigation co-ops are giving attractive water for $5 per acre, why shouldn't the irrigation troops give it away? The D.S.I.'s putting in a narc, guys. Again, Mr. Minister began to put clocks in the village's own well water instead of going to the closed channel, where he could get 100 percent of the revenue in the irrigation units. Mr. Secretary, first go shut down these open channels, raise the water yield here, then look for the villager's well. It's over, the villager's well is left. But if you throw a rock in that well, one day somebody's gonna put somebody in that well. Don't play with the bread, peasant's bread. For example, underground waters to be discussed today. It's all over, the peasant's water is left, the peasant's bread is left. My dear friends, if you want efficiency, make sure that you put the irrigation troops on an open channel into a closed channel, water efficiency will increase by 100 percent, and your turnover from the village is lowering the price of 40 lira, 45 lira, 50 lira. If there's $5 in the co-op, $50 together, there's gonna be hell to pay, fellas. They produce the same product. Dear friends, again, above the irrigation units, we've said it over and over again, there's a staff load. Since you're the judge of the irrigation units, then they'll be signed to the DSI staff for the social rights of the staff here, and you'll use these personnel in the most efficient way. So our friends in the irrigation unit work for six months, they don't work for six months. But when the law comes out, don't keep it here many times, let's transfer the bride troops to the contract staff at the DSI, use these staff in the most efficient way. Unfortunately, they didn't. My dear friends, in the end, the troops are unclaimed, the troops are in debt, the troops are in debt, the villagers and the villagers... because they can't produce, they can't make the money, they can't collect the money, there's trouble between the troops and the villagers. So if you want right, justice, bring the attractive one to the same level once you're not attractive. We must have a different view of the watering forces that use electricity here. Again, the price difference between troops and co-ops... 50 liras an acre on one, $5 an acre on the other. At this price, if the cooperatives can do this, why shouldn't the troops? We need to raise that price to the level of cooperatives. For him, the irrigation troops are unclaimed, Mr. Water Minister didn't take care of it, the irrigation troops are still orphans, still orphans. It's over, and now it's time for him to step into the village's well, but one day someone's gonna drown in that well. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0072par0613	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. The last speaker of the group's proposal is İbrahim Binici, Şanliurfa MP. Mr. Rider, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0073par0616	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, the MHP group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. The growing need for food, depending on the increasing population of our country, is only possible with sustainable agricultural policies. Today it is imperative that these resources be developed, monitored and evaluated in an efficient way to benefit from limited soil and water resources. Given the technical and economic conditions in our country, the waterable area is estimated to be 8.5 million hectares. Today, the total land, which can be watered by both state investment and public resources, is around 4.5 million hectares. Turkey has watering systems that have not completed its development in 40 years. The AKP government continues to pump hope into our farmers, especially in connection with the watering part of the GAP project. Dear lawmakers, because of many years of wrong policies in our country, our farmers who deal in agriculture and animalism have become unable to produce or sell what they produce. Although input prices have continued to increase, our producers have fallen into debt due to the constant or minimal increase in prices of their products. Due to the lack of adequate loans from the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops, our producers had to use loans from private banks with interest rates ranged from 20% to 50%. So the local farmer had to perform and sell his house, his farm, his livestock. BY DEDAS, because of their agricultural irrigation debts, our farmers, whose electricity was cut, had to sit by candlelight. The lucky farmer, by his own means, opens deep water wells, buys divers and electricity, pays for water search and use licenses. He spends about 10 to 15,000 dollars on each well. The number of irrigated troops established in Turkey for the purpose of watering agricultural areas has increased by more than 400. These troops are trying to bring water into the 410,000 hectares of nearly 2 million farmers, but, however, the 418 irrigation unit's finances, the SGK, the electricity, the personnel debt has reached $800 million. In order to reduce farmers' irrigation costs and ensure efficient use of their agricultural fields, State Waterworks has established channels, and has transferred their businesses to watering troops. The troops also form their own staff and perform their efforts to water agricultural areas with the wages they receive from farmers. However, due to the failure of farmers to pay their wages and the accumulation of debts, these troops are now in the process of closing. Especially in my constituency, Şanliurfa, some 150 to 200 metres of deep water wells are being dug, and in comparison, they are dragged into a terrible debt swamp by pulling electricity from two or three kilometers. Either he who divides or he who owns the land is doomed. With this, it should be known that agriculture policy is no longer really possible, especially in Turkey, that our farmer is miserable. Now, the water flow is paid between 20 and $30 euros for the water supply provided by the irrigation troops, while those who have dug deep wells of their own means stand at cost of between 100 and 120,000 dollars. If you think about a cotton planter, they sell their product for the same price. Hence, our farmers are in a very difficult position. At the point of the immediate cost reduction, the government, government officials, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. State Water Affairs General Directorate have made great sacrifices. In order to do so, it is imperative that our government grow to the rescue of the local farmer, otherwise agriculture is not possible, it is impossible. However, due to farmers' inability to pay their electricity fees and the accumulation of their debts, these troops are now in the process of closing. At this stage, the debt of the troops, which have reached 418, must be restructured. Dear MPs, the number of irrigation troops in Turkey is 388, and the number of irrigation troops in Şanliurfa is 22. The debts of these units -- property, social security institutions, energy and personnel debts -- amounted to 391 million 202,000 liras today. In this case, it is impossible for these troops to stand. For him, it is imperative that the troops be restructured, if necessary, to restructure their debt. In the future, he will really cause our farmers great trouble as a whole. With these feelings, the entire General Assembly salutes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0074par0626	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Talks on the nationalist movement group proposal have been completed.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0075par0628	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit01spe0074par0629	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the group's motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Congressmans, now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 13,02,2013 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 30/01/2013, İstanbul MP Sulejman Çelebi and 32 MPs issued the Parliamentary research proposal (689 rows) to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the purposes of investigating and determining the problems of our citizens in the Turkish-based EU countries. lu) has been taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and recommended to be read in Wednesday's 13/02/2013 presentations and their talks in the same dated combination. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0076par0018	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party's Party of Republican People's Party on the basis of a motion by the Republican People's Party on the investigation of the problems of our friends of Turkish origin who work abroad. I salute the High Council with love. Dear friends, one side to the left, one side to the struggle for life, the longing for life, the life to work for years, the hard struggle and all the rights earned. The basis of the Turkish-European Union partnership law, which covers almost all areas of social life, includes principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination. It is assumed that we have equal rights in working and social security in the European Union, but even today it is not possible to say that the assumption is adopted by member states. Attempts to change the existing Turkey-European Union partnership law and to make additional agreements to the law are deeply concerned about our 5 million citizens of Turkey. One of the important processes that concerns our citizens is the re-enactment agreement that Turkey and the European Union officials received on June 22, 2012, when they met in Brussels. At the same time, the Council of the European Union launched the process of visa exemption for citizens of Turkey. First of all, the visa has been requested as a process for a re-enactment agreement, not a well-intentioned step. A visa cannot already be applied for service servers under the Turkish-European Union partnership law. Moreover, the European Court of Justice of the Union -- the EUAD and local courts -- has numerous decisions in this regard. A visa exemption does not mean that Turkish citizens can come to countries of the European Union whenever they want to. The EUAD resolutions declared that a Turkish citizen convicted of any crime will not be deported after he has served his sentence, while the rebuttal agreement, which has been initialized by the Ministry of the European Union, causes EUAD decisions to be eliminated. The negativity of the rebuttal agreement is very serious, dear friends. Under the agreement, all persons who do not provide the conditions for entering, being or staying in the country of the member state will be accepted back on the basis of the application of a member state, provided that it is proven to be a citizen of Turkey, without the need to carry out another procedure, other than the procedures envisioned in this agreement. This agreement is the problem of our citizens who live in the European Union, all of Turkey's origins. This is also the problem of all our citizens who will now enter the European Union. Treating people like goods is the most fundamental crime of mankind. A process that has been achieved and worked so far is about to be wasted, fighting in the context of social rights. Other problems that people who live abroad face and want solutions are these, dear friends. Here is the Assembly of our fellow workers from Europe, from Germany, who work at work. They have problems with retirement. Retirement can only be included in bilateral agreements if the conditions for the care of Turkish citizens residing abroad or those they are obliged to look after in Turkey are included. Therefore, a study of bilateral agreements under general health insurance should be carried out to reduce the risks that may arise to a minimum and to renew bilateral agreements that do not include short-term insurance. It is sought to document work in countries with bilateral agreements to borrow premiums for Turks residing abroad. In practice, many of our citizens have worked as fugitives in these countries, unable to meet the requirement for documenting their work. Therefore, a new debt right based solely on the statement must be defined. Can a legal change be made in this framework? It is also necessary to investigate, dear friends. Passport fees are an important problem. Due to a high increase in passport fees, an unfair situation occurred three years ago, four years ago, when we received a visa for 40 Turkish liras, our friends now have a rate of up to 500 Turkish liras. This senseless increase in passport allowance must be corrected immediately. The other thing is, language requirement in family reunions, dear friends. Many countries of Europe are subject to a language course first to brides and grooms from Turkey, but the person passing the test is allowed to come to Europe. These trials are not required of many citizens of countries such as Honduras, Japan, but are being tested by foreign countries so that Turkish citizens may be able to marry, as if their tests were not enough. In the countries of the European Union, there are also serious problems with my dear friends, Muslim graveyards, and Turkish nursing homes. Turkish citizens who want to be buried in their home countries are shown a place in the cemetery. These places are leased for, like, five, ten, fifteen, thirty years, and if the time goes by and there's no money, the tomb is torn up and sold to someone else. So our citizens in Europe have such a serious problem. The Muslim graveyards in Europe must not be disturbed forever. In this regard, the common solution must be found, with the countries of the European Union and with the member states. In accordance with the above issues I have stated, we expect your contributions and support to this research proposal, which should be carried out for our citizens who live in the European Union, where there is a shortage and in the coming period, and in order to determine their solution proposals. All our citizens who work in Germany are waiting for this. Without the opposition-citiator distinction, come... there is a need for a congressional investigation of what I've told you about your foreign workers here, but with a lot of their problems being discussed. I'm, you know, I'm with the DİSK General Staff. DİSK is also today's anniversary, year 46. So, I'm also celebrating the anniversary of DİSK, a major democracy struggle, resistance, and the founding anniversary of the DİSK that fought against the coups against the resistance of September 12th. I bow before them with respect, with respect, with love, before all of you, for the rights he has given to the working class. I'd especially like the power to support this motion, and I'd like to give all of you some respect.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0077par0034	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. The second speaker on the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Tülin Erkal Kara, Bursa MP. Mr. Kara, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0038	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and I have made a commitment against the CHP Group proposal.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0079par0039	Against you?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0040	I salute you all. First of all, as a brother who was born and raised abroad, I give my regards to the delegation upstairs. Recently, for ten years, we know very well how our citizens in Europe look at Turkey, Mr. Süleyman. I'm a brother from within.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0080par0043	Let's go with you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0044	Plus, I want to tell you about something here in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we, the AK PARTY Group, are joining seven friends, 3 CHPs, 1 MPHP and 1 BDP MP are joining us. Now, as for the problems in Europe, we know them well: racism, discrimination, Islamophobia, anti-Islamicism. You know, since 9/11 attacks, there's been a very serious struggle against Islamic religion. But I'd like to point out here from the stand: there's been a very heavy attack in Norway, and about 90 people have died, so can I get off this stand and say something called Christianophobia, friends? I can't tell you. Why? It's an event that connects a person or a group, isn't it? You can't target the whole community, that's one. Secondly, I'd like to emphasize with great sadness. I can see very clearly in the meetings where we attended the Council of Europe in the period: Some of the opposition, fellow lawmakers, looking at everything the word Islam goes on, looking at what the southern Greek Cypriots, Armenians, Greeks see as a common expression. I mean, there's also an anti-Islamic anti-Islamicism among some lawmakers. Guys, we're going the wrong way, you're going the wrong way, and I'm really sorry. I mean, there's no point in getting up and turning this into a religious issue and putting Islam in such a bad position. We've been keeping an eye on all your criticisms abroad, but I also want to say that we're following, and I'm very sad, and I feel sorry for my own country. Let's discuss everything, but it's not a crying wall, guys. There is no point in expressing our own woes in the Council of Europe and standing up in front of Europe and displaying a very negative picture. It will not benefit you, nor will it benefit our own citizens. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Guys, learn to listen. We're listening to you until the end, so please try to listen to us with that respect.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0081par0051	What do we say, what do you say!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0052	Second, look, I've been interested in one thing for the last month, two cases in Belgium. The brothers Solomon and Uður Aygün were killed in a battle, and these two brothers have been lying in the morgue for two and a half years. Where's his human rights? You know, when you get up and blame our country, we've done this in every arena, and we've done this badly. Brother, try to be a little objective, so please give Caesar his due. Don't approach us ideologically here, that's what I'm asking you to do.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0081par0053	Did he say a word like that, an ideological word? Please don't turn this around.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0054	I mean, Turkey's making a breakthrough, Turkey's moving forward, so please don't interfere. Work it out, you guys. Don't be so jealous.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0081par0056	It's a shame.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0057	You're getting up, our economy is getting worse every once in a while. Brother, go open up the values in Europe and read them, please read them, so what's wrong with our economy?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0081par0058	Brother, talk to the worker. The citizen in Germany is a citizen of speech.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0059	On every platform, in every arena, you get up. No, Turkey's getting worse. No, Turkey's like this. There's no such thing, my friends. Turkey's progress is going very well. You just relax, relax.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0082par0060	Yours is getting better, but the citizen's is getting worse.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0083par0061	What do we say, what do you say?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0062	We will continue to defend all Turkey's rights in every arena, both inside and out, and we will always try to make decisions in favour of Turkey. Despite your criticism, despite your opposition, I'm going to do my defenses here at the end of everything, and I'd like to convey it once and for all. Guys, now, we call it racism, we call it discrimination. Come on, let's fight this. You know, we call it basic rights and human rights, we're talking about human rights, but unfortunately in the European Union, we're still discussing human rights. You think there's a hell of a place in heaven... there's no such thing, brother. We've made Turkey very beautiful here. And rest assured, in spite of all your obstructions, I wish that, let's put this on the table, let's discuss it here, we have our groups, we have our representatives, we have our government, in the end, even if you don't agree. Let us all work together to make sure that this country goes further. None of the Turks abroad have a problem with all the policies in the AK PARTY. As long as we don't bend over there. What I'm saying is that I'm the daughter of a household.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0084par0066	What about those who got ripped off at the lighthouse?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0067	The situation in the former's Turkey is clear, and the current state of Turkey is obvious. Come on, let's sit down, I'll tell you. What have we been through? What did we see in the old days? I can sort them out one by one.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0085par0069	Did you or did you not lose money at the lighthouse?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0070	Just don't complain about Turkey in Europe, friends.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0086par0071	The president's wife went to the ECHM, tell me that.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0072	That won't do you any good, and it won't do your group's vice presidents any good. You know, you can do it for your own president, but I don't feel comfortable putting our country in so much danger. I'm very critical of you here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, let's just say we're a country that was nominated long ago. Friends, please listen, I'm paying my respects, so please listen.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0087par0075	Don't get excited, relax.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0076	I'm here to address our own citizens. They know exactly where everything is going, and they know exactly where it's going, but we also want to show you this point. Now, we say, what is the difference between us as a candidate country and other countries in Europe, as a country that had long before applied for fifty-six years? I even know we're one step ahead, and I see it with my own eyes. Across an ageing and aging Europe, there's a renovating Turkey that's getting younger. If they won't accept us, it's up to them to know.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0088par0079	I thought you were in. What about the fireworks?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0080	We -- I'm telling you guys again -- at the point where the whole situation is improving, you know, we do whatever we can, we keep doing it. But, please, friends, no one criticizes anyone's religion. We, Alhamdulillah, were born Muslim, we are willing to die Muslim, but please, you go out there and put Islamophobia at once and you don't have it, sir, here's the situation in Turkey: Turkey is antilateral, Turkey antidemocratic... (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Speak with your eyes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0089par0081	Ask Mrs. Hayrünisa!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0082	Please... please... there's no such thing. I see it, friends... please, friends...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0089par0083	Ask Mrs. Hayrünisa!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0084	A second... yes... you didn't have our President's wife, our Prime Minister's wife, read their children. Mindsets like you... have been established while I was studying at Istanbul University. I witnessed the tears of thousands of our sisters.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0090par0086	Way to go! Bravo!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0087	I said, "What the hell? Where are we going when there's a ban on headscarf in a Muslim country?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0091par0088	You've been in power for ten years!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0089	I studied at the same time as my European, Moroccan, Tunisian, Algerian sisters. They were headscarves, and their teachers were strangers, a Christian woman. I mean, can that happen, guys? Yeah, don't be so segregated. Don't be segregated, brother! Don't be segregated!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0092par0090	You're the one who discriminated!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0078par0091	I repeat, I repeat, to the friends who went to these foreign commissions, please, it's not a crying wall. Come together, let's discuss what we have here, let's share it, but when we get there, we'll go as one heart, hand in hand, and we'll try to make the best of our whole Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute your high council. Thank you for your patience.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0093par0095	Mr. Kara, thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0094par0097	Mr. Congressman Turkey said we complained about him in Europe, he insulted our party's corporate personality, and I want to answer.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0093par0098	He didn't insult me, but here's two minutes. She told me what she really meant. Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0094par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. We didn't complain about our country, but if you're looking for someone to complain about your country, have a chat with the wife of the President, before she tells you how to complain about her country, that's one, that's one. RECEP PRISON (Isparta) He sued for injustice. Second of all, I'm having a really hard time understanding you. You decide to sell the sugar factories, you decide to shut them down, and then you give up this decision: the Prime Minister who decided to give up the decision, the Prime Minister who gave up the decision, the sheet sheets who were thanked again, the Prime Minister. Then he looks, and a minister comes out, and he says, "There's no teacher from the disabled." He hurts the disabled, and then there's a government chief who says, "Okay." Then he's thanked. They thanked you for bringing 3 SBS to the children. You're the one who gave up 3 SBS, and brought back 1 SBS. Again, you're the one who's been thanked.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0095par0108	What does that have to do with teasing?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0094par0109	You, who call Syria my brother Assad, are thanked; you who call it Kanlim Esed, are thanked again. You who walk with a rope, you who discuss the execution, and you who send TVs to the Imran. The president's system is the result of an imposition of American imperialism or a wannabe. You who are applauded and applauded, you are the one who is seeking today's presidential debate.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0096par0112	Come to tease me, pick on me.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0094par0113	It's you who say, "I'll see you again, even if it costs my political life." I am the prosecutor of Ergenekon. You are the visitor of Ergenekon. You're the one who made the law for the long term of imprisonment, and you're the one who complains about it. Look, we want to investigate the problems of our workers abroad, where they're waiting, look up there. Our workers from abroad are watching you upstairs, so we'll see the vote in a moment. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I say thank you, all of you, who will vote for the establishment of this commission, who will vote against it, and all of our people will witness it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0097par0120	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0098par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0097par0122	Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0098par0123	Mr. President, the speaker...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0099par0124	He gave me a name, a name.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0097par0125	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute. Please...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0098par0126	The speaker, by mentioning my name...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0099par0127	Mr. President, he gave me a name.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0097par0128	Wait a minute... I can't hear you yelling.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0100par0129	Don't get angry, Mr. President, don't get your sugar up.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0097par0130	Please shut up and listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0101par0131	Mr. President, the speaker has made an assessment of my name by slandering us and slandering us beyond the scope of the purpose here, by not mentioning my name, and by expressing my name on this stand, which I did not express in any way. I want word on that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0097par0132	Here you are, sir, two minutes... please, by keeping your wreath...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0101par0135	I do, sir, and there are those who don't, so let them see it the same way, the same way. Mr. President, dear friends, I've come up with a very good approach here. I have no intention of creating this approach with my own preference and creating a new chaos here. I know about Europe as well as Madame, and I live every day to see what the problems of workers in Europe are, and I'm getting information from them, and there are friends from the AK PARTI, and we have friends from other political views, and they're transmitting it. I bring those things to the agenda of the High Council. What's that got to do with anything? Now, is there a whole world here in this stand where we're doing evaluations against Islam, I don't know, like we're accusing other things? Of course, as citizens of this country, as lawmakers abroad, it is the duty of this Parliament to face Turkey's problems together, together to address their problems. Of course we'll do it together, but if they have problems, it's unfair to not bring them here, to twist the suggestion here, to give them an approach as if they didn't have this problem, as if the opposition had invented it, at least to work there, working abroad. What I'm saying is that the Minister in charge of the European Union has made an important initial. If this paraffin is implemented, then workers -- five million concerned -- will be extradited from abroad immediately, without trial, without trial. We're trying to look into their problems, even make it a subject of polemics... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At least it's a lack of conscience, it's an injustice, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0102par0141	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. In favour of the proposal, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, the deputy from Marseilles. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0103par0149	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, after a few very exciting meetings, I think there's a need for a little peace. I applauded our fellow Republican People's Party spokesman and applauded our sister speaking for the Justice and Development Party. They both said the right thing. After all, it's not the subject of a party, it's the problem of all our citizens working abroad, looking for bread abroad. I don't think there's any point in trying to contribute here, in drawing it away with ideological approaches. So he called her a listener, called her that, and that covered her head, and that opened her head... their issues were a little different. So now there's a third generation coming out of the country. The third generation's integration problem is over, and there's a problem of holding on. The third generation has begun to be wasted. A very important part of these children have been deprived of ownership, so at one point they are unable to remember their Turkishness and their Muslimism. I think that's the point. So we have about 4 million citizens in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria. Two-and-a-half million citizens of the European Union, not another 1.5 million. But this third generation, if we lay a little bit more on our ears, they'll be destroyed before they get here again as a wasted generation. You got to look at it that way. They have different issues in their place. For example, they mentioned earlier, the matter of passport fees, the issue is that they suffer very seriously. I'm a member of the European Union's Integration Commission, and they're talking about it everywhere we go; I think that your power will re-arrange passport fees. Do you know that only 5 million people have passports in Turkey? The very free country! Freedom, freedom of travel, to me, is the most important of freedoms. When we set out for freedom of travel, there are only five million passports, and this one has 1,300,000 official passports, which is gray and green because of the mission. 3 million 700,000 people travel in Turkey, and that's only 5 percent of the population. Look, you can't talk about freedom of travel in a country that travels 5 percent. And for the most important reason, passport fees are crucial. It used to be $100, down to $15, but to me, it's a constitutional obstacle, so it's an obstacle to getting out of the country. If you think about the travel barrier in Turkey, you don't need to dive into the other part of freedoms. They also have complaints that troops are up from 5,000 euros to 10,000 euros, and we're calling on our Ministry of National Defense to do the job. Earlier, when he first came out, it was 5,000 marks, then it was euros, 5,000 euros, now -- we didn't like it -- as our budget was open, it went up to 10,000 euros. A significant part of our citizens, they can't get permission from their workplaces, they can't come into the army, they're fugitives when they can't come into the army, but they want to work, pay for it, but the expensive military price prevents them from doing military service. Today, some 2,700,000 people -- 950,000 German citizens -- live in the Netherlands, 365 thousand people in France, 380,000 in Austria, 233,000 in our citizens in the countries of the European Union. The first group to go to Germany left in 1961. This group was expected to collect a certain amount of capital and return to Turkey, but unfortunately that didn't happen, and now third-generation immigrants have emerged. Some of them became employers, scientists, athletes, artists, but some of them didn't get any education, and they're incompatible in the countries where they live. There are around 140,000 Turkish businesses in Europe. These businesses employ 640,000 people. And their annual turnover is over 50 billion euros. Turkish consumption spending in Western Europe is also around 23 billion euros. Look, the situation of Turkish citizens in Europe in the European economy that is having a recession is a little more important. Because there's a problem with the European economy, there's an elderly population, there's a population that doesn't focus on consumption. The Turkish population in Germany and other European countries has a young and consumer population, so there is a 4m population among the countries of the European Union that has become the engine of the economy today in Europe. If you look at some other problems based on the problem of integration, unemployment is the primary problem. In 2005, a survey conducted by the General Directorate for Family and Social Studies in Germany said that the biggest problem of 32 per cent of Turks is unemployment. The problem follows the language problem, which is around 14 percent. The language issue is an important problem that concerns many issues from the education of children to the employment of adults, from the integration of our citizens to their relations with Turkey. Moreover, the problem is not simply learning the language of the country. New generations also have problems learning and using Turkish. The equality of opportunities in education in harmony is important for Turkish children to be taught native language, culture and history. In order for our citizens to be equipped in the globalized world, they are desired to have equal control of both Turkish and the language of the country they live in. Turkish native language education will also help our citizens learn the languages of the countries they are in. The number of Turks who view German prejudice and foreign hostility as the most important issue is about 10 per cent. We also see in cases that have been reflected in the media at various times, where foreign hostility has reached in Germany and in the Netherlands. Mr. President Gul sends good messages to both sides during the 50th anniversary of the Turkish labour migration in Germany. But a significant part of these messages aren't true. The 50th year of the Turkish migration to Germany is also a dramatic failure story. The point for both the German and Turkish people is not to win, but to lose. Three generations of Turks have been devastated in Germany and Turkey. Today, the Turks in Germany have turned into useless people who are burdened with welfare boxes. Germany rejects and does not want Turks. The Turkish entry into the European Union without a visa is actually blocked because of this Germany. Most of them live on taking about 600 to 700 euros a month from German welfare boxes. Turkey's entrepreneurs, whose numbers are around 80,000, are mostly turnabouts, marketers, storekeepers, barbers, tailors, etc. They're only dealing with the economic turnover of their store. There are many reasons for this sad painting that came out today. The first is that Turkish workers, called the first generation, should be treated exactly like lemons, which are squeezed with pulp by Germany. Since there was no such problem at the time, of course, no one dealt with the integration or harmony of these workers. The first generation of Turkish workers were imprisoned in Germany, part prison, part concentration camp, and every method was used to isolate them from the German community. These Turkish youths, who now grew up in Germany, did not know, were truly an interesting place for films. In those years -- I'm talking about the 60s and 70s -- the janitor, the guard -- had Nazi soldiers left over in the post of war. Most war memories were ex-military with various injuries. They carried out their work in the spirit of a guard, more like reminiscing about the memories of the concentration camp that they themselves had been exposed to. Turkish workers at 21 a.m. It had to be at this place at 100. It was forbidden to go out at night. Of course, Turkish workers didn't listen to these bans, so there were a lot of fights, fights, and incidents. In the end, the Turks escaped this captivity by taking one house at a time as a group, then as a single house. The Germans are very attached to their memories. In the 50th year of migration, as a museum, to me, let them make a Turkenheim, and everyone will see the disgrace that the Germans had done to the Turks fifty years ago. Yes, the development years of the first generation of Germany... made good and bad money in those years, the Turks, but their foreign money was neither good for Germany, nor for Turkey. A very serious part of this money was wasted on Islamic conglomerates, which later began in the 80s. The money collected in the mosques evaporated in the hands of miserable, dishonest people. The dozens of conglomerates, like a fraud machine, melted the German Turks' money. The amount of Turkish workers' missing money in this furya... some say it's about 40 billion euros. I think it should be our first duty to pursue these impostors who have squandered money while Germany is being investigated in the Netherlands, Austria, and the Turks' problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0104par0164	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. The last speaker against the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı. Mr. Glorious, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0105par0168	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party, and with respect to the General Assembly. The General Assembly's agenda is clear today. Underground wells will be discussed under the Law Proposal 410, where the deadline for setting up measurement systems and quota implementation is proposed, and due to the need to end it today, we are against the group proposal by the Republican People's Party, once again, with respect.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0104par0171	Mr. Glorious, thank you. I'll put the group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0106par0175	Request roll call.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit02spe0104par0176	We've got a roll call. Yes, let's take their names, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çam, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Oz, Mr. Onur, Mr. Güler, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Toptaş. All right, guys, we're gonna do a roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0104par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the Republican People's Party Group's proposal was voted was not enough. Now, with the electronic device, we're gonna do a roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... The proposal was not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Civil Charter proposal for amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with Konya MP Kerim Özkul and İzmir MP Ali Ashış and 12 MPs; Eskişehir MP Kazım Kurt's proposal for the Law to be changed in the Underworld Waters; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyetist Movement Party Group Chair and İzmir MP Oktay Vural; Manisa MP Özgür Special; Kırşehir MP Abdullah İşkan and 10 MPs' Report of Laws on the Similar Things of Agriculture, Forests and Villages. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 410 rows. He chooses Vaap on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, MP of Mersin. Mr. Chooser, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0107par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Law Proposal 410. My dear friends, our region is going through an important process, developments in the Middle East... of course Turkey is an important country in this region, a land-worthy country. We're a country that has strategic significance, population structure, demographic structure, historical history, a lot of significance. Yesterday, an incident took place at the Cilveg Eye Border Gate, which filled us all with sorrow. Regardless of its nature, Turkish citizens, Syrian citizens, were eventually killed there, dozens of injured. These aren't random developments, of course, but there's a history, there's a background. What happened, what ended, what happened to the savings of the Justice and Development Party towards Middle Eastern politics, what warnings the opposition made about it, what we need to refresh our memory. (x) 410 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. There's been a matter of minefields that we've been discussing here for days in the last 23 · Global Voices Parliament. You know, the Syrian-Turkey border, the longest land border in Turkey, is about 900 kilometers. In that region, the mines would be wiped out in an area of over 200,000 acres, and for years we really would have removed that wall of shame from the minefields that we had drawn between us and our neighbors. As a party, as the People's Party, we were not against it, but there was one issue that the government insisted on: let's get these mines cleaned up, let's hire this place for forty-nine years in exchange for service to the company that cleans these mines. We said it was wrong at the time; that this area was a fire ring, the importance of that region. But for some reason, the government insisted that their bill pass through Parliament. But at the point where we're coming in today, or we can't help but think that the projection of fluctuations in Egypt, Libya, which actually started in Tunisia in the Middle East, began many years ago. Look, we have a history with Syria. The same empire, under the umbrella of the same empire, from the same faith group, from the same religion, from the same race, from the same race, from the Ottoman Empire until World War I. In the first division war, during the First World War, the aghas of that time drew boundaries. Eventually, a border was drawn to today's Anatolian lands, a 900km border was drawn, and Syria and we became two separate countries. For years, remember the transition from Syria to Turkey, Turkey to Syria, those paintings on TV screens. People couldn't go to see each other for a holiday or a visit. Our trade relations had been weakened, and we had become each other's sworn enemies. The PKK was stationed there, supported by the government in Syria. This brought Turkey and Syria into the war environment. But all this... we're giving you credit. After 2002, you were in power, you said zero with neighbours. You said, "Peace in the land, peace in the world." You said -- the views we signed, slogans -- and you fixed relations with Syria. The volume of trade has improved, the businesses have developed; we've signed joint agreements, we've made trade agreements, our exports have increased to $2 billion. On weekends, it was possible to see Syrian tourists in the Mediterranean, in Gaziantep, in Urbana, in Adana, in Mersin, or to see Turkish tourists from Turkey to Damascus, in Lazkiye. But unfortunately, our friend Syria, that brother Syria, that friend Assad, thanks to you today has been transformed into a bloody dictator Assad. Look, the blood is taking away the body. My concern is... there's violence today, there's fighting, there's war. Unfortunately, you leave the violence there as an inheritance to future generations, to our grandchildren, thanks to the AKP's power. He's settled in with the people. Syria was confused by imperialists, and the Turkish Republic of Turkey's Hukumeti subcontracted it. This is what was carved in the minds of the Syrian people today. People are dying out there, bleeding out there. This pain, this blood, this cry, this tear will not be forgotten easily. This happened because of you, because of AKP power. [[Applause from CHP rows]] From there, tourists were coming to our country, they were coming to our country, we were exporting products from Turkey to Syria, people were leaving, businessmen were leaving. Now that we're here, we've been exported terror from Turkey to Syria, and now we're reaping what we've planted, we've harvested wind and storm. We import terror now, import terrorism now. My dear friends, Proposal 410, as my friends in law enforcement have listed in their motives, is a law proposal that is actually intended for the discipline of underground waters, for the control of underground waters. Basically, the water is a strategic commodity, a strategic issue. It's the same in Turkey today, and it's the same in the world. As it is known, Turkey... actually has the wrong idea, as if Turkey was considered a water-rich country, but it isn't. But the water we use is for use in the industry or in agricultural production, for drinking water purposes, but for Turkey's own needs. So, what's the point of this law? Like above ground water, underground waters are important. Turkey has 19 billion cubic metres of underground water reserves, but we can safely operate and use about 15 billion cubic metres of this. What does the Ministry want to do, or what is the purpose of my fellow lawmakers? You know, whether it's in the industry, whether it's in agricultural production or underground water, it's for production, industrial production, agricultural production. A regulation has been published in accordance with Law 167 rows earlier, and it is said that the users of underground water -- these, of course, these drilling wells are licensed wells -- will now be able to use these waters by wearing a meter. We're going to do a preload, and they'll be able to use this water in line with their needs. If they want to get a new license, we have to make a mandatory run for it, and they're going to put these meters in the drilling wells, and then they're going to come back and get a license from us. Now, that deadline expires on February 25th, and the desired progress has not been made. The purpose of making such a law is, in a way, to extend this process. I mean, there's been a failure, and it's been attempted, but it's practically unrequited, and it's still going on. What's being done? What is required of us in this bill? It is said that those who produce zirai or produce industry should have this meter installed within a year, pay for it themselves. If he can't afford it, let's do it as a DSI, but we'll buy it from the owner by 25 percent of the price, and then we'll take it from the DSI. It also leaves the time under the authority of the Council of Ministers; one year, three years, two years, four years, and then changes can be made. If this does not meet the laws of the law, I, the water user, will close the drilling well if it is old, and I will charge the owner to close it. If he already has a new application, if he wants a new license, I won't give it to him. Now, we're trying to come up with a solution like that, so we're going to discipline underground waters. You know, in Turkey, you know, about 30 percent of the tax -- 35 percent of what we call direct taxes -- collects in the name of income tax; 65 percent of the tax is taxed indirectly. The government, as you call it, gets those direct taxes because they're captured by the government. Now, I like to think that in Turkey, the off-the-book economy is 50 percent. There's no difference between setting up a financier at the door of a citizen who makes a profit because of his activities and pays taxes to his government and fulfills that obligation, or planting a body on the head of a user who uses underground water licensed in agricultural production or industry. Something's wrong. Now, there's a lot going on here; there's thousands of wells, and there's those numbers. There are about 400,000 wells in Turkey, and we have about 40 percent of them, 180,000 wells on the loose, 206,000 licensed and public use -- watering cooperatives -- and about 12,000 to 13,000 other wells. Now, 45 percent of that is illegal. What's our problem supposed to be? There's a reserve, underground water, underground resources, which Allah has given us. What should it be to contain them? For one thing, there's got to be an inventory of them, there's got to be a record of them, and you have to make a strict inspection of them, who's driving a illegal dent. Now, we're going to counter-measure. The guy gets a license or a license, so we say: "Hele, you get 2,500-3 out of your pocket." Spend a thousand lira coin, and then we'll think about giving you a license, or we'll think about continuing your registration. Look, there are no measures taken against illegal wells. You know the farmer's condition. The most troubled social class manufacturer class in Turkey. A thousand liras, two thousand liras, three thousand liras may be considered small, but there's a manufacturer in his pocket who can't find a dollar for tea, which is an important burden to him. I mean, where does it come from? And then, I ask you, you're all traveling through rural areas in your constituencies. What are these underground waters used to be brought to the ground? With what energy? It's an energy use, isn't it? Either he's using diesel or he's using electricity. I'm asking you now: Is there a waste, a waste of a commodity that costs so much, so much energy to be used from where it is, and it's paid for? I mean, I'm gonna light up, I'm gonna light up, I'm gonna gas up, I'm gonna motorpump, I'm gonna pull the water, I'm gonna let the meadow go! Is that an understanding? No, but he's the reason: don't waste water. It's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong. I'm not talking about this clause, it's all wrong. Now, you've brought these counters. How are you going to protect it? How are you going to protect the counter from the thief in the middle of the mountain, in the middle of the plain? How are you going to protect it from your enemy, who can come and destroy it? I asked that at the Commission. Insurance companies don't cover that. There's no logical answer, and there's no proper study. How many counters do you need for this job, where do you get it from, what's the cost of it, what's the cost of it, what's the projection of it; there's no serious work on it. The Ministry needs to give it up, and I think this law needs to back off. If you're going to discipline underground waters, as I said in the beginning, you're going to do inventory, you're going to do basin-based work, you're going to set criteria, you're going to set parameters, you're going to collect data, and above all, you're going to do it properly. My dear friends, at the beginning of my discussion of the importance of water, I shared it with you. The story of a Southeast Anatolian Project is a story that has been spoken and told for years in Turkey. Now, in AKP's era of power -- you know, East and Southeast are important to us -- the negotiation process has begun in Turkey. The fight will stop, the terror will stop, the conflict will end, peace and quiet will come, won't it? Turkey will no longer devote its energy to fighting. We started a process like this. So, what's the deal with this process? What's wrong? Terror problem, conflict problem, fight problem, war problem. Where does it happen? He's in the Southeast Anatolian region. What are we gonna do? Of course, there are certain ways to end this conflict. This, of course -- you're fighting terrorism -- has a counterterrorism dimension. There are demands, cultural rights demands. Maybe you'll sit down and talk about it, give your democracy a balance adjustment. But it's got an economic size, it's got a social dimension. What are you going to do? You'll create food for people there. People go up the mountain, don't they? You'll be a deterrent. Any evil comes from an empty person. There's no fighting, no fighting, no disorder in public living where the income level is high. Economics means democracy, democracy means prosperity; they all depend on one another. Now, you're going to invest in the GAP. One of your biggest investments is energy investment. And the nations before you took care of a great many of them. What are you going to do? You're going to do industry, you're going to build factories, you're going to do agricultural-rural development, you're going to do social, cultural investments. What else are you gonna do? You're going to create jobs, invest in intensive labor sectors. What's going on at the beginning of all this? The agricultural sector is coming. Look, what do we need in the agriculture industry? We need irrigation, Mr. Secretary, the D.S.I. is up to you. There are 1,822,000 hectares, or 1,82,000 hectares, which is the DSI's irrigation project. The TIGEM, which has been carried out so far, is 370,000 hectares, including the General Directorate of Agriculture, and the remaining 1.5 million hectares. But you know what's dramatic? The AKP came to power in 2002, with 198 thousand -- I don't say the quarter -- started to water a hectare, as part of this project, as part of the projection. As of the end of 2011, the figure increased to 313,000 hectares. So during that time, 12,700 hectares per year were watered, totaling 14,000 hectares. At this rate -- we don't know how long the AKP will stay in power -- if the AKP continues, Turkey needs 15 years to finish these investments.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0108par0057	Don't worry, they're leaving in 2015, passengers!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0107par0058	A hundred and fifteen years, a hundred and fifteen years, God bless! Now, my dear friends, there's something about power: it burns a kilo of hay, it smokes a truck. You see, it's not like that, it's not like that. They need to burn a truck of hay so they can produce a kilo of smoke and they can't do it. This bill is wrong from beginning to end, it won't solve these problems, it won't help anyone. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0109par0062	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı is a member of the Alliance. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Tin Man, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0110par0066	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the overall Law Proposal of 410 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. The Law on Underwaters No. 167 has been decreed that the well, gallery, tunnel, and so on should not be issued a certificate of use without setting up measurements to identify the amount of underground water to be drawn from, and those who have received an underground water certificate must establish their measurement systems within two years; otherwise, the use documents should be cancelled by the State Waters General Directorate and the owner of the closure costs for the document. The two-year period expires on 25 February 2013. This proposal is envisioned by changing the provisions and setting up measuring devices in wells within a year; it is decided that if those who do not set up a measurement device for use, drinking and using water, the price will be collected by 25 per cent more than that, or set up by the DSI General Directorate within three years of the day. Those who do not comply with these conditions are also expected to be revoked and removed from the owner of the wells and closing costs. The farmer is being set up as if the time is being extended for three years, while three years are being given to the DSI. Within a year, the farmer will either have the meter installed or apply to the DSI to install it. When applying to the DSI, the farmer who has to pay 25 percent more will be cornered. Mr. Secretary, why do you give him a year when he's a farmer, and if he does DSI, you give him three years? Besides, why would you charge the farmer 25 percent more for the meter? Are you a loan shark? Why are you screwing the farmer? And the farmers have signed a pledge to put a meter in their well, and the farmers are being intimidated, deceived. Mr. Secretary, by what right, by what authority do you ask the farmer for a pledge? You have no authority, you are guilty. The AKP government has no faith, mercy, conscience, and mercy. He's cut off the farmer, and now he's trying to cut off his water. After the measurement equipment is installed, about 200 tonnes of water per person's well is expected to be used for the use of around 350 tonnes of water for co-op. No matter what plant you plant, there's no way you can get 200 tons of water from an additional dekarat. With this much water, the crops stay in the field. Therefore, the AKP government tells the farmer that you will not plant the land. With this practice, the farmer won't be able to plant half the land he's planted, he'll have to leave nada. The farmer can't get along, he can barely stand. The AKP government has failed the farmer. There is a saying in Asia Minor that no one has died and no one is crying. You have put the farmer in this position. Mr. Secretary, is the purpose of the AKP government to complete agriculture and farmers in this country? Under the influence of wrong policies in your rule, the farmer is living in the worst time in his history. It is a fact that the Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel and fertilizer and is overwhelmed by heavy input costs and therefore unable to produce. The fact that hay is more expensive than wheat in our country is a concrete indicator of AKP's wrong policies. According to the Department of Agriculture data, in 2002, urethra fertilizer was 237 liras, now 1.110 liras, now nitrate is 176 liras, and now it's up to 830 liras, and it's now up to $4.5 cents a gallon of masothine. The farmer and the peasant can't put diesel in the tractor for lack of money. Why is a farmer being sold at three times the price of cheap diesel for ships, yachts, and abroad for 1.5 million? The AKP government also electrifies and beats the farmer. Five years of inflation has been 46 per cent, while electricity has been increased by a total of 127 per cent. Almost half of electricity bills are generated by illegal electricity money and tax and funds. The electricity used in agricultural irrigation should not be taxed. At least the money stolen by others shouldn't be made to pay the farmer. In addition, irrigation troops and co-ops expect to restructure electricity debts they can't pay for in the past period without interest. Our farmer's loans also grow exponentially every year. The Minister of Agriculture boasts that the farmer's loans have increased 42 times. Many farmers are depressed, having to sell their tractor, their field, to pay off their debts. Another important problem for farmers is that changes and supports are often not paid on time. Why haven't our farmers been paid for wheat premiums, diesels, fertilizers these days? Why are our product quotas down? Why is there the same efficiency rate everywhere? They ask, "What are we going to do with our overproduction? The manufacturer can't feed his animals for lack of money, he's desperate, he can't get a kilo of milk to feed them. There's a lot to say about livestock. After importing meat, animals, even sacrifice, our country has become a country that imports grass and hay. These are, of course, very thoughtful and painful developments. It's hard to be a farmer in Turkey, to be a producer. You'll produce both the world's most expensive entries and sell them for the same price for years. As if all this negativity wasn't enough, instead of waiting for them to admire you for producing you, you're going to fight with imports and people who are trying to drown you, and now they're going to cut off your water. The government is officially implementing policy against farmers and peasants. Mr. Secretary, why is the AKP government oppressing farmers? What's your objective, what's your goal? Dear MPs, the DSI's Underwater Action Plan for the KOP region, which includes the provinces of Konya, Karaman, Aksaray and Niğde, was introduced in 2012. The plan consists of around 100,000 wells in the region, the procedures and basis for the cancellation of licenses and redistribution documents to be covered in licensed wells by users, and the provision of fines and use documents for unlicensed wells. An automatic meter reading system in wells capable of using electricity in irrigation fields has been planned to install a preloaded water meter in well pumps in areas without power lines, followed by an allocation of over 2,000 cubic metres/hectar/years in individuals' wells -- black 200 tons and co-operative wells -- 3,500 cubic metres/hectar/years -- that is 350 tons of water. It's against farmers, it's against agricultural rooms, it's against the Chamber of Agriculture Engineers, it's against the KOP Regional Development Administration, it's against watering troops, it's against watering co-ops, it's against everyone you can understand. In this regard, I did it on my own, I did it. The logic is being acted on. So, Mr. Secretary, you can't do this in your own way. With this practice, the country's agriculture and our farmers will suffer a great deal. The head of the KOP Regional Development Administration has drawn up a report that reveals the woes of this plan and the loss of plant production in the region, and has submitted it to the information of the concerned. Minister, here's the report. The report estimates that if the plan is implemented in the current way, the region's plant production revenue in watery agriculture, around $5 billion annually, will decrease by $1.7 billion, or 35 per cent. With the impact of animal production and agriculture-based industrial sectors, it is clear that the loss could be increased. The current plan was implemented without detailing the process management and priorities, regardless of the sustainability of the agricultural structure of the KOP region, which has an important land source for Turkey and the world's food security. Industrial plants are planted in an important area in the KOP region. How will the factory's raw materials be met without sufficient planting? Do you plan to shut down the sugar mills as well? Mr. Secretary, see the country's facts and make up your mind. If you have to apply quotas to water, water quotas should be determined, considering the annual consumption of water from the plants the farmer will plant. According to product groups, if no water is given, the need to wash will show itself that the land can be exported to future generations in our region, which cannot be met by rain. In this respect, it is imperative that those who support agriculture in the region do not suffer financial and spiritual damage from implementing action plan, water allocations are done on scientific grounds and current socioeconomic conditions, and for these reasons the plan is revised. This plan has no chance or opportunity to be implemented as it stands. Mr. Secretary, I'll close the box and I'll charge you. You're threatening the farmer. You write that in the law. The AKP government can't afford to close these wells, but don't worry, the farmers will bury the AKP in those wells. The farmer will make you pay for playing with his bread. Dear lawmakers, controlling the use of underground water is certainly important for our country's future. Our farmer is prepared to give all kinds of support for the economic use of water resources, but the procedures must be rational, rational, and practical. Let there be measures for water supply, but why do you put the whole bill on the farmer? Do your duty as a government, then go to the farmer. In our country, soil and water resources must be developed by sustainable management. Given the need for efficient, efficient, sustainable agriculture and the need to transfer land and water resources to future generations, the most important decision will be to be made by the sole body of management of land and water resources. The multi-party and small landscape in our country is a very important problem. In agricultural substructure companies with small-parted land structures, irrigation infrastructure services, the need for watering water, labor, energy increase the basic cost pens, reducing agricultural competitiveness in the rise of agricultural products. At this rate, primary and immediate land collection activities should be speeded up, the irrigation network, drainage, inland roads, and such infrastructure services should be handled as a whole, and the disintegration of land must be prevented legally. In this framework, inheritance law must be rearranged. It is known that both the watering grid and the irrigation grid have been saved up to 40 per cent in the area where the land is massed. As a result of the collection of land, there has been a 50 per cent increase in labour and cost savings, and a 50 per cent increase in efficiency. For this, the land collection must be started immediately, and the well license and meter binding must be performed in the areas where the collection is held. Because the number of wells before massing is 100,000-120,000, and the number will drop to 30,000 to 40,000 after massing. Thus, these costs to the deep wells today will be reduced by 25 per cent. Again, the necessary rehabilitation must first be completed in the above-ground irrigation fields. About 20 percent of the well of more than 100,000 underground water in the cognac basin is found in the above-ground watering grounds. If these wells are rehabilitated and converted into closed irrigation systems, the area's entire supply of water will be provided from the grid, so there will be no need for reinforcements within the field. According to the calculations, the amount of underground water that can be saved is expected to be around 472 million cubic metres; notice that the Blue Tunnel is more than the water that comes from it. Thus, when the necessary reforms are completed in the land collection and ground-watering grounds, many of the underground water wells will be disabled. So, Mr. Secretary, why do you bully the farmer for putting clocks on a lot of underground water wells that are later known to be unnecessary, and why would you charge the farmer at least $3,4,000? Look, considering that even $2,000 is necessary for a well, the cost of 100,000 wells in Konya alone is 200 million dollars, or $350 trillion in old money. That's almost two Blue Tunnels. Given around 400,000 wells at the country's level, the cost for measuring devices is nearly 1.5 quadrillion liras. Mr. Secretary, do you want to raise money from the farmer's back to companies that manufacture or import the measuring device? Honourable lawmakers are also obliged to transfer water out of the basin in order to meet the KOP region's water supply. We need new Blue Tunnels for Project KOP. There must be water from the plains of Iconium, from Sakaryah, from Fırat, from Seyhan, from Redshurmak, from Ermenek, and from other possibilities in Toros. For example, every year there is a lake on the Yellowot plateau of Bozır County, where I was born and raised, and then it disappears from the dandelions. According to measurements, 200 million cubic metres of water is wasted. The Blue Tunnel cannot be considered half as much water as the water that comes from it. This needs to be done, and it needs to be evaluated. I say to the AKP government, if you must implement an action plan, first put the KOP Action Plan into effect. In 2008, the AKP government, which has earmarked $26.7 billion for the GAP project with the GAP Action Plan, for five years, still did not accept the COP Action Plan, despite all the promises made. The KOP Action Plan must be implemented immediately. Although the head of the KOP Regional Development Administration was established, its duties and powers were limited, and it has not been institutionalised for more than two years. The KOP Regional Development Administration must increase its duties and powers, and its staff must be formed as soon as possible. Land and water management in the region should be done by the KOP Administration. In order for more land to be watered in places where lack of water is involved, pressurized irrigation systems that can be used in the most economic way. The incentives for rainwatering, as we call modern irrigation methods, must be given effectively to our citizens. Since modern irrigation methods have been introduced, there have been significant gains in both production and water savings. Full modernisation of current irrigation systems will save about 1/3 of the water used in agricultural irrigation in the KOP region, with new projects being prepared according to pressurized irrigation systems. Dear lawmakers, after other studies of the National Movement Party have been first completed, the issue will be brought to the attention, so after an offer of law, which includes a clock in the underground wells and a postponement of quota application to the eight-year period, this proposal by AKP lawmakers will also include a sentence added to the second joke of the 2nd Article of the Publicisation Law. What is meant to be done with this sentence, it's not clear. There's not enough enlightening information in the motive and commission report. The opposition can't refuse to postpone the fact that AKP has to put a meter on the wells for a year. With logic, they seem to have added the publicisation business to the proposal. Mr. Secretary, what's under that sentence? What are your intentions? Whose property are you confiscating by not giving it to whom? Why was such a sentence needed? Please explain. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0111par0096	Mr. Tin Man, thank you. Third speaker for the groups, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0112par0100	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the entire Law Proposal 410 rows under discussion. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, relations between people in societies that treat nature inhospitably are no doubt unsavory. One who is not at peace with man is not expected to be at peace with nature and to value other creatures. St. Nesin has a saying: "The dirty environment corrupts the soul of man, and the unclean spirits. "The AKP government, on the other hand, tries to suppress all opponents in society with power intoxication, and can resort to all kinds of illegalities while doing so -- on the other hand, it does not neglect to provide all kinds of economic gains to the investors and its supporters. When it comes to Rant, he doesn't stop destroying his natural beings or historical cultural heritage. They're very good at finding cover for every natural slaughter he's ever done. That's what they call a master's age. Turkey's distinguished natural resources are being destroyed for Rant's sake. In the world, they seek the world's unprecedented riches, streams, rivers, forests, historical sites, sites, capital. They sell the above-ground waters of Turkey for forty-nine years to the HESKS, local and foreign companies, and at the same time to their forests, to their greens, to the subsidiaries under the name ▪2/B, at cheap prices. The proposed law, as in the Law on Maintaining Biological Variety, is intended to commercialise and enrich certain environments, as in the Law on Water Law 2/B. Dear lawmakers, along with the natural slaughter, are also causing the consumption of water resources in our country. With the consumption of water supplies, pollution in the waters is increasing day by day. The biggest reason for the pollution of underground waters is because industrial waste is not clean enough and unsupervised. Hence, the underground waters that are starting to get contaminated by rainwater are poisoning, almost destroying our water supply. Again, industrial development is important in polluting streams, lakes, rivers, and seas. The pollution created by sewers and waste is another example of how water is rendered unusable. Serious measures are not being taken and are not being taken to prevent toxic waste from being discovered by factories built on the edge of waterbeds. Dear lawmakers have certainly brought together the bottled water, the rent of rivers, the commercialisation of water resources. Water is a human right, no commercialization, no monopoly. The International Bottled Water Association has defined many rules that regulate water bottled water, branding, labeling, and sales processes on the market, but there are two undefined rules that are actually the most important things to think about. First of all, the person who bottled the water doesn't have to tell us where he got the water. Second, it's unclear which roads he bottled water and made ready to bottle it. Because of these two issues, our people are deceived by the way water is prepared and the source of water. In our country, the irregularities in the bottled water of certain companies that the Ministry of Health recently announced have come to light. However, the details of these statements were not provided, but they were stated that companies had forms that fit according to bottle types, and as a result, society was not fully informed. Trade will also reach the top with the new water bill. The bill states that any intervention necessary to protect the water supply in unexpected circumstances and circumstances is carried out by the authorities without delay. This statement gives private companies the right to intervene on grounds of water resources. Water resources can't be left at the mercy of private companies, they shouldn't be released. This is never an acceptable situation. We also face serious problems with drinking water. Today, drinking water flowing from fountains in many cities is not clean enough. Our people are left with diseases because of these uncleaned waters. Of course, the biggest reason for all of this is environmental destruction, destruction, and misindustrialization. Dear lawmakers, another important point is the hydropower plants established and planned to be built. It has become almost forgotten or completely denied that the water of the country, which has been made money by the government, which is intended to be made into a profitable meta, is a vital entity and belongs to the public. Rivers that gave life to nature and man, underground waters, have been pursued by the Water Rights Convention for forty-nine years by private companies. It is clear that global fast and capital groups are becoming increasingly aggressive today, where water and nature are commercialized with different influences and are being tried to destroy them with profit-oriented projects and studies. There are nearly 2,000 river-type HES projects planned by public and private sectors across Turkey. It is a pity that in 2023, such extensive and devastating effects, the HESEs are able to meet only 5 per cent of the demand for electricity. This is a very high price, given the damage done to the environment. Turkey, citing external-dependent electricity, provides HESbooks as a necessary path to society, but this is certainly not a realistic approach. The total amount of electricity lost in the fences in Turkey is more than the electricity produced by all HESESTs that have been done or will be done. THE massacre of nature with HESbooks is not to be created. In addition, hydropower plants and water rights are given to multinational companies, and not hundreds of people, but only a few people are working, and those companies are getting an unimaginable amount of Rant. Although there is not enough awareness in our country yet, or not enough of the heavy daily problems of our citizens, global warming, the destruction of forests, desertification, is increasingly on the agenda of the world. Some of the valleys planned for the HES projects are in the tourism area, some are in the status area, and some are in the national park. Over the past few years, my class has been threatened with the loss of 8 dams and HES projects with the 85km long Munzur Valley. Again, it is important to point out that the security dams built especially in the region along the border are not the product of a correct approach. Today, no place in the world has ever seen a security dam built. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers will take a step further in the process of commercialising water with this law, as the law on renewable energy has opened the way for energy investments over the water, along with decisions that the HES is a renewable source of energy. With this offer, it will be my name for the total capitalization of water and the legal status of the actual situation. In Turkey, underground waters are quickly consumed and destroyed, just like other natural beings. In industry and agriculture, water has been pulled from the ground for many years without supervision. Underground water is the water that industry needs most during production as a quality. This is because the soil acts as a natural strainer and saves companies from the cost of distilling water to the extent of purity they need in production. Another difference from the subterranean waters is that they move much slower than surface waters, which are known to be one reason why the subterranean waters are purer and more suitable for the desired qualities. For this reason, industrial capital has not only been using surface water for years or years, but also subterranean water. For example, only 1.4 billion cubic metres of water used in production in Germany is provided from rivers and lakes, about 70 per cent from underground waters. International studies indicate that green areas around large cities and large rivers are becoming increasingly dry in Germany, as in most industrial countries, underground water resources are almost completely consumed in Germany. The most important feature of the subterranean and surface waters is directly related to or related to the natural cycle itself. In other words, when surface water decreases, the underground waters also run deep, or when underground waters run deep due to excessive use, the earth's water also begins to dry. But one of these two streams is constantly feeding on each other, while the other is invisible. However, this process is not the only reason for levels to fall deep in underground waters. The abandonment of surface water with projects such as HES, the lack of efficient use of capital, as well as regional and global warming, causes the water to sink to the depths. The bill does not bring any measures except for the counters at the water attractions. Attempts to ban use of water outside certain amounts, such as the purpose of using prepaid counters in agricultural irrigation, as in homes, reveal why these steps are intended to be taken. The point where agricultural water troops in Turkey come from is the point of bankruptcy. It is also often expressed that the water transfers to the Union are no longer managed by water units. The final step will no doubt be the return of agricultural irrigation resources and irrigation canals to corporations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, unauthorized filming of underground waters is, of course, unacceptable. However, commercialisation, as tried to make this offer, will result in much worse results. As soon as legal legitimacy is granted through underground waters, it will not only be for production, but also for commercial purposes. So the amount of gravity will go up even further. Similarly, because of extreme gravity, the subterranean waters will run deep, especially to threaten surface flow. Metamorphosis of subterranean waters is an improvement that will affect the use of water in cities. The primary source of agricultural irrigation is surface water, so it's underground water, because of its connections. It will be even more difficult to reach agricultural water in these areas if the underground waters of the agricultural regions in Asia Minor and Thrace are in the hands of companies. Look, I'll give you a very striking couple of examples: 25 or 30 years ago, underground water retreated from 10 to 15 meters in Bursa, and it's now down to 350 meters. So, how did this Bursa come to be? All the streams that fed the plain were kept by dams. All the water supply that feeds the rivers that are not dams has been given to companies that sell bottled water. Some companies have marketed the bottles they used to fill with underground water. Some bought high water reserves and started stockpiling. The waters and canals of Suftu Falls were sold to a company. Factorys and natural gas power plants in Bursa have caused the weather to heat up by 2 degrees, and the rain is no longer the same as it used to be. That's where we come in with the capital that creates these consequences and the policies of its political powers. One of the number of fertile lands in the world, the Plain of Bursa, was sacrificed to industry, and all its water was dried up, consumed. At the same time, underground waters in Thrace at 5-10 metres have been pulled to 150 to 200 metres deep today. Large collapses occur in the land due to the extreme gravity of the lconium subterranean waters. We can understand why water is wanted to be controlled from agricultural policies and energy investments that are being implemented. Turkey is rapidly moving away from agriculture and becoming an energy dump. Dear lawmakers, we see and experience the most violent attacks of capitalism in our country. In Turkey's agriculture, water and nature are controlled, metamorphised and commercialized. Man and other creatures living in the wild have no right to live. The law against subterranean waters must be rejected as one of the most important and most dangerous steps in commercialisation. In that sense, we're not voting on this bill. Instead of controlling the amount of water drawn in, and protecting resources, the required measurement of this situation is being made legal and is taking advantage of this opportunity to make the infrastructure for the commercialisation of underground waters rapidly. As I end my words, I want to finish my words with an Indian proverb, but after the last time a tree was cut down, the last time a river was poisoned, and the last time a fish was fished, you'll know that a man can't eat money. With these feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0113par0127	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is İzmir MP Ali Ashık on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Ashy, here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0131	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers were asked to be controlled by subterranean water, which was added to Article 10 of Law No. 6111 and Article 167, approximately two years ago, in addition to the second joke of Law 167; and within two years after the law was passed, the obligation to place a water meter on those who received documents before this was imposed. This law was passed to determine the amount of underground water used, to control the amount assigned to the underground water user, to ensure the use of underground water efficient, efficient and saveable, to manage strategically sustainable underground water. Again, the 3rd amendment of Law 167 was required to hang the water meter within two years. Within two years, the wells of those who were not wearing them were expected to be closed and the costs of them were again taken from the owner of the document. Since Law Number 6111 is the law, this clause added to Law 167 has not been implemented long enough because it is unusable; only about 606,000 of the existing wells have been installed. As a result of the complaint from our farmers, a group of our friends and I have brought this bill to you. According to the data of the DSI, 273,962 wells could only be worn by 6,633, while 267,329 wells continue to hang until 25 February 2013. Now, with the new proposal and the commission, valuable friends will be determined by the use of underground water, the amount, the basin border and other issues, the proposal of the DSI and the identification of the Council of Ministers, which makes the measurement systems mandatory. The identification of the DSI will be determined by the Council of Ministers' decision, and the Council of Ministers has the right to extend these deadlines with the new proposal. To put it simply, friends, the Council of Ministers will decide where to hang out and how much water to use, and they will be able to extend the deadline wherever they want. Dear friends, if we as Parliament, as fellow MPs, follow this law after we have passed it, it will be in our nation's best interests, it will be in your favor. Because if we can't use the underground waters in a healthy way, if we're using the underground waters, we can't carry this trust to future generations. So these waters become unsustainable. For him, dear friends, why did we, in particular, give the Council of Ministers this authority? Let me put it this way: There are dams in many places, ponds in many places. There's gonna be a charm watering. In places where there's an attraction, there's an extension, and in some places there may be no need for that at all. Because it doesn't rain the same way in every part of the country, it rains a lot in some places, it rains little in some places. The rain may never be needed in areas that are too high, so this meter may never be worn. Who's going to decide that? The DSI will determine based on scientific data and the Council of Ministers will decide. Again, dear friends, is it practical for us to make our farmers wear watches in these charming waters? No. That's what we're going to follow. If we don't pass the law, if we control it, it's a law in the interest of our country and our nation, it's a law in the interests of our farmer, it's a law in the interests of our people. Dear friends, again, with this law, we felt the need to re-recognise the interim Article 3 (Third article), and we went to bilateral restructuring: one, industrial use; two, agricultural, drinking and use. Dear friends, none of the friends who come here have mentioned industrial use, they've always talked about farmers. The water used in the industry is much higher than what is used in agriculture.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0115par0141	Mr. Ali, don't make a mistake. We talked about it, you didn't listen.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0142	Why? That's 365 days. So I'm paying for it, I can use it any way I want. Will we accept it rationally? That's why we're bringing in this measurement. Industrialist, you know, where the big city limits are within the city limits, the city wears a meter, taking half the cost of current water, taking that money under the name of waste water. Now, shouldn't we wear a watch to this industrialist? So just because I'm using water, we're just supposed to let him use it in contempt? We shouldn't, guys. Even if he did, it would have to be used in a balance, in a plan, because that water, that water under that ground, that's 75 million friends, not just the user. You have to balance it out, you have to use it as a plan. That's why we went into such a two-way split.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0116par0143	Are you going to put it on Cargill?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0144	Now, with this law, the industrialists have to wear these counters within a year, if they don't wear them, their wells will be shut down, and they'll be paid to shut down, but we've made a distinction for agricultural irrigation, drinking water and water use, friends? What's the distinction?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0117par0145	Everybody's drinking well water in the southeast.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0146	Dear friends, what is this distinction? Within a year, our farmer, our villager, who uses drinking water, needs it, has it, in a year, if no one's got the meter on, he'll wear it, unless he's got the meter on. If he can't wear it, he'll apply to the DSI within a year, and I won't be able to wear it. The D.S.I. is either going to wear it or have it installed, and they're going to collect 25 percent more.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0118par0147	If the industrialist doesn't wear it, who does?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0148	Dear friends, you may also wonder why we put this 25 percent. One, if we hadn't put this on the market, we wouldn't have put a postponement on the market, we wouldn't have put in another condition, we wouldn't have put in our DSI...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0119par0149	The farmer's all out of trouble, is that what's left of it? You're on the Agricultural Commission!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0150	...because the clock prices would go up this time, the citizen would be obliged to wear clocks at high prices. That's why we have a two-way split. We gave it a chance, we gave it a chance.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0119par0151	You broke his back in the dung, broke his back in the mazotta, and you're gonna sell the water?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0152	We, now... those who wear these clocks will wear them, those who don't care will apply, the government will wear them, and the government will take the price. What happens when he gets his price? Dear friends, you make a decent tender, you get these hours cheap, the citizens' watch is cheap again.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0120par0154	How much is it going to cost?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0155	So we brought these two distinctions. This bilateral distinction is in the best interests of our citizen. It is our duty, my friends, to use the underground waters of Turkey in a sustainable manner. I know very well that my constituency was in İzmir, where I was a child of a farm family -- we were pulling water from 8 to 10 meters underground in the 70s, in the 80s, and then it went up to 50 meters, then it went up to 70 meters, and now it went down to 250 to 300 meters. It's not sustainable, guys. So it's our duty to protect the underground waters as well as to protect the surface.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0121par0157	You don't believe what you're saying, either, but so be it!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0158	One of the purposes of this law is to make it happen, my friends.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0121par0159	Your family must be applauding you now, Congressman!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0122par0160	Miners spend three tons of water on one gram of gold.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0161	Guys, it's a timer for all of them, don't worry. They're all gonna get it, all of them. [[Smiles from CHP rows]] Once, my friends, look, in agricultural watering... why did we bring up this law like this, why did we make this offer? Friends, there's no telling how much water is going to go in the agricultural irrigations, the scientific data says, how much water is going to be drawn from the well. There's a problem with industrial use here, guys. Indeed, the farmer who draws water for the production of cotton from 300 meters will not draw much water for the production of cotton, but those who buy tanker tanker water under the name "water" and then use it in illegal wells and industry, we'll all stick to their collars together. Why doesn't the opposition talk about it, about the industrialist?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0123par0165	They're beaters.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0166	You're always defending the farmer.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0124par0167	We'll see in two years. You're here, and we're here in two years.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0168	So the goal of this law is to protect the underground waters, friends, to regulate the underground waters.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0125par0169	Teacher, who's going to wear it? We're waiting on who's gonna wear it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0170	Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0125par0171	Tell me who's gonna wear it to the industrialist.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0172	He's gonna wear it himself.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0125par0173	How does it work on its own, brother?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0174	He'll wear it himself, the industrialist, don't worry. The industrialist knows what he's doing. Dear friends, with this law, we ask that our farmers not be deceived by the black propaganda of opposition parties, especially our farmers. Because with this watch, it's like we're going to charge our farmers to use it, and there's propaganda. There's no such thing, we're just opening up a way for water to be used randomly, guys.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0126par0176	Congressman, won't there be a fee?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0177	The farmer will be given as much water as he needs, and there will be no charge for it. With farmer's energy, he'll keep using that well of his own, and with regulations, we'll make it more usable, my friends. Dear friends, again, some of our friends have added a sentence to the 22nd Article of the Contraction Act 2942.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0127par0179	It's not a bidding law, it's a civilization law.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0128par0180	Publicisation, publicization...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0181	Yes, my friends, I'm referring to the 22nd Amendment of Publicisation Act 2942.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0128par0182	Now we're talking.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0183	The following sentence has been added to the next joke...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0128par0184	What does that have to do with water? What does subterranean water have to do with nationalization?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0185	This sentence will not be carried out after a proper procedure or plumbing in the publicized property. Let me explain what this brings to you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0128par0186	Why don't you explain your involvement first, Mr. Ali?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0187	You'll get it from friends who offer.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0128par0188	What does it have to do with subterranean water, agriculture, the Agricultural Commission?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0129par0189	Tell me if the money will be taken or not.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0190	Now, dear friends, Article 22 of the Publicisation Act...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0130par0191	Will they get the money?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0131par0192	Where are you going to put the counters? Where are you going to put them?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0193	A place has been nationalized, and then, if any action is not carried out in accordance with the purpose of publicisation, a notification shall be made according to the Declaration Act, and it shall be returned to itself, friends, by returning the price it has received from the state.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0131par0194	Are you going to wear the meter with or without money?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0195	This is the executive decree of Article 22 of the Legislative Law, but some of them are alert...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0131par0196	Which ones are they?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0197	15 years later, 20 years later, 30 years later, school was built.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0132par0198	You call the farmer awake?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0199	Then it was declared a landslide area, or, I don't know, because there was no population there, the school was out of function, or the road was built, and there was a wider road, and the road was out of function, or the government took it, built a factory.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0132par0200	Are you saying the people who voted for you are awake?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0201	And then after 30 years, 40 years, when our friends heard that there were those who had entered into the will to get back at the same price, to pay the same price...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0133par0202	Who's gonna get the counterfeit money, the Minister of Industry?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0203	Because that's abuse of rights, my friends. Therefore, the property of the state is all our property, the property of the public, the property of the public, the property of the public, the property of 75 million. So is it right to take it back at the price of thirty years ago? It's not.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0134par0204	It's just fair...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0205	And so, after the purpose was done, our friends gave us this offer, and we're protecting the law of 75 million people.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0135par0206	Congressman, will the farmer's counters be paid or not? Tell me that from here. Once the farmer's pumps are on the counter, will the money be taken or not?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0207	Friends, farmers can wear them themselves, and if they don't, they wear them or have them wear them.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0136par0208	Who's going to wear it, who's going to wear it?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0209	Twenty-five percent of the government wears it; in installments, it pays the farmer in proper terms.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0136par0210	The farmer didn't wear it. What are we gonna do? Say it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0211	Guys, we're not making it difficult, we're making it easy. Our mission is to establish a sustainable government.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0137par0212	Who cares about who? Just say it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0114par0213	It's easy to divorce a single woman, and if you're in power, you get it in advance, and then you get different things. We don't do that; as lawmakers who are integrated with citizens, who are concerned about the problems of citizens, we have made such a bill. We offer you our compliments. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0138par0216	Mr. Ashy, thank you. The talks for the groups are complete. On behalf of his people, Mr. Mustafa Baloglu is an MP of Konya. Mr. Baloglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0139par0221	Mr. Secretary, let me talk to him, and then answer me. Mr. President, let's make a change today, and then I'll talk to him later, and Mr. Secretary will answer them all in bulk.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0138par0223	It could have been, but it's over. We promised, Mr. Ozkan. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0140par0225	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a personal pledge on the Law Proposal to Change the Underwater Law, and I salute your delegation. Dear lawmakers, the usable water ratio in our world is very limited. Only 12 percent of the earth's water is available. Water has become a serious problem with rapid population growth and urbanization, with global warming and water pollution increasing, access to water has become increasingly difficult. Twenty percent of the world's population lacks drinking water, and 2.3 billion people long for healthy water. Today, life's consumption habits seriously increase demand for water. In 2050, the world's population will be 10.6 billion and about 5.5 billion people will suffer from water shortages. The lack of balanced water on the surface of the Earth has created tension among countries, so it is important to program water resources sustainability and water consumption. So, not just in the country, but in the global sense, the search for a common solution to water management began. The importance of water, which is essential to our life, is increasing day by day, and the importance of water use of water resources is understood as the population of the Middle East increases. Although our country is rich in water supply for countries in the region, it is considered to be a candidate for poverty in the amount of water per capita compared to developed countries in the years ahead. The global warming problem worldwide has brought up water shortages in our country as well. As a result, limited resource use and increased pressure on our water supply. In areas where our country's farming population is dense and industrial, subterranean water is extremely demanding as a result of lack of surface water. In areas where surface water does not respond to the need, there is a particularly high demand for drinking, using water, and irrigation water, which causes excessive underground water to be used. This has forced the reserve-gravity relationship to be controlled by modern irrigation systems for a sustainable subterranean water management. Therefore, the need for measuring and setting up the underground water to be pulled out of all wells and drawn up and measured for it has been established, and legislation on the subject has been prepared and implemented. Valuable lawmakers cannot be given a certificate of use until the measurement system is established to determine the amount of underground water to be drawn into gallery, tunnel, and so on, the 10th article of the Law on Underwaters No.6111, which entered into force on 13/2/2011. The properties of this measurement system are determined by regulations. The expression is added. In addition, the temporary Article 3 has been added with the following expression: "Those who have received a certificate of use for the well, gallery, tunnel and so on, before the release of this substance date, set up the measurement system in the second joke of Article 10 in two years. The use documents of those who do not set up the measurement system are cancelled by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, and the document is closed by the owner of closing costs. The most important reason for this law to be prepared is, in fact, to prevent levels of thought that have occurred, especially as a result of the use of dense and uncontrollable subterranean water in recent years, and to ensure that the underground water to be pulled out of the wells is measurable. All wells will be monitored, real consumption and real needs will be determined after the beginning of measuring systems in wells, in order for the fact that some of the allocations of water supplies are less or more than the actual need. However, for reasons such as the adoption of this new system will take time, the length of legal regulations, and the lack of technical infrastructure of measurement systems in market conditions, the implementation of measurement systems has not been fully implemented. Therefore, new regulations have been brought to define underground wells, which will make it necessary for both extension and measurement system to be established. In this way, the proposal of the DSI General Directorate and the Council of Ministers to implement the measurement system in what areas will be first, considering the amount of water to withdraw, the basin border and other issues. Because the amount of underground water used in industrial facilities was higher than other purposes, the first stage was to set up a measurement system in these facilities, with the immediate control of water attractions aimed at this new proposal. Mr. President, after I brief you on the amendment, I'd like to take a look at some of the relevant history and statistics. In 1985, with watering and pond productions handed over to the General Directorate of Village Services and to the state's private administrations, the duties and powers in the agricultural sector were being carried out by the special administrations of the province as of today. The 6360 Metropolitan Law stipulated that these tasks will be carried out from now on by the Metropolitan municipalities. In connection with these services that have been under way since 1956, 281 irrigation projects have been produced in forty-seven years, and have been opened to watering an area of 80,000 hectares -- 8,000 hectares of pressurized irrigation and 72,000 hectares of salvat irrigation. Between 2003-2013, during the ten-year period of the AK PARTI administration, a total of 319 projects were produced and -- I want to get your attention -- 8500 hectares of irrigation, 75,000 hectares of pressure watering -- combined with modern watering techniques -- have been given to a watery agriculture of 83,500 hectares. So over the past 47 years, more of the service has been done in the last ten years, and modern irrigation techniques have been introduced. According to DSI's latest data, DSI 4. In 2007, the DSI was discovered in the cities of Konya, Karaman, Niğde and Aksaray, where there were 27,000 registered individuals' wells and watering co-ops wells, and in some cases 67,5 times the unauthorized well. As of today, the total number is estimated to be around 100,000. Another issue I want to focus on is that the KOP region is the most important agricultural area in Turkey, with the presence of 3 million hectares of agricultural land, but is the poorest part of Turkey in terms of rain and water resources. The amount of water per hectare per hectare is less than one third of Turkey's average, and the number of annual rains is less than half of Turkey's average. In the KOP region, where the total waterable area is 1,100,000 hectares, according to the scientific data available, water must be drained by less than 2.5 billion cubic metres of water per year, but in the current case, the DSI is also drawing 4-4.5 billion cubic metres of water annually from the basin. That's what's causing the subterranean water level to drop. Although 414 million cubic metres from the Blue Tunnel partially covers the gap, it does not fully solve the problem. The issue of a meter is an application to measure how much water is drawn from the ground a year. In terms of numbers, its necessity is indisputable. Since 60 per cent of the water used in the current watering areas of the region is being met by underground wells, the pressure for underground water use in the region is increasing day by day due to the lack of rain, and every year the underground waters drop by four to five metres. Finally, I'd like to say that the point where the clocks are attached to the wells and water quotas are brought to the wells is often mixed up, and there are some factions of them trying to create a negative air on society. The issue of a meter is an application to measure how much water will be drawn from the ground year, and it is not a problem for any people, and it shouldn't be, because scientific and qualified data is needed to provide solutions to any subject. In this regard, qualified data is data on how much water will be drawn from the ground in a year. The issue of quotas in wells, or sticking to the annual amount of water attraction for each well, is particularly disturbing in the farmer's foot of the agricultural community. It is also thought that the birth of this disorder was caused by the lack of public knowledge. I'd like to point out that the Law Proposal for Change in the Law on Underworld Waters is of great importance to increase the efficiency of subterranean water resources and to maintain our resources by controlling their consumption, and I wish good news to our country and farmers, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0141par0245	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. Now, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0249	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the Law on Underwaters to change the law. Sir, there's a bill of law on this, and I'd like to point out that it's very accurate. Why is it actually accurate? On February 13, 2011, there was a law that went into effect, in Article 127, of Law 6111, in Article 10 of the Law on Underwater 167, within two years of the establishment of measurement systems. I mean, that's the end of February. Therefore, there was a great demand, especially from citizens, farmers. In fact, while I was responding to non-responsive conversations here, when a demand from all groups to extend that deadline, thanks to our deputies, they drafted a bill on this issue; it passed through the commission, and it was presented to your appreciation. There is an order for the establishment of the measurement system within two years, with the temporary Article 3. So why do we need this measurement system, I want to present it. Sir, the use of underground water in particular has become extremely common in Turkey. So far, I'm telling you -- there are about 300,000 wells with documents, but besides, we've found about 200,000, but it's said to be even more, so there are at least 500,000 wells, and there are about 14 billion cubic metres of allocation in the wells that we've given only business licenses. And considering these unsupervised, undocumented wells, that's a lot more, probably 20 to 25 billion cubic metres of underground water, but our operating reserve is 15 billion cubic meters. So, now, if we think of the well as this glass, if we draw water from the well constantly, if more water is drawn than added to it, the levels of subterranean water will drop, and in time, we see it in all the basins. For example, in some parts of the cone basin, water has been drained from 40 to 50 meters, and it's now down to 80 to 100 meters here, so it's almost out of economics, so there's a lot of energy being consumed. Besides, he's got a salt problem. Other than that, this water level will continue to drop even more if it is constantly raining and drawn more often than it feeds underground water. Therefore, let alone the grandchildren, even the children of the farmers, will have no water. That, of course, should be avoided. In particular, the measurement system is essential, but it has to be delayed, and I want to stress it specifically. In fact, it's not just salting, increasing energy costs, water levels dropping, but there's even some subterranean collapses, especially in the emergence of some sinkholes, and I'd like to stress that in particular. Of course, in this law, we extend that time. It's very helpful to extend the deadline, because, you know, our citizens are waiting for the last few months. So far, the number of wells is not even five percent. So, in the market, of course, given the supply demand balance, the cost of measuring the meter is too high, supply is too low. Therefore, demand has increased, so citizens are almost 3,000-4. He has to install a measurement system for a well for 000 TL. Getting in the way of this and... And I also want to stress one thing in particular: we did a very serious study over the next two years, and we said: let's call it a measurement system everywhere, and it's called a meter -- does this have to be installed? We've seen that in some places the level of subterranean water is high, so there's no need to be a measuring system in places like this. For example, there's already a high level of underground water in the plains of Erzurum Ilica, so there's no point in saying, "Put some money on the citizens." Thus, at the moment, the Council of Ministers has been given a mandate in Article 1 of this law, especially in terms of the amount of water, use of the areas to which the measurement system will be established, and other issues, in the case of setting the boundaries of the basin, we are authorising the Council of Ministers, which began during that period. So there's no point in setting up measurements everywhere, and I want to make that very clear. And I'd like to stress, sir, that in the past, even in wells, there has been an excessive use of water, unfortunately, with loptidai irrigation systems. We especially want to encourage the citizen to water the closed system, rain and drip. In this regard, we, the government, have abandoned the open system irrigation systems since 2003. Look, when the closed systems we used to call the system were 4 percent -- the rest was an open system, an open channel, an open system, etc -- our goal now is to raise this rate to 88 percent by the end of 2014, that's one. And let me also say, as you know, we're turning the irrigation grids completely shut down by tasting all projects, even projects that have been planned in the past, even projects that have been done. I also want to bring to your attention, my dear lawmakers, you know, we've started a really great project called 1,000 Ponds in a thousand Days. Here, our instruction was: We have given strict instructions that this entire watering system will be closed for 1,000 days under the scope of 1,000 ponds. It's a huge benefit, and I want to stress it specifically. And, sir, of course, we listen very carefully to the comments and recommendations of our lawmakers, and we thank them very much for them, and it's good for us, but here, our members of lawmakers have mentioned that the watering is behind us in the GAP. Sir, the irrigations in the GAP... look, I'll tell you, the GAP was only watering 180,000 hectares in early 2003, but we are now watering 313,165 hectares in the end of 2012 under the GAP Action Plan. In addition, a total of 373,418 hectares, 57,253 hectares of TIGEM, are now being watered. But I'd like to stress in particular that the GAP Action Plan, according to the 2003 grants, has an 11 times increase in irrigation, and the lines are being completed very quickly. Of course, here in the GAP Action Plan, both the Silvan Project, in Diyarbakır, Mardin, in the area of Siirt. From Gaziantep, in the area of the GAP, to Mardin, all the projects have been dealt with one by one, and the drinking water problems have been completely resolved. Look, there are drinking water projects in this action plan. There was no drinking water in Şırnak, so we brought drinking water. There was no water in Mardin Kızıltepe. We brought Whitesu. We watered the whole area. There was no water in the Siirt, and we gave drink water to Siirt and even to Kurtalan, both from Kezer Tea, and from Hasköy sources, and also from Botan Tea -- three -- in a modern decontamination plant. We solved all the drinking water problems there, including Gaziantep, including Adıyaman. As for the irrigation, the main channels are running out; the important thing is to complete the main channels. As of next year, look, the 200 miles of Shanliurfa-Mardin's main channel is over, and the rest will be almost over, and all the main channels are finished. The plains, the plains, Bozova, all the plains, the watering of the Tigris King in Diyarbakır, the watering of the pinegas in Adıyaman, wherever you look, these irrigations are largely completed. So, right now -- building networks -- main channels, we've done a lot of it, the dams, the main channels are finished, and the rest of the irrigation grid is much easier to complete. Look, we're going to finish most of the irrigation in the 1,88,000 hectare GAP area next year, and we're going to finish the whole thing in two years. I'll give you the good news. Also, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, our Konya MP, told us about Mr. KOP. Sir, about the KOP, we, really... the KOP project is moving too fast. The KOP project had previously been forgotten on the dusty shelves of the DSI. Look, Congressman, in particular, in 2004, we took full care of the KOP. What are the projects in the COP? We have prepared an action plan, such as energy, irrigation, dams, ponds, floods of protection, water transfers from other basins, even drips into the system, into the closed system: the GAP Action Plan. What did we do here? For once, we're the first people on the KOP project to bring water from other basins. One of them -- you know very well -- we built the Derebucak Yilmaz Muslu Dam in front of the wasteful waters that flowed to the Mediterranean. From here, we give water to the great Gembos Tunnel, and to Lake Beyşehir. We opened this. In fact, according to our calculations, 135 million cubic metres of water per year would be given, but thank God, 180 million cubic metres of water is now flowing from here, especially from the Gembos Tunnel to Lake Bethlehem. We also saved Lake Beyşehir because it was a will of Beyşehir professor Dr. Yilmaz Muslu to me when I was DSI General Manager -- and we're sending the extra water here with the Beyşehir-Süğla-Apa Canal -- which is 69km of giant canals -- through very difficult conditions. Other than that -- you mentioned in your speech -- there were sinkholes, water was running. Where's the one that gets away the most? It was cold. We built a nice set around the sugla, and we built a pump station here. From here, we transfer 100 million cubic metres of water to the Plains of Conium Chumra via the BSA Channel again a year. Here's to the Blue Tunnel. Sir, the Blue Tunnel was a century-old dream. The previous governments have made a tender for this. They're biding $450 million, but it's a good thing they gave up because we can't. We've dealt with it. We've completely redesigned the Cabbage Dam. The Blue Tunnel was also designed with a method of opening a very lopsided tunnel known as the ac-plot. We changed it completely. We decided to open it with the TBM machine, which we called the mole, and then we decided to build a hull as the tunnel machine moves forward. So the time was very short, and at this moment, a huge tunnel, which is 1734 meters long, is 15 feet [4 m] wide, has been opened. You know, our Prime Minister, he opened this on December 16th, and as a result, the Cabbage Dam was over, water was flooded. We're also inviting our representatives to go and see the magnificent view. Hopefully, the water's already full, so we'll give it summer water from the Blue Tunnel. We'll also produce hydroelectric energy from there, and we'll give Konya 100 million cubic metres of water per year. So, look, 135 million cubic meters of water actually 180 million cubic meters of water, where does it go to the Plains of Conium? From Derebucak. 100 million cubic metres of water will flow from Suğla, and 414 million cubic metres of water will flow from the Blue Tunnel, thus bringing 650 million cubic metres of water to the Plains of Conium for the first time a year by our government. Yeah, that's a compliment. That's a good thing to say. But what haven't we done about Asconium? See, in Sejdişehir, I've been watering Karayören pumps, I've been watering the Plains of Konya, I've been watering the 4s and 7s, I've been watering the 1st level pumps from Beyşehir Kıreli, and I've said the other Gembos, the DSI channel, the Morsi Damlapınar Damlamage, and so on and so forth. There are many ponds, countless ponds. I don't have time to mention these names. Excessive protection is also...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0143par0264	Name the ponds after the MPs.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0265	Let's name the pond in Yalova.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0143par0266	I don't want to.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0267	Excessive containment facilities are 20. After all, there are big projects going on, and I'm not going to talk about them, but maybe that's...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0144par0268	In Opium, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0269	No, sir, we're talking about Iconium and Malatya.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0144par0270	Where's the clover dam, Minister, the clover dam?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0271	We're talking about lconium and Malatya. Sir, other than that, I'd like to point out that things are going very well, especially with the GAP. Look, we've got a book out on this one, called GAPP.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0145par0273	Making books doesn't solve problems.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0274	Of course, everyone has to work in the GAP, but the most work is from our Prime Minister, who announced the GAP Action Plan, especially on May 27, 2008, and gave us the opportunity for a lightning strike here. If anyone wants to, this pamphlet just came out, and we can present it to you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0146par0275	You transferred all the unemployment funds there, what happened?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0276	I especially want to say that we've not only watered down in the GAP, but also in the GAP, in the KOP, in other regions, in all regions of the East Anatolia Project, we don't just build dams, ponds, irrigations, stream reforms, even now we've prepared a flood action plan to protect ourselves from the floods. Plantation, erosion control in the upper basins, and all the work is planned, and it's going to continue at lightning speed, and it's going to continue. That's what our nation expects of us, and we're doing what our nation demands with enthusiasm, excitement, and we're doing it with time. The facilities we're building are in the middle, look, we're even opening them together. You know, didn't our Prime Minister open 110 facilities on 10/10/10? I opened 200 facilities. We opened 111 facilities on 11/11/2011; 8.5 quadrillion, 8.5 billion euros, and the Prime Minister opened it collectively, and I opened 250 facilities. In December of last year, 112 facilities on 12/12/2012, a total of 16 billion dollars, our Prime Minister opened it, and now I will open the remaining 300 facilities. It's a clear sign of how hard we really work. People appreciate it anyway, so they give you 50%. One of the two people in Turkey is voting for the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0146par0278	What you do best is posters, posters...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0279	That's the answer. (CARP PARTY APPLAUSE, WHISPERING IN CHP lines).
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0146par0280	That's right!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0142par0281	It's people who appreciate it. You will not give the report card to the government, but the people will give the report card, and the people will give the report card, thank God. I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0147par0284	May God save it from vanity, Minister.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0148par0285	We're not rationing, Mr. Secretary, we're doing audit duty, auditing.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0147par0286	Mr. Secretary, this arrogance is not good, it's not good.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0149par0287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sir, last word, Mr. Ramadan Kerim Özkan of Burdur...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0150par0289	Mr. Secretary, the clover dam...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0151par0290	We'll do the clover dam this year too, I promise. It's on the record.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0149par0291	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0152par0293	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute your grand delegation. My dear friends, the most vital thing is we're talking about water, we're talking about water counters. Water in agriculture, water in human life, water in animal life. Look, we've been through so much talking, but there's been no assessment of the animals. It's easy to drink milk, it's easy to make milk, but you have to know that for 10 liters of milk, it needs 65 liters of water. A cow who gives 30 kilos of milk only has 100 litres of water down her throat a day. It's water, it's life, it's clean, it's right, it's clean. We're bringing in a meter on these. Our citizen already lives on the serum. We're not opposed to clocking, but these counters -- our safe is full, our economy is the first economy in Europe, we have money in our safe, we see the gold in the bank, we say: in the name of this manufacturer, in the name of this farmer, in the name of the manufacturer, let these counters be free of the State Waterworks.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0153par0297	What do we do if he doesn't?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0154par0298	It's obvious who's going to wear it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0152par0299	It's free. I mean, let the government wear it. This isn't a meta that's been bought and sold. We haven't seen this meter. This meter weighs maybe 10 kilos, maybe 10 kilos. Trafos are falling off the mountain, my dear friends. The transformer is on a 30-metre pole, and the citizen is pulling out a 500-pound, 600-pound transformer. Don't let these counters be a commodity that's bought and sold. The citizen says to me, "Look, I didn't get any money for this hay." I can't keep my cow's oath. You want to hang a $3,500 meter on my pump that pumps 2.5 liters of water per second. I'm looking for straw, government counter. Old books are opening up like a mufli merchant. Save us from this persecution. These reactions have come to you, they have come to us, they have come to the opposition, they have come to power. Over the past month, within a month and a half, each of us has taken on our own sites about the counters that are going to attach to these water pumps. So, Mr. Free Private, Mr. Kurt, our friends and you, Kerim Özkul, we're making a law amendment, so we'd like to make an improvement, but there's no beautification in this law. What are we doing? We're authorizing the Council of Ministers. I can put a meter where I want to, and I can't put a meter where I don't want to. I mean, how can this political will be trusted? Mr. Minister just said, for example, there's no need to put a meter on Erzurum's Kandilli. There's water there. But what will we say tomorrow if you try to tame a place where you don't vote in my Burdur, in my Isparta, in my Afyon, in my Denizli, in my country? The meter and the discipline... Look, Minister, the newspaper says what a peasant citizen of Burdur says: "If we sell the village, we can't pay the debt. We drilled the village of Burdur-Büyaka in 2008 by State Waterworks to the private company. The debt of that private company is currently in the hands of the managers of the Büyükyaka village Watering Cooperative in the District of Yeşilova, our province, and the villagers are very troubled these days. When they saw in the bill from the DSI that the drilling cost was 145 thousand liras, they were surprised at what they were going to do. In 2008, DSI announced that two private sector channels had been opened to the village, saying that the village of Büyaka Co-operative President Hasan Hussein Inç sent us a $145,000 bill for opening two wells to pay for this service in 2012-2013. However, in the nearest village of Gökceyaka, which was opened after 2010, again, the price of the well was $28,000, which was built by the DSI into the private sector. The price that comes to us is too high. He complains. There's already a lot of complaining in our villagers. I counted in the Commission -- we traveled our villages -- in every village there are two wells, three wells, five wells, all of which cost us, and the numbers are very large. That's why we say that the people who produce it, the people who produce it, should be given a favor by the government. I don't know if the Prime Minister knows about this. I told the commissioners in the House. Mr. Prime Minister, maybe if he heard about this, what are you guys doing, what did you do? We promise the peasant. Look, we put the handicapped on free buses. Let's do the villagers a favor and put these counters on for free. Make a phone call, ask the Prime Minister a question, see if you can find a way to deal with it before it's too late. So we're pretty, the crates are full, and our national income is 15,000 dollars. Let's all share these facts on behalf of the citizen. How's that for a good thing? This weekend I was at the Sea Play. Our manufacturers of the Sea Play cry out that they lived full last year, and the weather was cold, minus 27 degrees, one week, ten days, seven days, and the vine rods dried up. The citizens say: "We want to be in the warm hands of the government. We have 1,032 citizens here who have been identified in this matter.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0155par0304	Even the rain of AKP power has increased.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0152par0305	There are thousands of acres. These rods, look, they're dry from the underpants. One litre of grapes from these rods makes one litre of wine. Don't say wine, look, it's one litre of wine, one litre of wine, one pound of grape, before it's out of the state, before it's out of the... You may not have said it, it's being exported, sent abroad. Look, the wine is being sent abroad. There's $5 per liter in the government's vault before they get out of the factory. You take advantage of it, and I take advantage of it, and the pilgrim takes advantage of it, and the teacher takes advantage of it, and we all take advantage of it. This money goes into the government's pouch, it's school, it's day, it's day, it's mosque, it's day, it's day, it's day, it's day, it's day, it's day, it's bridge, it's money goes into the government's vault. This safe, look, this safe...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0156par0306	Is Metiners taking advantage?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0152par0307	We're all taking advantage, we're all taking advantage of every amount of money that goes into the government's vault, whether it's a radar fine or a K1 document, whether it's a K2 document, whether it's an R document, whether it's an R document, whether it's money that goes in, KTV, VAT. Then we need to listen to the voice of these manufacturers. The player manufacturers are standing. I brought the hanging stick here, so I'll share it in the House tomorrow, hopefully. Recep Special (Isparta) - Which manufacturer? Our problem is the solution, the solution... our problem is the solution. Thanks to our naval lawmakers, they've worked it out, they've solved the problem of 93 of our citizens, but we have 1,032 manufacturers there. They say that to remove these rods, you need at least five billion dollars, five years to sew them, five years from now you need another five billion, 10 billion. We want to meet with the warm hands of the government. Listen to our voice. He had a rightist, he had a leftist, he had an MPP, he had a CHP member, he had a AKP member. It happened before the municipality in Denizli Çal, in Denizli Square. Our presidents were there. So we've been assigned to our mayor, our mayor, our neighboring city council, our headquarters, we've seen it happen, we've seen it happen. We're waiting for a solution to this problem, so the citizen is troubled.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0157par0310	Mr. Ramadan objects to the wine expert, saying he'll never lose a pound at 1.5kg.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0158par0311	It won't.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0152par0312	Yeah, she's dating, guys. If Aleppo's there, he's in the factory. Go see, there are now 1 litre of those products made out of one-and-a-half litre of ox-eye grapes, and the government is being paid $5 per liter of that product. So, look at the sound of those manufacturers, they're adding value, and I demand that you listen to his voice. On February 25th, that was the end of the period of measurement systems, but don't take our reaction as a reaction, we're taking it in terms of our citizen's concern. Let's make these counters available, and I repeat, not a commodity that's bought and sold, but a tool that's been bargained with by the State Waterworks, bought and used for free; and if we don't, we're going to face this problem all the time. Maybe you'll bring back the law. Citizen, you will not be able to wear these counters and encourage smuggling. An uncle from the town of Yusufça, my Burdur, told me: "The fats went well, and they gave me 3,000 cubic metres of water from this counter, but the air went well, and the fruit continued, and I will water more and keep my fruit alive. What's going to happen in this situation? I took out a loan, cashed my lady's bracelets, opened this drill, but now the government says I'm going to put a meter on this drill. I'll bring it tomorrow, I'll drill it with a triple hook, I'll run away, I'll water it illegally. So, I demand that you give up this job, and again, for our citizens, I offer these counters free of charge to your conscience, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0159par0316	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Congressmans, now we're going to do a 20-minute QA with our friends and the Minister who entered the system. Mr. Irbet asked for his first word. Here you go, Mr. Irbet.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0160par0320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the National Centre for Aviation and Space Research (NASA) has pointed out that the risk of dehydration in the Middle East could arise as a result of its studies since 2003. The study said that 60 per cent of the water loss in the region stemmed from pumping underground water and a significant number of the effects of drought. What are those rates in Turkey according to your work? Studies show that there have been 144 cubic kilometers of dehydration in Fırat and Dicle riverbeds since 2003. The region around Firat and Tigris is in the 2nd district where the world's fastest dehydration occurred after India. The most affected countries are Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran. In this case, water resources management strategy and water market climate change should be focused on technologies and research aimed at harmonising, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from companies operating in the water sector and improving water quality. How do you feel about further measures to be taken in this direction? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0161par0323	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. Mr. Iron... No. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0162par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many pump stations are planned to build in the Gaziantep Belkis pumping area? How many of these pump stations have been activated? Why aren't those who haven't been activated? Is the height of energy prices preventing pump stations from being activated? My second question: when will you fulfill your commitments to Ardil Dam in Gaziantep Karlan district? These promises are constantly expressed by citizens, but they are inconclusive. The third question is, Mr. Secretary -- when you're DSI General Manager, you know very well -- what do you think you're going to do about the pollution in the Ergene basin? Do you intend to meet or fulfill the required report of the parliamentary research commission established in 2003? What kind of precautions do you plan to take on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0163par0332	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0164par0334	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we've received calls from many of our village citizens as this law is being discussed. In short, you put another meter on our water counters with the law of fifty kilometers and the law of the city. Now you're putting a meter on our underground waters. They ask, "Where are you going to put a meter on us?" This is the exact expression of a villager from Konya Karapınar. How will he resolve the inequality between the rains and the places that don't fall? Carpinanar, it rains little. I martyred my grandfather in the Battle of Salvation, and I martyred my son against terror. Did we always love this land to die? I wonder what the minister would say if I asked him that. He says, "Are we really going to starve to death from now on? ▪ How should these villagers love this land?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0165par0337	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0166par0339	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the farmer can't pay his electricity debt right now. He can't pay off the electricity debt from the village's common drinking water grid, he can't pay off the gas debt. And he can't plow his field on this occasion. In these conditions, how are the same farmers going to pay the price of 3-5 thousand liras, and then the same people, how are they going to pay for the water that can be taken from here? How are these people, the farmers in debt, the farmers in debt, the farmers who can't pay for their own electricity, the farmers who can't pay for their own gas, going to pay for these counters? Again, Mr. Minister, you had a project by Turkoglu to bring water to villages in the District of Gaziantep, İslahiye, in the District of Gaziantep, with plans and projects for many years. What state is he in, when is he coming, when are the people here going to get this water? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0167par0342	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0168par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the seven-eyes and bridge dams, which have been built, are the drinking water dams for the Forkan Dam, which meets the need for drinking water in the city centre of Adana, while the Forkan Dam was an electrical-producing dam until 2002, but the drinking water function was installed in this dam from 2002. Because of this function, agriculture has become virtually impossible because of the constraint brought to fertilizer and watering in 19 villages around the Forkan Dam. These peasants are miserable, do you have any suggestions for a solution? A second question: Çukurova is still the most fertile land in the world, but 41 per cent can be watered. Although many water sources are in our region, it is a loss to this region that 41 per cent can still be watered. Do you have any work to do with this increase? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0169par0348	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0170par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, one: after hours of deep well pumps used by farmers, will they be paid for the water, or will they be paid for the amount of water? Two: "The deep well" is an open word. How many meters or how many inches will this pump be installed? This needs to be cleared up. Third, will charming irrigations be included in this coverage? Fourth: You mentioned places with high base water, Adana, Çukurova, one of the areas with high base water. There's water coming out of 40 feet, 20 meters, 30 meters, and it's barren. Will you include Çukurova? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0171par0356	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0172par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, if the farmer can't handle the water meter himself within a year, he'll be wearing DSI in three years from the date of execution -- from the time the law is approved. You say, "It's 25 per cent." You say, "It's over a year, so it's two years." Isn't that 25 percent too high, even if it's two years? And if you put it on in three months and you get another 25 percent difference, what's that worth? That's my first question. And my second question is: you said you were going to fish at Gediz, as of 31/12/2012. What work did you do in the Gediz basin? Everything is ready at the border of İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, all treatment facilities have been built. What did you do in the rest of the episode? If you have done nothing, do you now feel shame for making this promise? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0173par0362	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0174par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. How many cases have been filed under Article 22 of the Civilisation Act? Will this be carried out in cases that were filed on the day the law was enforced? Because of the 22nd article, how much would the institutions pay if this law had not been passed? Last question: we have 29 major cities, the entire city city. State Waterworks services include only areas outside the Metropolitan Law. Will this apply to them? The Ministry has issued a lease agreement on the location of these water springs in Sakarya district of Sapanca. But water is being transported through the leaky pipes. Do you have any control over these? If you checked, what kind of procedures did you do? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0175par0368	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0176par0370	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a forest fire took place in September in the village of Bağpınari in Malkara district of Tekirdağ Province, Turkey. After this forest fire, the fines were issued to our citizens in that village for not interfering with the so-called forest fire. However, when we looked at those who were fined, it became clear that three young people were blind, that some people were being punished, that they were doing their patriotic duties at the time. Now, the answer to the question I'm asking you about this is so interesting that after the fire was extinguished, we stopped these sentences. Are you running your ministry, or in some other way, trying to get rid of your inability to fight the fire, by leaving this responsibility to the villagers, by giving the villagers a ticket? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0177par0373	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0178par0374	Mr. Secretary, among your projects is a pond completed in the village of Kenger in Kula. It's been watered down, watering ducts are expected for years. Although the village's lands have been prepared and irrigated, this project is not yet complete. Can you tell me when this project will be completed?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0177par0375	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0377	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you for the questions. First of all, the question of Mr. Joseph Ziya Irbeç asked: Yes, what kind of work do you do on dehydration, climate change, dehydration, dehydration in the waters of the underworld, and decline in the Tigris and Fırat? Now, of course, we do all our planning for 30, 40 years from now. We've prepared an action plan for watering, drinking water, use water and other needs for all cities. For example, in drinking water, especially in all cities, we're dealing with the needs of 30 years later, the water situation, the water supply, even alternative water sources, and we're doing an account based on that. I mean, at least, for example, there's a dense population in the Marmara region. We've recently planned in this Marmara region, from Düzce (Düzce) to Cırklareli, in all the provinces to the border of Bulgaria, for three years, there will be no shortage of water, even if there is a drought. We plan to collect at least 120-130 billion cubic metres of water, considering the capacity of building dams, ponds, dams. We discussed forecasts of climate change until 2050. Taking into account a number of possibilities in this regard, the efforts to adapt to climate change are being done by all of our Ministry's units -- as needed by the General Directorate of State Meteorological Affairs, its new name is currently being made by the General Directorate of Meteorology, State Water Management; I want to stress that in particular. Other than that, Mr. Serindağ had a question, especially from here -- there was a project that was waiting for Nizip to water the Berke. Pump pumps have been put into pumps that will now be watering up to the 2nd level, because it is urgent and will be watered. We're doing a study right now, Congressman, after the 2nd level. Why? Because the promotion is too high. It's a promotion up to 350 or 400 meters. Of course, the watering troops, the farmers will pay for it. Once we've done some work on this, we'll be able to increase the number of pumps if necessary. We'll increase them over time. As for Ardil Dam, the Ardil Dam, in particular, is a very important dam, and I follow it closely. In fact, we completed the project last year, and in December 2012, the tender went up, and the process continues. Hopefully, the Ardil Dam will be in the hot watering area. I know how important this is. This year, we're going to lay the groundwork on it, and we're going to finish it very quickly. In particular, the irrigation projects continue, so there will now be a 2,573 hectares of irrigation. I want to give you the good news from here.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0180par0382	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0383	Let me answer, there are other questions. That's what we explained about the teenage basin. We've prepared a specific action plan in the teenager's basin, a plan of action that contains 17 packages. Of course, the municipalities didn't really do their part in this, but we've completed work on river reforms, erosion controls, dams, ponds, underground water. In fact, a change has been made in Law 1053, and it has been decided to build wastewater treatment facilities by the DSI under Law 1053 for municipalities that cannot do wastewater treatment facilities.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0180par0385	Sir, that's not what the pollution is about. You know it's from the domestic waste there.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0386	Right now, it's all about the municipalities. We'll prove it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0180par0387	Give me the right information.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0388	The industry has wastewater treatment facilities, but the municipalities there don't have wastewater treatment facilities. In fact, we're doing their project. We also laid the foundation of the wastewater treatment plant 15 days ago in the Long Bridge, which will be opened on December 11th.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0181par0389	You opened the city's own facility as if you'd built it yourself. It was the City of Longöpru.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0180par0390	You know that's not where the pollution comes from.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0391	Mr. Moroglu, the counter to the underground waters... sir, this meter, we just explained the technical reasons, to protect the citizen. Let alone your grandchildren, even their children will have no water. If we draw too much water from the ground-fed water, there could be a lot of problems in the underground water, especially in the lower levels, in the salting, in the rise of promotions, in the increase of energy costs. That's what we're doing, so we're doing it for the citizen. And, you know, we're turning into a closed system. For example, we did some exemplary work in Konya, in Karaman, in Karaman. Those who do open watering around the underworld, along with private administration, hand-in-hand, more than 400,000 per cent of the land in the Plains of Iconium, are currently under way of supporting private administration, without paying for three years, 15 years of repayment system, rain or drip system. In fact, the private administration is also very supportive, so let me point out in particular. No one will die of hunger, our goal is to turn Turkey into a production base exporting food to the world. Mr. Sugar, the debt of electricity, etcetera... now, sir, let me put it this way: for once, the meter is 3,000, not $5,000. It's not a meter, look, I want to get your attention, the measurement system. We don't use counters if we have to, if there's electricity coming in there, they have the ability to measure it without putting in an electric meter, we're looking into it. The measurement system, I'd like to state that in particular. About Islam, you said, "Don't bring the water." I wonder if it's drinking water or watering water, Congressman, and if you'd care to brief me on that. Mr. Yilmaz, of course you're right, there is indeed a 41 percent irrigation in Adana, but we want to finish these irrigation projects recently, especially with the watering of Lower Ceyhan and Lower Seyhan plains. Misis-1-2 irrigation projects, they're mostly finished, but -- you know, you were Forest Regional Manager there -- 7 percent of Çukurova was watering in the present situation, and right now, we're increasing that rate rapidly. In fact, right now, the Seven Eye Dam, you know, is complete. There are studies about 75,000 hectares, which will water 750,000 acres of land, which are now being done with transmission lines and first-level irrigations, which we will quickly complete. Of course, when the Forkan Dam is a drinking water basin, you know, there's only one hazard in absolute protection areas, but if it's desired, we think that these villagers, citizens, can be eliminated by their special decision-making efforts, by encouraging organic agriculture around here. In particular, it is possible to encourage agricultural, especially organic production, provided there is no use of agricultural fertilizer or agricultural drugs -- the 17th, 18th Amendment, Water Pollution Rule. In addition, this area can be narrowed down with special sentencing studies. I think we can do a study on it if it's desired. Other than that, Mr Varli, now, we don't intend to charge farmers for agricultural irrigation. Also, there's no need for a license in wells that are already 10 meters deep when you say wells. The wells, which are more than 10 metres deep, are called deep wells.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0182par0398	Minister, how many inches?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0399	The depth of the well is 10 meters. In particular, I would say that wells that are already more than 10 meters deep are considered deep wells. You don't need a license if it's less than 10 meters. It's easy for a citizen to take shallow water. That's one. I also want to make a very important statement here. So he answered your question -- I actually answered my speech -- and we brought up something here in Article 1 of the law. We said: "In Turkey, for example, you have stated... I coined Erzurum, the plain of Ilica; and you, not all places in Adana, where the base water is high, but in some areas the base water is high. We're saying that we're going to work on the micro basin, and we're going to make a decision about underground water, where there's no need for it. Look, if you read the first article of the law, you'll see. It's the law that makes it necessary to hang out there. I want to stress it specifically. Other than that, Mr. Ascension...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0183par0402	So we're gonna put the meter in the pumps? Mr. Secretary, that's my inch.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0403	Sir...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0183par0404	Are we gonna put it in the pump in the guy's yard?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0179par0405	Sir, the pumps are less than 10 meters, they're already 7 meters... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0184par0408	Mr. President, we had questions.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0185par0409	Give the minister time, Mr. President. What about the lawsuits?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0186par0411	See you in the matter, Mr. President, go to the matter.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0187par0412	Mr. President, let's ask a question and the Minister will answer in three minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0188par0413	Please... Not you. A few friends have questions left. If you answer them in two minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0189par0415	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0188par0416	You're welcome.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0190par0417	Now, if you'll excuse me... If not within a year, the DSI was sentenced to wear it but over 25 per cent. Of course, there's a difference between wearer and wearer, which is between wearer and wearer. Besides, we have this idea that the DSI has an authority over the law. You know, we provide an opportunity for watering troops and co-ops. We want to use it here, too. So when we open a well or do it in the underground water grid, in the underground environment, there's three years of non-payment, no interest, and 15 years of repayment. If he makes such a request to the co-operatives, we will also provide such an opportunity, which I especially offer to your attention. Now, we have prepared an action plan for Gediz. In the action plan, you know what to do with which agency. As a state, we, the Forest, the Department of Water Affairs, have finished all our obligations by the end of the year. What were they? Delegate reforms, wooding, erosion control is our responsibility, but the construction of wastewater treatment facilities, for example, in Manisa, Salihli, for different parties -- in Turgutlu, these are wastewater treatment facilities...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0191par0420	He was going to make the mine in Çangar.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0192par0421	The righteous did it...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0190par0422	In fact, I told them, for example, the mayor of Salihli -- my classmate -- that you can either do it yourself, or you can do it with the Bank of Provinces, or you can do one-third of it...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0192par0423	He did it.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0190par0424	But the projects are too late, for example, so there's a solid waste-water plant and there's...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit03spe0193par0426	Thank you, Minister. The negotiations are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0193par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 65th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 410 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission's Commission's Reports on National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, which are ranked in the 4th place in the 4th place, in which the Memorandum for Bilateral Co-operation between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran is appropriate. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 216 rows. It's all on the bill, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0194par0012	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'm going to make a brief statement. For him, the deal's not broken. If international agreements are to be ratified, of course they will. But we've just had some talks. In particular, our friend Bulent Turan has made some unjust accusations regarding the Istanbul Bar Association. I'm going to make a very brief statement about this, and then you guys can move on. Now, dear friends, as I begin my words, I'd like to start by saying what lawyers do when they do their job, what we all do is on our agenda: we're not subject to anyone, nor to clients, nor to power. We don't claim that there are people below us, but we don't know any hierarchical superiors. It's no different than a senior or a senior or a name maker. Lawyers didn't use slaves, but they didn't have masters. This is a saying from Molierac, which we used to do in our profession, and it's at the head of our agendas, dear friends. Now, in recent talks about the Istanbul Bar Association, that's the bottom line. There is a problem, dear friends, that we are not subject to power, that the Istanbul Bar is not subject to power, that he does not submit in any way. (x) 216 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I, for one, will tell you what happened at the Silivri trial on December 13th, and then I will tell you about the incident with the Istanbul Bar. We went to the Silivri trial on December 13th, where our MPs were tried. There, the court counted the documents that came in, and there came this document from here. Our lawyer friends wanted to make a statement against the documents that came in, dear friends. We had about 150 lawyer friends there. The court refused to make any promises. The lawyers were not promised to make a statement against the documents that came in, my friends. After that, the tribunal's president said that despite all the insistence, a single lawyer could be spoken to as a representative. With dozens of defendants there, you can't promise a single lawyer as a representative. When our friends insisted on it, a friend of ours was sentenced to a mistrial. So our friends resisted. Robocops tried to force the lawyers out. It happened right in front of all of us, guys. Then, again, our friends resisted, the head of the court had to promise all our friends to make a statement against the documents. Then, the next day, because the lawyer friends wanted to speak again, there was a public pressure of the incident the other day, so many of our friends, around 150 of our lawyer friends, were indicted. Look, they just want to make a statement because they want to make a statement against the documents. Such a judgment in Silivri, my friends. Now, as for the Istanbul Bar Association's incident, the Istanbul Bar Association had to go to court on April 6, 2012, where the trial of the Sledgehammer was held. Why did he have to leave, guys? Because there were no promises to our fellow lawyers, no promises, no insults, no suspensions. Our friends went there to protect the rights of lawyers in accordance with the relevant articles of the Bar Law, as they applied to the bar because of the limitations of the rights of the defence, and their talks there were not relevant to the basis of the case, nor were they concerned about what should be done in the case. The members of the İstanbul Bar Association's Governing Body only said: "Please follow the principles of fair trial, do not limit the word of the defence, do not insult our fellow lawyers, do not break the words of our fellow lawyers, make a promise and be removed from the court." Friends on April 6, 2012. Because they say so, members of the Istanbul Bar Association Board are being sued for the right to defend themselves, because they want the right to defend themselves. In fact, the court chief said on that day: "You came here to do your duty as the Bar Board, and we see this, and we promise you for that. There was no trial order or anything else, only the right of defence was defended there, and the right of the Bar Board was defended there. Then, that day, the prosecutor filed a complaint. Then, again, because of a statement from the Konya Bar, the Consolidated Bar was appointed and an investigation was launched, but it was not until yesterday that this investigation had come to any kind of trial. They asked our lawyer friends to testify to the statements of our friends on the board, and they said, "You need permission from the Ministry of Justice under the Law on Counseling." We will not come to testify unless you conduct this permit procedure. The prosecutor who has the case there, who has the case, has been given a brief leave of absence. The trial has been filed against İstanbul Bar Association, as well as on members of the Board of Directors and, for whatever reason, a lawsuit has been filed against our friend Bkent Turan, the Istanbul Bar, and the Istanbul Bar can no longer serve. My dear Bulent, how do you know if that case, the indictment, will be accepted? How could you throw it away?
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0195par0020	It's on the bar page, the bar page. Their own confession.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0194par0021	Now, you may say: "Sir, the judiciary is independent, so we don't know what the prosecutors will do for him." One: The prime minister said: "We have spoken to the judge." Two: "We have made these statements without knowing if the indictment has been accepted. So there's a judicial system that works directly on orders, instructions. You -- despite all of this, dear friends -- you can't handle it if the Istanbul Bar is being sued for doing its duty because they're only defending the right to defend it, because the Istanbul Bar is standing up. You're trying to defunction people from the Istanbul Bar with a vote of 12,000 or so of our friends, by doing the actual coup, with just one prosecutor's indictment, but you won't be able to afford it, my friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You won't be able to afford an illegal blow. On March 17th, the Istanbul Bar Association called on the Extraordinary General Board to the lawyers of all Turkey, the deans of all law school teachers...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0196par0024	He's not authorized to call her.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0194par0025	...and all the legal scholars abroad, the entire legal community. On March 17th, you will see the Hall of Congress in Istanbul, where you will see all the people of this country defending the rule of law against the law. This attack against the Istanbul Bar and the other Bars against the only standing right to defend the judiciary you want to silence will remain in your hands, friends, you will not be able to afford it. We'll be with our lawyer friends on this until the end of the bar. In the same way, the President and members of the Association of Modern Lawmakers are in prison today illegally. And they were tortured naked for using their right to defend themselves to the end, so we're taking blood samples against our friends, against the law. They've been dragged on the floor and tortured by our friends. Against all these attacks against the defense, friends, tomorrow you'll go to the bar, where you'll all have to practice law, and I'm telling you for fellow lawyers -- you won't be able to look at the faces of our friends and colleagues, dear friends. Therefore, we will stand firm against this coup d'état and stop this attack against the defense, and from now on, we will stand firm against any attack against the judiciary, against the defense. I'm saying this on behalf of the entire legal community...
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0197par0027	Bravo.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0194par0029	...on behalf of the lawyers, you will not be able to intimidate us, my friends!
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0197par0031	I've told you 10 times, and I'm not gonna tell you again.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0198par0032	There's no further demands on the entire bill. I submit to your votes that the bill shall be passed on to the articles of the bill, those who accept... those who refuse... the amendments of the bill are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH REPUBLICITY COMPLICATION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION TO PRODUCTION OF REFECTION OF THE SPOR The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in İstanbul on August 28, 2010, and the Memorandum for bilateral Co-operation between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the open vote, give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0199par0051	Mr. President, please read the ballots.
tbmm-2013-02-13sit04spe0198par0053	[[The vote continued with the electronic device]] I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Iranian Islamic Republic of Iran to ratify the Covenant for bilateral co-operation in the field of sports: ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Mustafa Hamarat The bill has been adopted and legalized. Now, we begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission and the Foreign Commission, which ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement on Co-operation between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in Youth and Sports. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Union's Integration Commission, Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission reports, which are ranked in the 6th place, as well as with the European Union's Integration Commission, Development, Development and Tourism Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Turkish Republic Government and the Foreign Commission Report, on September 27, 1994, when it is appropriate to approve the Protocol -- which Changes the Agreement on Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking -- which was signed in Ankara, between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Malaysian Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Jersey Government on the Information Change Agreement on Taxes and the Agreement on Agreement's Commentation or Approval of Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 174 rows. (x) 174 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. A request for word on the entire bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTINUE AND AGREE TO CONTINUE AND CONTINUE AND AGREE TO CONTINUE AND CONTINUE AND CONTINUE AND CONTINUE AND CONTINUE AND CONTINUE AND CONTROL. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Information Change in Taxes Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Jersey Government, signed in London on 24 November 2010, and the ratification of the Covenant Zaptat, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkey and the Government of Jersey, as part of the Agreement on Information Change in Taxes or Applying. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Jersey Government on Information Change Agreement on Tax Matters and the Agreement on the Commenting or Applying of Agreement that Approvement of Agreement Is Approved: ▪ Number of votes used : 212 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which was in 9 July 1999, in accordance with the Commission's Charter, which changed the Convention on Double Taxation and the Amendment to Tax Trafficking, which was now in 9 July 1999, signed in Singapore, between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Singapore. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. A request for word on the entire bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... Those who don't agree... Sustained. On July 9th, 1999, there was a demonstration of the policy that led to the formation of the Republic of Turkey, which had been established by the Republic of Turkey, which had been established in the region of Turkey, in the country of 1999, to ensure that it had been given to the population, and that it would be understood that it would be possible to escape the force. MADDE 1- (1) The Protocol, signed in Singapore on July 9, 1999, has been approved to prevent Double Taxation on Taxes taken between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Sin-gapur, and to alter the Agreement on Obstruction of Tax Trafficking. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. (x) 334 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The entire bill will be voted electronically. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I submit the conclusion of a clear vote on the adoption of the Protocol, signed on July 9, 1999, in Singapore, to prevent Double Taxation on Taxes taken from the Republic of Singapore, and to alter Tax Trafficking Agreement on Tax Trafficking: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 216 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and it's legal. We will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's government and the Foreign Commission's reports, which are ranked in the 10th place, and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 217 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... It's agreed to be passed on. THE CONTROL OF THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY IS CONTINUE TO CONTINUE THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROL OF THE SPORE OF SPOR MADDE 1- (1) was approved on September 13, 2011 in Cairo, with the approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and The Covenant in the Sports Area between the Government of the Egyptian Arab Republic. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 217 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the voting of the bill should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote and give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt in accordance with the adoption of Covenant Zapt in the field of sports: ▪ Number of votes used : 227 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 11th place, where the Status of Asia's Conference on Co-operation and Investigative Measures is suitable for ratifying the Status of Writing. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 69 rows. A request for word on the entire bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 69 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. ASIA PROGRESS AND PRODUCTIONAL PRODUCTION OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE STUDENT MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 17 June 2006 in Almatı, where the Status of the Conference on Co-operation and Trust Increasing Measures was approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote and give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I move that the status of the Asian Conference on Co-operation and Investigative Constructions is in order to ratify the status of the Writing Status: ▪ Number of votes used : 227 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin negotiations with the Foreign Commission Report and the European Commission's Charter, which is ranked 12th, in accordance with the draft of the 12th Conference on Co-operation and Trust Investigative Measures in Asia, the Approvement of Members' Representatives and Representatives' Legislatives and Immmmunities. Commission? He's in position. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 186 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 186 rows. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF THE CONFORMATION OF CONFERENCE, PERSONISTS AND EMPLOYERS OF THE SECURITY AND CONTINUES OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION AND PROTECTION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION MADDE 1-1- (1) The approval of the Convention on Co-operation and Trust Increasing Measures Conference, Staff (Employment) and Representatives of Members (Immunity and Immmunities of Members) has been approved. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of an open vote of the Asian Conference on Co-operation and Trust Investigative Precautions, the Court of Staff, and Representatives of Membership, Approvement of Agreement on Inflict and Immmunities: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 229 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. (x) Open vote is included in the table report showing final results We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 13th in the Union of Turkey and Montenegro, in accordance with the adoption of the Social Security Agreement between Turkey and Montenegro. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 366 rows. A request to speak on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY CONTINUE WITH THE TURKEY REPUBLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 15 March 2012 in Ankara, with the approval of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and Montenegro. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote, give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I present the open vote on the adoption of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and Montenegro: (x) 366 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. ▪ Number of votes used : 237 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 14th in the Union between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Italy, in accordance with the adoption of the Social Security Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 368 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF SOCIAL PROTECTION WITH THE ITALY REPUBLIC REPUBLICATION The approval of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Italy, which was signed in Rome on May 8, 2012, was approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 368 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote, give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I propose an open vote on the adoption of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Italy: ▪ Number of votes used : 238 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. We begin talks with the National Defence Ministry of the Republic of Turkey and with the Ministry of Defence of the Oman Sultanate of the Military Business Association for the Prolongation of the Memorandum of Covenant. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 304 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... It's agreed to be passed on. THE CONTACT OF THE TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE OMAN SURVIVEMENT OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNION MADDE 1- (1) Appointed in Oman on January 22, 2011 between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Sultanate of Oman and the Government of the National Defence of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of the Omans between the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence and the Assembly of Military Business Covenant. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 304 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the voting process and give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of the open vote between the Turkish Republic's Ministry of National Defence and the Oman Sultanate Department of Defence that it is appropriate to ratify the Memorandum of Agreement of Agreement between the Military Business Association. ▪ Used Number of Votes : 242 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. In the 16th place, we will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of Information and Communication Technologies. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with 125 rows. A request for word on the entire bill? No. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 125 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. TO CONTINUE THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION IN THE UNIVERSITY OF ENGLISH COMMUNITY OF SLOVENIA REPLICATION IN THE ACCIDENT OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ENTIREMENT OF ENGLISH AND CONTACTITIONS. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Co-operation in Information and Communication Technologies between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, signed in Ankara on 21 November 2007, has been approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Law Bill that Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of Information and Communication Technologies is in order. ▪ Used Number of Votes : 243 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Egyptian Arab Republic for Co-operation in Electric and Energy. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (February 14th 2013) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday (February 14th 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
