tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Jamalettin Simsek, the MP of Samsun who asked for a statement about the problems of Iraqi Turkmen. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0002par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of Turkishmen living in Iraq. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation and the members of our nation who are watching us on the screen. Dear lawmakers, the invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the so-called Arab Spring events have affected Turkmen's presence in Iraq very badly, and because of the foreign policies of AKP power in the United States and the EU, the Turkmen's presence there had failed to find enough support from Turkey, the only country he trusted when it was forced by its EU-led foreign policies. Turkey's foreign policy on this issue has also sparked reactions from the Iraqi Central Government, and political, social and economic agreements with the Northern Iraqi Autonomous Region have been made with Iraq at the cost of opening our relationship with Iraq, and a consensus has been sought on the future of Syria, even the developing events in Syria. The Iraqi Central Government and the Northern Iraqi Regional Management used the government position of the Republic of Turkey to side with the Regional Administration of Northern Iraq while doing some calculations on Kerkuk. Since the invasion of Iraq in 2003, there have been 600,000 Kurdish families in Kerkuk, trying to demographicize Kerkuk, while the AKP is proud of you by calling Barzani to the congress. Iraqi government officials have warned Davutoglu to leave the country immediately, saying they have the authority to arrest him. Finally, Mr. Taner, the Minister of Energy who wanted to go to Iraq, turned down Yıldız's plane while it was in the air, had to land on Minister Kayseri. Tensions on sharing oil revenues between the Iraqi administration and Barzani are also the highest since the U.S. occupation. In the process, the AKP government, which signed several agreements with the regional Kurdish administration, including energy, was on Barzani's side. Thus, the AKP government makes any approach to the Northern Iraqi Regional Government, which has its ambitions on Kerkuk, which can lead to the destruction of Iraqi Turks by providing political, social and economic support. Davutoglu's going to Kerkuk, and preaching to Hamasi, is a complete deception. In Davutoglu's speech, the 121st Amendment of the Iraqi Constitution has political, economic, cultural and educational rights in the areas where they live intensively, while we are not even followers of it. It seems that the government favours its position in the games played on Kerkuk between the Iraqi government and the Northern Iraqi Regional Government. In fact, the AKP is pressuring the Iraqi Turkmen front through Turkey's Turkmenian Foundation to act together with the Northern Iraqi Regional Management. Dear lawmakers, right now Iraqi Turkmen have no life and property security. Not a day goes by that there's no bombs going off in the vicinity of the Kerkuk. The life and property security of Kerkuk Türkmen has been handed over to the aftermergency. It's like handing over a wolf lamb. Kerkuk Türkmen are under pressure from the central government on one hand and from the Iraqi Regional Administration on the other. They have no one in this world but God and Turkey. Therefore, Turkey must immediately review Iraq's policy and not sacrifice Iraqi Turkmen for cheap gains. For Iraqi Turkmen: Iraqi Turks do not want to leave the Central Government of Iraq. However, the rights and status of Turks must be fulfilled under Article 121 of the Constitution of Iraq, and the Turkish government must follow it. The demographic structure of Kerkuk (Kerkuk) should not be tried to replace migrations in the Kirkuk region. Iraqi Turkmen's safety in life and goods should not be left behind; it must be provided by the central government or by Turkishmen, which will be created in Kerkuk. Kerkuk would have to be in a special status and position, such as Baghdad, without participating in any federative zone. The Telafer Border Gate must be opened immediately, the Turkishmen's arrival in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...North Iraq should not be left to the pleasure of regional management. As the National Movement Party, we're alerting the government again on these matters. It means that it's too big, and I'm giving you all my regards again.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, who asked for a comment on the environmental pollution caused by the Coalists in Dilova province of İhtisas Organised Industry District. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. When it comes to dilova, the cancer comes to mind. The cancer rate here is about 2.5 to 3 times the Turkish average. It's not my diagnosis. If anyone's curious, I can give you a book on it from the Ministry of Health. Since the 1980s, this disaster has been prepared as a result of unplanned and uncontrollably industrialization in this region and the distorted urbanization with it. Unfortunately, no one thought to take precautions until they caused human deaths. The parliamentary research commission was established in 2006. This commission has decided to take 29-point measures in its research. Due to the limitations of my time, I don't need to express these 29 articles, but the bottom line of the commission report is that this region is satisfied with industry. There will be no new industry and no increase in capacity. The current industry will be more tidy using their new technology. No one has kept their promise. What's sad is that in 2006, despite the commission report, you have committed four new industrial zones north of Dilovas, north of the settlement line. As if that wasn't enough, you immediately allowed the construction of solid waste depository and Charcoal Influence OSB within about 500 metres between these and the settlements. These Coalsmiths are doing coal elimination, breaking, washing, packing, and brimming in the OSB. Now, I'm asking you, dear lawmakers: is it possible that there's no dust in this environment? As if the pressure of Dilovasi was not enough, as if 30 per cent of Turkey's chemical and paint industry were not in this area, it was assumed that 33 per cent of Turkey's heavy metal industry was not in this region, not enough, you also sentenced these citizens to coal powder, as well as this air pollution that averaged 120,000 cars per day from TEM and E5. Look, even though these Charcoalists were built on paper in 2003, nothing is being processed until the 2010 snake. The Mahali environmental commission is being convened, and every time, the area is miselected, it is north of the settlement, and the report that Dilovasi's air circulation can be changed from the only north, it is a pity that from 2010, authorities, Coalists, I do not understand that the OSB is being decided. On top of that, it is not necessary for the government to receive CED, but also to think about the report. Madam Secretary is here, he can follow up and investigate, and if he's having trouble investigating, I'd like to submit a court decision to him. Last week, NGOs and managers from Dilovasi came to visit me. They probably went to the ruling party MPs, too. Their demands, they say, are that we can't go out, my dear MP. We can't hang laundry, we can't open our window. Our children lack the opportunity to play in the streets, in parks. Our request is that the location of the coal man OSB is wrong, please, this place must be changed immediately. Is it that hard? Is that an assumption, they say? In one year, some 10 million tons of coal will come in and out of the OSB, using the inside of Dilova. Think of the 10 million tons of coal that the trucks will make without using the noise, the dust, and the tarp. It's impossible to imagine there's no dust. When we get together with the authorities from time to time, we say: "Let's end this if there is a factory or a business that has a negative impact on human health; let's punish and close if we have to." But for some reason, Charcoalists don't give up the place of OSB. This is what the people of Dilovase want: we want the human right to live, we want to breathe, we want to take care of our children's tomorrows. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Çifdem Münevver Ökkın, who asked for a comment on the events of Mersin Arslanköy. Here you go, Mr. Kökten.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the liberation and the events of the lion village. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, our nation has destroyed and gained independence from the occupation forces with extraordinary courage and heroism shown in every region during the Battle of Salvation. Here, in the Mediterranean Region, the Efrencans, the French invaders and their collaborators, who live 55km away from our Mersin, and in a village of 2,000 altitudes, have written an epic tale, destroying all invaders without the help of our militia. This victory, won by all Efrenks in a single fight by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, was crowned in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and titled Efrenk (e.g. Efrenk) as well as Efrenk (a.g., a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. March 1st has become history as the salvation of Arslanköy. "Arslanköy has not written any epics in the Salvation War alone, precious MPs. They also demonstrated a challenge and resistance to Turkish political history with the strength, courage, and the love of democracy that they showed in the 1947 election for the muhtar. In this resistance and legend, the woman of Asia Minor is also the leading role. The event, known as the case of 46, is the most important event in the early years of our republic's history. Because a year after entering the multi-party system, in 1947, all over Turkey, the election was the first time the CHP and Democratic Party competed in the free environment. For the first time in many years, the public had the chance to change its preference, and it was reflected in the chest with great work and discipline. Unfortunately, the public's preferences did not come out of the polls, which led to the vote being antidemocratic, the form of the vote. This has caused objections and reactions throughout Turkey. Yet again, the people of Arslanköy have demonstrated their diversity, risking death in order to hold their votes, and have demonstrated resistance to form a cornerstone for democratisation with their women. As the Democratic Party candidate received 566 votes and the former headman's 54 votes, the ballots were re-sealed to the polls and handed over to teacher Mustafa Kublai. Unfortunately, when the ruling party's mayor found out he had lost the election, he informed the governor of the term and demanded a reelection. Members of parliament, the commission, which arrived on February 25th for the new election in Arslanköy, announced that the elections were made illegal and that the elections would be re-elected in public homes. He insisted, not on the new ballot box, but on getting the votes out of the old ballot box. However, Mustafa Kublai reported that he had taken it from the people, that he would only deliver it to the public. Under the governor's orders, the commander of the gendarmes, who determined to have the former chief elected against the will of the people, ordered that the door of his soldiers be taken by force, the door of his teacher Mustafa Kublai, be broken down, but they were especially faced with a great deal by the women of Arslanville. Rey is our honor, our honor. We've never defied our government. We have defied an antidemocratic stance in the name of democracy, and it is as precious to us as honor, as to honor, as to our country. No one can take our vote away from us. We have won these lands from the enemies, and we want to triumph with our votes free of the ark. They said, "They did not give the ballot box." At the same time, 47 people, most of whom are women from 19 to 60 years of age, have claimed that after this date, the Turkish Penal Code was the 190th, 149th and 172th Articles of the Turkish Penal Code, and the Consolidated Riot and Participation. They were tried at the High Criminal Court. On February 23, 1947, what happened in Arslanköy was neither a rebellion nor a public uprising, nor a simple party dispute. The only living witness in this case is Havana Koç, who is now 95 years old and named his daughter after the other women who were born at that time. Dear lawmakers, the people of Arslanköy, whose past is full of great sacrifices and achievements, have fulfilled its part in the growth of democracy in our country, protecting the vote he's made despite all the negatives and pressures, not using the ballot he calls honor to political ugly ambitions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I honor our women in this struggle for democracy, and ask God's mercy for the deceased. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0007par0063	Thank you, Mr. Knuckle. On behalf of the government, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar. Here you go, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0008par0067	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you first. I have been promised the statements of Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan. And I want to thank our congressman for having both his Dilovasi and his sensitivity to the environment. Of course, our Gebze County has been located in the industry for nearly 60 years...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. Minister of Dilovası district, Dilovası district. It's a county.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0008par0071	Gebze is our county, so Dilovasi is in on it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0009par0072	No, sir, Gebze is a separate district, Dilovas is a separate district.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0008par0073	Sir, it's been in Dilova's town before, it's now a county. Gebze is Turkey's most important industrial region, and Dilova is together. Dilovasi is now a county, so we'd like to congratulate him on being a county. I'd like to express that in particular. Dilova is also a very important place, and of course we agree that Dilovasi is a region where the industry is troubled by its geographical position, topography. Again, we have here, according to the warnings and instructions we gave to our governorship about this area -- especially the site -- that the Coalists' Organised Industrial Region -- was stressed -- on January 9th. In accordance with this generality, the Coalsmiths here work in the Initiative Organised Industry District, where our directorate is very strict in overseeing this place. Again, all coal storage, elimination, packing, brimming facilities in the district of Dilovai have been moved to the site of the İhtisas Organised Industrial Zone, and all other coal makers outside the organised industrial area have been shut down. Sixteen facilities are currently operating in the organised industrial area, located two miles [3 km] from the district centre. All facilities in the organized industrial zone have been installed with sprinkler water systems to cover all areas for the prevention of dust emissions...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0010par0076	It's not possible, Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0008par0077	...walls and panels that exceed the height of the coal piles stored to cover each of them, have been made to cover all the elimination and packaging bands, and pulverized water systems have been installed on the bridges and bands. All roads in the organized industrial zones are asphalted, the floor for the control of waste water has been leaked with concrete and asphalt, and each facility has at least three levels of collapse pools. Due to the level of hail in organised industrial areas, the wastewater project approval process for central waste water treatment facilities is under way. In addition to such legislation, the Coal Storage, Electoral and Bricating Facility General, which is published based on the same regulation to address environmental legislation, the Control of Industrial Resource Air Pollution and the dust complaint, which the facilities are obliged to comply with in terms of air emissions, has been published and has been conducted under the regulations of the Department of Coalists Ihtisas Organised Industry and firms. According to data from air quality measurement stations in the Bigele center and Dilovah, the parameters of particle matter, dust and sulfur dioxide are not exceeded by the average limit values of 2011 and 2012; we are constantly measuring them. In addition, the framework of the Air Quality Evaluation and Management Rule aims to gradually reduce the air quality limits to 1 January 2014, and after that, the European Union's air quality limit values, plus, a gradual transition towards the European Union's limits. Likewise, the work of the Organised Industrial Region here is carefully monitored from the environment. Again, while we're at it, I'd like to share with the High Council what I've done with the environment.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0011par0081	Mr. Secretary, let me ask you one question, and answer: Why was the Environment County Manager assigned to Ankara, who was suspended?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0008par0082	High-value lawmakers serve 245 wastewater treatment facilities and 245 municipalities in 2002, while 550 municipalities now serve 428 wastewater treatment facilities and 550 municipalities. Again, at the end of 2002, 35 per cent of the municipality's population was tied to the wastewater treatment plant, while today it reached 72 per cent. Again, at the beginning of 2003, 15 times the amount of waste is served by regular storage facilities and 23 million by 157 municipalities, and as of the end of 2012, 69 times the level of waste storage facilities and 903 municipalities serve 45 million people. Again, about 4,000 people were employed at the 46 recycling facilities in early 2003, while today, over 60,000 of our people are serving at the 956 recycling facility. With the recycling facilities that reached 956, we became able to add $1 billion to the country's economy. Today, now, our garbage is regularly stored at 60 percent modern facilities. Likewise, we continue to work on producing energy from solid waste, producing flowers in solid waste plants, producing greenhouses and making composts, and we increase them day by day again. Again, in 81 cities, we monitor the air quality of 161 air quality stations and the air quality online throughout Turkey. The number of air quality measuring stations 24 in the region has now reached 63, creating regional network structures in the Marmara region, where the population and industry are dense. We're constantly measuring air quality with 63 online systems, including Marmara District -- including this one, Gebze, Dilova. We're mapping our cities for noise. Again, with the work we've started since 2012, we've given our municipalities 1,041 garbage pickup vehicles to be used in solid waste storage services. Again, between 2007 and 2013, we launched construction of 39 environmental infrastructure projects with a 930m-euro budget. Again, we pay 50% of the energy costs of our own wastewater treatment facilities, which are also very important to environmentally, with our support. In 2012 alone, we paid the municipalities $27 million for half of their energy in wastewater treatment facilities. Again, the pollution of our seas has never been measured before, but at 208 points today, we are measuring the pollution of our seas, and our number of beaches with blue flags has increased significantly more than before. Again, my respects to the High Council, thank you all for giving me this opportunity.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0012par0090	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0013par0091	Mr. President, may I correct a sentence?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0012par0092	Now, you already have a brief request for words according to Article 60, which is how we make corrections, I promise you that I'll give them there. Now, first, I'm going to meet the very short request of the group's vice presidents and then 10 of our friends, according to Article 60. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. The artist we lost the day before yesterday, Müslüm Gürsesi, we buried him yesterday after the funeral prayer. I ask God's mercy on Muslüm Gürses, a very important artist whose concepts are best expressed in his music, such as Arabeskin's inability to hold on to life, to his family, to his loved ones, to his loved ones, and to our nation. He was a truly important artist who gave his songs, his music, his heart, his soul. I am also a man who likes two songs; not without you, and not without you. Their song is one of the songs that has left a mark on me. His songs may have been orphaned, but they are already classicized songs, and Müslüm Gürses will take his place in the history of music. We wish him God's mercy as the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0015par0102	And we, the Supreme Court, pray for the mercy of God to my late Muslüm Gürses, and for the patience of his family. If I had snow in these mountains, I would have loved it. Yes, now, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0016par0106	Mr. President, we ask God's mercy for the honorable lawmakers who have left us -- in their own words -- to share their feelings and their own pain with their own people. With his music, with his voice, with his interpretation, in some way, he touched all of our emotions, and there were a few verses or a few voices about the pain that each of us had in our lives. We say, "God bless this place."
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0015par0108	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0017par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Party of Actions, pray to Müslüm Gürses (Gabriel) for the blessings of Allah the Most High, and to his loved ones, and to his family, and to his relatives. He was truly a man of the heart, a man of the heart who knew not to make a father of himself in much of society, a man of music, a man of the people, a man of pain, a man of pain, a man of music, accepted by the people and loved by the people, but a dear son of the land, who, in due time, returned to the Hereafter. We wish him the blessings of Almighty God, sir, as the National Party of Action. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0018par0114	Thank you. I told you I'd make a promise to the top 10 people. I'll start at the end now. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0019par0118	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Home Secretary a question from here. The 94 digits, about 45km away from Mush, are claimed to have reached a standstill due to snow in the village of Upperyongali, of 810 inhabitants, but the thickness of snow is 10 feet [3 m] despite the days remaining in spring. The village is impatient for the melting of snow. Because of the thickness of snow that finds the meters, those who want to leave their homes use windows or digging tunnels. Therefore, I'd like to ask the Home Secretary through your presidency about the claim that life has come to a standstill due to snow in the mountain village of Upperyongalı, 45km away from Mush. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0018par0120	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0020par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to start by correcting the Minister's statement that his information is not accurate. He said that the distance from the OSB (OSB) in Dilova is two kilometers [3 km] from the city. I would also like to remind you that there are two schools and Dilovasi Hospitals in this area, about a mile to 500 meters -- including Mr. Minister's knowledge. My reason for taking promises is to honor 263 miners who died on March 3, 1992 in Zonguldak Kozlu, at the anniversary of the disaster where they lost their lives. I wish that business accidents were no longer a destiny, that human, first human, first health, first business safety, first, business accidents and labor deaths would cease to exist. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0021par0128	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0022par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in a group speech that citizens over 65 will travel freely across the city's public transport lines of the State Railways, the naval roads, the city's city's urban transport lines, and on the intercity journey, they will travel 50 per cent off and give our citizens hope. We have citizens from villages, towns, cities over 65 years of age calling, asking when the Prime Minister has not made any attempt to fulfill his commitment, and when they ask the authorities, they have received the answer that there is no such thing, and when he will fulfill those promises. And I would like to ask Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on behalf of his promises to the citizens: when will you fulfill these promises you made by saying, "My neck's debt?" When will this offer be on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0023par0134	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0024par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the center of democracy, and I want to get the attention of all our MPs in terms of democracy. Dear MPs, there was a video on YouTube, one Prime Minister and two Erdogans, from social networking sites. This video contained several statements from the Prime Minister's own voice at various times. Mr. Prime Minister has put a gag order on this video, which has not been contributed to his own voice, because its talks in this video were indiscriminate, inconsistencies, inconsistencies, inconsistencies with the public. I understand that there's a gag order on other people's talks that involve lying and slander, but it's thought to be a gag order in one's own statements. One is, does the Prime Minister not want to be embarrassed or known for his contradictions? Two...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0025par0140	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0026par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. As the hospital equipment supplies are so lacking in our current hospital hospital hospital in the districts of our Kahramanmarash, there is also a shortage of technical staff, but unfortunately, there is only one doctor in our hospital. If he goes into his shift system, he'll serve 24 hours, the only doctor works only eight hours. Having a doctor in one of our districts is a lot to think about. I ask the government to take immediate precautions on this matter.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0025par0144	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0027par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to warn the government of your intervention. These are a time when the farmer needs the most fertilizer. Each year, when the need for fertilizer arises, there is a 20 percent increase in fertilizer prices. If 20% less is saving fertilizer at these prices, why is there a 20 percent increase? If they can sell this fertilizer in time from 20% below, why don't they sell it now? The government needs to develop a measure, a measure. The farmer has a very big complaint in that sense, he's in a lot of trouble. At a time when the input costs were already increasing, the input costs were hunched over, and when the fertilizer prices increased by 20 percent, the farmer overreacted. I'd like to warn the government from here, please, to come up with a solution to this fertilizer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0028par0149	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0029par0151	Mr. President, I'd like to announce from here the rebellion of the village of Dr. Dr. Kavacık. The Kabaty village consists of 40 digits, living on livestock, but the animals are about to die because the hay and the oath are too much to feed their animals because they can't feed their animals. They go to other villages to shepherd, because they can't do livestock. Because of the village's place, the houses collapse on people's heads, three houses last year, and three houses this year have completely collapsed. People can't fix their homes because of poverty, so they're desperate to have their home destroyed. In addition, they have no roads to connect their villages to the main road, but they can walk to the main road in three hours. There are no toilets in the village. Because the drinking water is open, animals lie in the water during the summer, so people get sick all the time. The villagers can't even take our brother. They're canceling our green card because we have 10 animals, and we can't afford tea and sugar. We voted all of our votes in the election. They call it "The AKP," and they don't give away their rights to those who get their votes. That's where I'm going with this scream. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0030par0154	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0031par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. The Vineyard Gym is the only gym in Istanbul that has Olympic standards. The gym, almost half a century old, raised thousands of athletes, who represented our country in international competitions. There are about 1,250 licensed athletes from 15 clubs in the hall, and 27 teams and 340 athletes with licensed athletes and 340 sports students from handball halls, which are more than 760. Now the owner of the Foundations General Directorate is in danger of being closed because it has not renewed its lease to the Sports General Directorate. The athletes I personally interviewed are deeply upset because they will be left in the middle because they do not have an alternative gym with the same standards and say all efforts to reach the Ministry officials have failed. What's extremely bad is the claims that the gym will be shut down and replaced by a shopping mall. The lease must be extended until the athletes' new halls are established. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0032par0160	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0033par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Ninety-three years ago, on March 5, 1920, the institution known as Greenlay was founded to protect youth from the harm of drugs and alcohol. It's hard to say that the green bear achieved that goal today. Sadly, 20 per cent of students in Istanbul alone use cigarettes, 21 per cent use alcohol, and about 4 per cent use cannabis, according to official figures today. A study conducted in Ankara has found that 5 out of 100 students use prescription drugs in the drug category. Drugs in Turkey are far more advanced in the use of recreational substances. There are such vices in the infrastructure of criminal cases such as divorce, murder, suicide, and harassment. The number of health institutions that treat substance abuse in public is limited. Most of the private institutions that serve in this area also work as a business. There is no serious treatment for substance abuse or bad habits. It's not the treatment that's important to prevent society from getting those habits.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0032par0164	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0034par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Secretary General announced on March 4, 2013 that it developed the application of the TBM Mobile for smartphones and tablets and submitted it to the use of lawmakers. I'd like to congratulate everyone who's worked on this exercise that will make legislation and control activities more effective, thank you. Unfortunately, this practice was only designed for the IOS mobile operating system, and was not provided for more than half of the users in Turkey for the Android, Symbian and BlackBerry mobile operating systems. This leads to the perception that the House does not stand equal distance from all mobile operating systems. It would be more appropriate for parliament to take a stance that it also has an equal sense of service for lawmakers who prefer the operating system outside the IOS. I'd like to see the TBMM Mobile app put to use for other mobile operating systems as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0035par0170	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0036par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. My condolences to the loved ones of Muslüm Gürses. He won't be forgotten. Dear lawmakers have been fired for unionising 300 workers at Adıyaman, Adıyaman, a company under the name Strong Textil, and have been resisting for 38 days. And now they've set up tents in the tent, resisting attacks by your boss, the governor, and the police. Those who stand in the way of their constitutional rights, those who covet the labor of workers, must be seen very well. They will be organized in the PRIFY Union and must be extradited. Hear our voice in our coven, they call it. Again, in the same way, last week, office workers who served citizens -- 100,000 -- went on a one-day strike. They've done joint action for job security, living wage, equal work, social rights, the right to collective contracting with strikes. Let us also listen to the voice of public workers whose rights have been seized every day and who have been cut from their wages unexplained. 8 Martha, as I walk along, I celebrate and salute all working women who defend their labor in the fields, their social rights, the struggle of peace and solidarity.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0037par0177	Dear Ulupınar...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0038par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. On 3 March 1992, Zonguldak was a Turkish mine in Kozlu district of Zonguldak Province, Turkey. Turkey's largest mining accident was the result of a series of flu explosions between the hours of 00, and most of the miners were burned to death and 263 were killed. In the explosion, where the negative 560 main floor was being prepared, 529 workers were rescued alive and 78 workers were sent to the hospital for treatment. In the hope that such disasters will never happen again, I spend a great deal of hard work, wishing that our precious miners, who have dug up our black diamond stone coal hundreds of feet below the ground, would be an example to all of us, honoring all of our miners who have lost their lives so far. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit01spe0039par0183	We're going on the agenda. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted by the European Parliament on March 4th, 2013, in the 70th Union of the General Assembly on Organised Crimes, Bribery and Black Money Laundering, which was held in Brussels, Belgium's capital, on March 4, 2013. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Name and Last Name Selection Environment Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Hatay MP It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a motion to resign from the commission, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission. 28/02/2013 I'll give you what you need. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate issues related to tea and tea producers and to establish policies for the determination of measures that need to be taken, we demand and demand that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution. 1) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Slap]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mughle]] [[Yozgat]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kayseri]] [[Elazığ]] 19) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] 25) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] The world's total production of tea is about 2 million 461,000 hectares. Tea is produced in 45 countries. It is observed in statistics where tea productions continued to rise after the 1990s. The ranking of tea production sites ranks China at 1.33,000 hectares. Turkey is ranked in the sixth place after India, Sri Lanka, Kenya and Indonesia at about 80,000 hectares. In the world's dry tea production, India is ranked in the first place with its production of about 845,000 tonnes, while China is ranked in the 2nd place with its production of 820,000 tonnes. Turkey, followed by Sri Lanka and Kenya, is ranked fifth in the world's production of tea with nearly 200,000 tonnes of dry tea. In our country, tea, the largest source of livelihood in the Black Sea Region, contributes greatly to employment, balanced income distribution in the area where it grows, reduced regional migration, efficient use of other lands in the same region, and to the national economy. Tea, on the one hand, supports people living in the region, while on the other hand, contributes to employment in the tea industry. However, in 2003 and 2004, when illegal tea entry was lowered to 15,000 tonnes, production-cost balance was achieved, in later years, using borders and doors in our Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, illegal tea entries again increased to around 40-50,000 tonnes, causing the country's resources to be squandered. In addition, it is the loss of our country's income if the imported teas, which are imported illegally, are processed and exported, are sold abroad. High production costs, on the other hand, have a negative effect on exports. Age tea, seen as the most important cost element, does not satisfy each three parts of the cost of dry tea on the manufacturer's side, the bottom price on the tea industry, and the consumer side, which is viewed as a basic food component. In this regard, the world's tea prices conclude the rightness of the tea industry, compared with the price of tea base inflation, compared with the producer's hunger limit. In our country, there are between 900,000 and 1,200,000 tonnes of age tea leaves harvested in our country due to the production of 77,000 and actually 90 thousand hectares that vary according to climate conditions. On the other hand, about 200,000 families are known to produce tea. In this case, the fact remains that there are nearly four acres of tea production in each family. 4.8 tonnes of tea can be bought from 4 acres, and at 2011 prices, it yields around $5,280 a year, which is equivalent to about 440 euros per month. It is understood that the manufacturers, whose only income is tea, are also sentenced to a income below the hunger limit, which is $1,026. In addition, many private companies in the tea market produce tea in unregistered, unscheduled, unscheduled ways. At the same time, there are negatives for industry and producers, since age fails to fulfill its commitments to the teamaker. There have been wrong policies by the state that have encouraged this unhealthy development in the private sector. The government's job is to make the necessary audits and controls in the market. However, in the industry, especially in the dry tea production and packaging phases, it is seen that the state does not see whether there is a license to produce, which threatens public health as well as unjust competition. Another problem is that it should be considered a basic food item and that the VAT rate in dry tea sales should be 1 per cent, while it is still 8 per cent invoice and encourages illegal tea sales. Energy prices used in industry are also high above the world average, which puts the tea industry in a difficult position. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully request that the Constitution be opened under Articles 104, 105, and 105, of which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is in accordance with Articles 98, 98, 98, and 105, in accordance with Articles of the Constitution, on the basis of Article 129 of the Constitution to those responsible for the damages paid by the state for the flawed actions of officers in all ministries. 27/01/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] 6) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 12) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] In accordance with the fifth joke of Article 129 of the Constitution, compensation cases stemming from the shortcomings of officers and other public duties are said to be open only to the administration, in accordance with the forms and conditions shown by the law. In this article of the Constitution, it is said that the compensations paid by the state should be imposed on the imperfect. According to Article 71 of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, the public damage is the violation of the laws stemming from public officials' intent, flaws or negligence, preventing or diminishing public resources as a result of procedures or actions. According to the legal arrangement, public harm is being done as the state does not harm those responsible for the failure of officers. In order to remove or at least reduce the damage to the state, the amount of irreparable compensation from those responsible so far must be investigated. For example, it has been learned that a total of $214,528.24 in compensation has been paid in accordance with the decision made by the court on December 19, 2000 for the operation in Bayrampaşa Prison, but no lawsuit has been filed for this amount. The work must be done to repair the public damages of $214,528.24. In order to determine whether the amount of compensation paid by the state and the amount of the amount that has been paid so far by the state due to their flawed actions, and how to repair public damage due to the undesigned sums, and to prevent further public damage, I respectfully submit to the Constitution's obligation to open a Parliamentary Study on Articles 104 and 105. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Hrant Dink Assassination, the Reverend Santaro Murder and the Malatya Summit publishing house massacre, with respect to the need for the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, in order to investigate whether the constitution was carried out by the same organization and to uncover the facts. 30.01.2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] 6) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 20) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 24) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] In recent years, our country has been staged by the deeply shaken killings of society. On February 5, 2006, this process, which began with the murder of Andrea Santoro, began with the massacre of Hrant Dink, on January 19, 2007, and on April 18, 2007 with the raid of the Summit publishing house in Malatya. After all three incidents, the perpetrators were arrested and brought to trial shortly after that. However, the developments in both the investigation and the prosecution have not been clear. In Malatya, new information came out of the case of three German nationals who were brutally murdered in the missionary massacre showed that the massacre had a lot to do with the murder of Hrant Dink in the planning and execution process. The judge, who did the first interview of the first accused of the massacre in Malatya, would not be able to hand over to them. The statement is that Erhan and Yasin, who were quoted as saying that in the murder of Hrant Dink, the former Trabzon TEM branch manager, fell to the ground, will remove him. He is the member of another youth organization, such as Ogun Samast. S. In close combat training, such as this, the practice of weapons outside the city reveals the similarities of both defendants as personalities. It also reminds me of the time before the Malatya massacre and the coming out of the pocket of Ogun Samast. The camera from the scene of Dink's murder went missing between the morning and noon, and the prosecutor's records were shown in the press that he wanted, but the records were unaccounted for. In the case of Malatya, it has been noted that the camera recording system placed in Emre Good morning's room did not have the ability to copy it to a source other than its own memory and sound. So it wasn't recorded within ten days of the murder. As with Hrant Dink's murder, the investigation has been launched against police and police officers following the Malatya massacre on charges of negligence and obstruction of crime. One of the other things that each three events have in common is that those who were killed are from different cultures of ethnic origin and belief. In view of all these developments, we respectfully submit to the need for parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the Constitution, to investigate whether the Hrant Dink and Malatya massacres were carried out in a broad way related to each other and if they were carried out by the same organization. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In response to the invitation to the incident of Turkish Parliament Speaker Mehmet Sütın, the president of the Mexican Senate, Erneste Cordero Arroyo, in Mexico City, G20 Member States Presidents of Parliaments IV. In order to attend his meeting, the Parliamentary Committee and its visit to Mexico shall be presented to the General Assembly under Article 33620 of Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman I submit the proposal to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0039par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 73°th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-vote the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 05/03/2013, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. It has been suggested that the transcripts of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's 32nd Assembly, dated 6/2/2003, and the transcripts on closed sessions held in March 1, 2003, should be published under the 71st Article of the Interior Charter. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0040par0019	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. As the Republican People's Party Group, on March 1, 2003, we brought our proposal as the People's Party of the Republic for closed session sessions with the Turkish Armed Forces on the deployment of the US Armed Forces and again on February 6, 1, 2003; again regarding Iraq, ahead of the military action against Iraq, before US troops came to Turkey to prepare for this war. The 71st Article of the Civil Code states that closed sessions can be published after ten years. Again, according to Article 97 of our Constitution, closed sessions are published after ten years, by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In fact, the will of the Interior Charter is to issue these proceedings after ten years, without any General Assembly decision, but because the material text has not been written well and has always been made by the General Assembly, I am curious to know what the ruling party group's opinion on this matter is today as the Republican People's Party Group's Consultancy Council, due to the failure of the Consultative Council to decide it cannot be held because a political party is not part of its decision. Dear MPs, on 1 March 2003, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey held a truly historic session; it wrote a page of honor in the history of the Republic of Turkey, which raised, indeed, the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. When we look at the last 60 years of foreign policy history of the Republic of Turkey, we see that there are four basic breaking points. The first is the letter of Johnson in 1964. In Cyprus, after Turkey's armed action against the massacres of the Greeks against the Turks, you can't use the weapons that President Johnson wrote to Prime Minister of the era, Ismet Inöneu. The letter is the first breaking point. The second breaking point is Operation Peace in Cyprus, 1974. Again, the embargo -- or rather, after this action -- is the breaking point. The third breaking point is the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on March 1, 2003. The fourth breaking point was the incident of July 4, 2003, in Iraq, when an American soldier put a bag over the head of the Turkish soldier in Suleymaniye. It is imperative that the talks of the March 1, 2003, be made public. In order to understand how important this thesis is in the history of the Republic of Turkey, we think it is imperative that we share these talks with the nation. I'd like to give you a quick reminder of those days.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0041par0029	Mr. Hamzacebi, may I have your attention for a moment? Congressman, I can't hear you. Please, let's keep the peace in the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0042par0032	It will be remembered, before the March 1st Grand National Assembly of Turkey's decision on the thesis, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was invited to the White House as chairman of the Justice and Development Party. On 10 December, at the White House, he met with Bush, the head of the period. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has not yet been named Prime Minister, there is another Prime Minister in Turkey. Mr. Abdullah Gul is about to form or form a government in Turkey in those days; yes, he has. Mr Abdullah Gul was Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. And Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan made all his contacts in the United States without State Department officials. At the hotel, their own advisors, their own MPs, the State Department and its officials conducted contacts without the Ministry's authorities. What was America's interest in Turkey? It was the redesign of the Middle East. In Iraq, the government at the time was asked to be sent neither 9/11 nor anything else. Long before 9/11, from the 90s, America had the idea of dismantling the administration in Iraq. We see its effects today, in accordance with the American Huntington Project, in the Middle East, there was a struggle to remove the government from Iraq, in accordance with its role in giving Turkey the leadership of the Islamic countries. Dear lawmakers, the first demand for government for the March 1st resolution was the arrival of 62,000 US troops in Turkey, the deployment of 23,000 in Turkey, and the arrival of 37,000 in Iraq along with 31,000 soldiers from the Turkish Armed Forces. America was waging a war on Iraq through Turkey. It was international legitimacy that we, the Republican People's Party, put forward in those days and set conditions. Our chairman at the time, Mr. Deniz Baykal, has expressed for several times that the international legitimacy of our constitution, which was envisioned by Article 92, was not here. On February 27, 2003, Mr. Deniz Baykal made many historical evaluations. I don't have a chance to explain these historical evaluations because they're closed session, because there's no way to share what was said in closed session with you, as I recall, but Mr. Deniz Baykal did those historical evaluations at the closed General Assembly meeting on March 1, 2003, and I think that Mr. Deniz Baykal had a very important share in the rejection of the thesis. Again, in those days, before the closed session, our general secretary at that time, Mr. Commander Sav (Sawar), the speech he made in the procedure discussion, is also in memory today. Turkey has done a very historic task in rejecting the March 1st resolution of the Grand National Assembly. In response to the 264 acceptance vote, 250 MPs voted against it, 19 abstained, but since there were 533 MPs participating in the session who had not been able to reach the absolute majority predicted by the Interior Charter, they were rejected that day because there were no 267 votes to accept it, and the Republic of Turkey avoided the effects of a war that would not end in the Middle East. In fact, the Republic of Turkey has survived one of the most important events in the history of the republic in its session that day by refusing to accept that thesis, it has taken a breath of relief. Dear lawmakers, there was one issue that Mr. Deniz Baykal was standing on that day, which was not very focused on, but was overlooked by the public, which was said to be military agreement documents, called military contracts, political agreement documents, but there was also an economic document. To the two ministers who went to Bush, the President of the United States, what are you doing here, go back to your country, take out the epiphany. You'll all remember the word horse negotiation, horse negotiation. In exchange for entering Iraq, the Republic of Turkey was negotiating money. As a matter of fact, on March 3rd, Prime Minister Abdullah Gul announced that the package was worth 15.8 billion euros after the rejection of that thesis, which he couldn't wait for at 9:00 a.m., because the market was opening at that time, and the markets would be extremely complicated, and the economy would be upside down. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, you've warned the General Assembly, you've interrupted me a little bit, so if you'll excuse me, I'll tidy up. Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, Turkey then, the government of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his team have negotiated a horse with the United States, but Turkey demanding $90 billion has finally agreed to $4 billion. I would like to present to you a statement from Mr Deniz Baykal of the Republican People's Party group on February 27th: Those who will honor Turkey's honour will be those who say no, not those who brought Turkey into this war. In that day's session, those who called that thesis no have raised Turkey's honour. Again, I'd like to finish a sentence by saying here that Mr. Deniz Baykal had gone to Washington that day with a proper beard and returned with an American shave. Let's see if this American shave continues today. I'd like to offer you all an appreciation for the opening of the transcripts. In 2003, the Joint Council of the Justice and Development Party and Republican People's Party's Council came to the General Assembly for their closed session of Operation Gulf in 90, and its confidentiality was unanimously lifted, and I submit the same understanding to the attention of the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0043par0047	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0044par0048	All confidential reports will be released.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0045par0049	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to make a correction. Actually, of course, there's a lot of things, whether I say two words from here, on the stand.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0043par0050	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0045par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we should always be careful what we say in front of history. Of course, we don't forget what's in our memories, of course, but we have to remember that our Prime Minister, Mr. President, was on this trip at the time as President-General. This trip is a courtesy trip. Our Foreign Minister -- Yasar Yakış -- attended this trip at that time, Faruk Logoglu, who is now Republican People's Party MP, then US Ambassador at the time, attended these talks, and different deputies from our party attended this trip. On this trip... I would also like to say that, first of all, there has been no negotiation here, this is a trip to the travel-style apartment. Besides, we've never negotiated our nation's rights with anyone, ever. Also, when asked about the March 1st thesis on that trip, the Prime Minister kindly told us to discuss it with our Prime Minister Abdullah Gul. So I'm making these explanations because I see the need to fix it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0046par0056	Who asked for 92 billion dollars?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0045par0057	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0047par0059	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0046par0060	Ask Ali Babacan.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0045par0061	You shut up!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0047par0063	Congressmans, please! The first word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Nazmi Gür. Yes, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0048par0070	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, well, I guess my luck is, as long as I'm on this stand, Mr. Kamer's starting a fight. Dear friends, I have been promised on behalf of my group on the CHP proposal. Just before the Second Gulf War, which will bring the end of the Baas regime, the United States, NATO and all its allies, was put in front of Turkey on March 1st in an atmosphere known as the March 1, which was tried to organize, and was originally rejected by the government. Dear friends, I'd like to refresh some memories as a member of an institution from Alexanderun's Port to the Sylopi Border Gate, who walked through that area one step at a time, and who, as a human rights advocate at that time, is also the director of a firm opposition to the war. The port of Alexanderun and eventually, about 700-800km [700-800 km] across the border, the entrance of almost all the counties, the entrance of almost all the cities and towns, all the facilities found on the Silk Road route -- including the rest facilities -- in some areas, some industrial areas under construction, including industrial sites -- were being prepared for the passage of the American military, and there was a lot of work to be done. D.C. was confident that both Brussels and then General President Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan were confident that the March 1st issue, including the government's Prime Ministership, would pass freely on the basis of the majority of the AKP (AKP) that day, including Mr. Abdullah Gül. He was very confident in his group and the passing of this March 1st thesis in Parliament. Of course, with that on the government's front, with this on the American front, on the other hand, democratic forces in Turkey have moved their anti-war struggles to the street and raised their voices against the war. Of course, in the Gulf War, we need to think about Iran, especially Israel, and the two opposite axiss, in this process, when we consider Iran and especially in the circumstances of that period, which ultimately enabled different dynamics to take action. Of course, it was a road accident for the AKP, but it was certainly a disappointment for the United States, so that Turkey had become in a position, even to review its strong alliance with the Alliance. In foreign policy, Turkey had a difficult time with the rejection of this thesis, because it was a difficult time because the AKP (AKP) at the time could not really make sense of this rejection, it could not bring any clarity to parliament's will that day. On the other hand, the United States, NATO and other allies were unable to absorb such a blow from a pre-war ally. That was the general view. Of course, in the Middle East, all these authoritarian regimes, in a way for the elimination of the dictatorship regimes, those authoritarians, the creators, the creators of those dictatorships, and those who eventually formed the Middle East, who formed their own interests, now saw these cumbersome structures, these steep regimes as very dangerous for their own interests, and they saw them as regimes to be overcome in their own interest. What they tried in the first Gulf War failed, and in the second Gulf War, America was now taking decisive steps towards overthrowing Saddam's regime with its allies. But there are those who tie him up to the next sack event... when the first lure comes from Turkey with a March 1st note. Dear friends, it is wise to say that the process of the dictatorships of nation states begins in the Middle East, perhaps today called the Arab Spring of the Middle Eastern peoples, in fact, the struggle for democracy and freedoms, both conflicting on two sides, and that there is a situation that actually creates one another, creating the ground for the other. However, after the Second Gulf War, the March 1st was rejected, but the United States, along with its other Arab allies, intervened in Iraq for possession of chemical weapons, mass killing weapons, he entered Baghdad, the Saddam regime fell down, the Iraqi army was wiped out, the Baas regime was purged, the next process and until today, you are already very much involved in this matter. Dear friends, of course there are new situations in this war. For example, a Kurdish formation in what we call South Kurdistan in the northern Iraq region has revealed a federal Kurdish formation. This is a new situation that the war, perhaps Turkey, did not expect or predicted, tried to resist, tried to prevent, but could not prevent, which is now very clear to you that Turkey's concerns and fears about the Kurds, especially considering the relations of Kurdistan Regional Management and Turkey, have been created in that region. Of course, similar situations are happening today. In the Middle East, before March 1st, the political period remains, especially in Syria. The Syrian people, of course, need democracy, of course, freedom. The Syrian people, of course their people, have the right to escape the Assad regime, and of course we have a duty to support the democracy and freedom of the Syrian people, as human beings and as politicians, but not the foot of the goose. Over and over again, we have repeatedly expressed the Syrian foreign policy of the EC PARTY, the wrongs of the foreign policy, and the wrongs of the foreign policy that it already runs. As opposed to Kurdish status that day, the Prime Minister, in particular today, opposes a Kurdish status that will appear north of Syria. However, if the Kurds of Iraq today served as a friend and ally and in this case -- and we, as a party, are willing and willing to hope that the government, as Turkey's Kurdistan Regional Government in Turkey, will be greatly improved -- this time not only to the Kurds, but to the Syrian Kurds, but also to the other peoples there. Dear friends, we favor transparency as parties. It may have different effects on today's political picture, of course, but it can also be very prerequisite for democracy, for democracy in Turkey, and it can be extremely useful for democracy. Although we have taken a solemn pledge, we recommend that these proceedings of parliament be released to the public by the General Assembly's decision under the CHP's proposal, that political scientists, universities, politicians, all of us be informed by reading those transcripts, and that we should take advantage of them in order to guide the political process that we are in today. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0049par0088	Thank you, Mr. Gür. The second statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Mehmet Shandir, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0050par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. What the Republican People's Party Group really wants to bring up today is an important issue for our House, for our country, which demands that an event in the past be presented to the public's knowledge. Dear friends, ten years ago, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- this General Assembly -- signed a very important decision on the future of our nation, and it was rejected on March 1st, as we call it, on March 1, 2003, about sending American soldiers to Iraq and the refusal of Turkey's request for the transfer and deployment and use of this soldier. This is an important issue in Turkish history, in the history of Parliament. Dear friends, in democratic systems, in democratic governances, it's an essential condition, a matter of the information of the nation, which we use for authority. We have no right to do anything in public. If we really are democrats, we have to explain to the public the reasons for the decisions we've made in the name of this nation. Call it transparency or whatever you want to call it, but if you can't explain why you made a decision about the future of the nation that day, then it's a necessity to explain it later. Therefore, we feel it is necessary, we find it useful, to announce the closed session in the General Assembly on the rejection of March 1st. In this regard, on March 4th, we, as the National Movement Party Group, applied to parliament's presidency, and demanded that these proceedings be announced by the Parliament Speaker's initiative, without the appreciation of the provision of the Article 71 of our Civil Code. Dear friends, it must not be a weakness for you to explain these minutes. Is there something you hide or hide from your people? You're developing it by not explaining it. You make it look like you're hiding a shame here. It's no use to our country, it's no use to our House. Of course, there's one other thing: again, politicians who use authority for the nation need to approach the issue first with the benefit of the nation. So what are you hiding from the rejection decision that you made that day, which you had for the benefit of the nation, which you object to being announced today, and we really question that, and we really want to know that. Dear friends, you must remember March 1, 2003. I need to express another reality: the political man, the country-run politician, has to know the past in order to predict the future correctly. Whatever happened in the past has been completed for reasons and consequences, waiting on the dusty shelves of history for us to take lessons. If we don't know the past or -- another definition -- of today's vision of the past, correct that vision, analyze it correctly and determine the cause and outcome, we'll have a hard time understanding today and predicting the future correctly; then, by hand, we'll be able to identify the future. As political men, we need to make our predictions about the future of our country and our nation accurate so that we can take the necessary measures in time and time. Look, ten years ago, here, in our history of Parliament, we need to discuss together as a symbol of a national will, which is one of the meaningful days of our history of democracy, the fact that politicians have not foreseen today's rejection. I'm not going to argue whether he's accepted or not, we're not at that point as the National Movement Party. But there are 533 MPs here that day. Of these 533 MPs, 264 have voted yes, 250 have voted no; 99 of the AKP's 99 MPs have voted no. Dear lawmakers, esteemed government executives, AKP group executives; is 264 wrong or 99 wrong? We respect that will, but you have to explain to the people the reasons for this will, because the decision you made that day was too severe to reflect on these days, too painful. On that day, the conclusion of your decision, unfortunately today, has made the state of the Republic of Turkey to stand before a criminal and beg for help in front of a bloody murderer. Today, no matter what you call it, no matter what you say, let the tears depart. The reason is nothing but deception. Whatever you say to his name, the fact that you went to the feet of the person who created that problem to solve what you described as a problem is that you have reduced the state of the Republic of Turkey. This is a disgrace in the history of the Republic of Turkey and the history of the Turkish nation, I think, in the coming days, to be expressed in treason, a state of lowness. If you could predict the consequences of your decision today on March 2003, perhaps you wouldn't be in this situation today, dear friends. Today, we find it difficult to understand how you don't appreciate the consequences of our insurgency as the National Movement Party, which we can't accept. Dear friends, this is your government in Imralı reports a few days ago, your Prime Minister, how you don't like the statements about Turkey, about the people of Turkey, how you don't object to it, how we find it difficult to understand it, and ask you on behalf of our nation. Dear friends, it's not important to criticize the disclosure of these reports, to criticize them by saying "sabotage." I need you to come down here and explain how you don't judge the content. In its content -- in these reports -- we think it's still the murderer of the empire, the one you remember as the baby killer, the one we remember, says to you, "Look, we offered power to AKP in a golden platter, we brought it." They didn't even thank us. Why don't you do your duty? Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the villain of the Imran.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0051par0106	Mr. Mehmet, that's crazy talk, that's crazy talk.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0052par0107	Sir, what's the point of going over a statement in a newspaper based on illegal statements?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0053par0108	You said the same thing about Oslo, about Oslo.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0109	Look, he says that the coup was planned, that the Prime Minister would be arrested for treason, and I stepped in and started the process.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0053par0110	That's what you stood for when you negotiated with terrorists. That's what you said when Oslo showed up.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0111	Dear friends, I'm ashamed to read them.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0055par0112	Mr. Mehmet, you're in charge. That's some crazy shit...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0056par0113	We don't give away those who insult us.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0114	And what he told you, I read your article today, Mr. Metiner. Therefore, I say that if you can't predict yesterday's day, you can't predict what it's going to cost people in the future. (Applause from MHP rows) You, at this rate, are throwing this country into the abyss... you don't realize you've divided this country and this nation, dear friends. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you that we're living today, not in the sense of criticism, but because you can't predict yesterday. You dropped the government and the nation at the foot of a bloody killer. Since you don't present these days right, we'd like to remind you where we're going tomorrow. What's the point of seeking help from the man who sheds the blood of this nation and makes mothers cry?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0057par0116	It's not like that, it's not like that!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0117	What isn't? What isn't? Aren't you negotiating with the Imran? What are you doing? You won't be able to answer to these people, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0058par0118	We'll pay, we'll pay.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0119	You won't be able to pay for...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0059par0122	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0060par0123	I'll see you in the trunk.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0124	If you've done nothing wrong here on March 1st, if you don't have anything to hide from the people, let the reports be explained in a moment, and let us see the facts.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0061par0126	We're not hiding anything.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0062par0127	Silence is a virtue. Silence is a virtue. At least have the courage to shut up!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0054par0128	Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0063par0130	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0064par0131	We don't let any insult go unrequited.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0065par0132	Mind your own business. Be virtuous, a little virtuous.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0066par0133	What do you believe in? What do you believe?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0067par0134	Congressmans, please... The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Salim Beslim. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0138	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. In fact, what we're discussing here is not just discussing the political consequences of the dissertation decision, as the speakers have just spoken. What we're discussing here is a technical problem. So the March 1st thesis is to determine whether the confidential session logs should be disclosed. So it would be more appropriate to look at it from the Constitution and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0069par0140	Look how you look at it. How do you decide how to look at us?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0141	Or, the March 1st thesis, whether it's good or bad, whether it's right or wrong, there's a lot to say about it, and it's very wrong to describe the will of that day as a road accident.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0069par0142	Your Foreign Secretary says so.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0143	It's not a road accident, it's a direct Parliamentary will, and it's expected that everyone will respect the will of the House. Now, the valuable speakers of the Republican People's Party have been making statements for a few days now to announce the secret session of March 1st. However, it has been announced that this is a political attraction, and it has been revealed that the only way to explain the transcripts of the secret sessions of that day would not be to ask the Speaker to release these transcripts. As a matter of fact, when we look at the Constitution and the Civil Code, there is no question that a statement of the will of the House should be announced by the Speaker of Parliament to be appreciated. As a matter of fact, when we review the transcripts of both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Senate, we find that in the joint minutes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Parliament and the Senate, joint Presidential Court decisions will be discussed, and if there is a consensus there, the secret proceedings will be released to the public. As you know in the later amendment to the Civil Code, the Senate has been lifted and replaced by the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Advisory Board. Several times now, the Council of Counsellors has decided to release the confidential reports. As a matter of fact, we have the numbers on these. For example, the 211 Council of Counsellor's proposal has been decided to vote in parliament, and this 211 Council of Counsellor's decision has again been carried out by the joint decision of the parties, which means that both the 97th article of our Constitution and the 71st Article of our Interior Charter have clearly pointed to a compromise, an inter-party agreement, and so far only by a compromise on the Council of Parliament's secret sessions have reached the agenda of Parliament. And indeed, before that,
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0070par0146	That's the protocol.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0147	E, of course, in democracies, the principles of democracy are also important, so democracy is not only written rules, it's also built with democratic wills, joint wills, and it needs to be taken care of, as well.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0071par0148	But it's not essential.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0149	Thirty-nine secret meetings have been made so far, and these have not been disclosed or opened, even though they have completed ten years. Again, it was by the will of the House. Again, because 21 secret meetings have not yet completed ten years, of course they haven't been on our agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to express here in particular is that today is not the time to discuss the results of the March 1st thesis, and therefore we are against it. However, we need to discuss them in a more calm setting. It is not only here that the March 1st thesis was discussed by the March 1st Article, but that it is possible to explain all of this from the establishment of this Parliament, which has been hidden in parliament for 90 years, whatever secret sessions have been made. This is possible only by the will of the House. Dear lawmakers, running a state is a serious matter. It is not a very right and serious policy to view it as the material of our daily political policies and to extract a culture of conflict from confidential reports or to produce a political competition. In that respect, the Republican People's Party, which has the best policy of state and nationalism, knows that dissolving the security side of the state today would mean discussing the state in public. So I'd like to point out that we don't find it right as the AK PARTY Group to be discussing the position of the state in secret sessions during the process that we're going through right now. In his speech a few days ago, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said that Turkey has serious problems and that these problems must be resolved with social consensus. I think I got that from his March 1st speech. I think it's the right approach. In particular, those from the union culture know very well that since social consensus has reflected the common will in matters that concern almost all of society, it is certainly the right way to make a compromise effort that will reflect it. Although the 19th Amendment has left the general council's will on decisions that do not come from the Council of Counsellors or from the Council of Counsellors, the decision of the Council of Ministers is in fact pointing to a search for a compromise here, such a compromise has not been achieved and has always been made by the Council of Counsellor's decision. Therefore, we also feel that we should seek and act accordingly to the decision of the Council of Counsellors. There's one particular thing I'd like to point out here. Mr. Group Vice President of the National Movement Party. Are you afraid of those days? It's not the government's weakness, they said. Yes, we have no fear of those days. On that day, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey established a will, and the soldier who came to Turkey, in particular, went back with the rejection of the dissertation that day. Therefore, not if anyone's beard is suitable for their education or if their haircut is an American haircut, but who's looking at the back of their necks in those days. So, here, the AK PARTY is not a party to go to, and there's nothing to go to.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0072par0154	Well, explain it to me!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0073par0155	Well, explain it to me!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0156	The only thing is...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0074par0157	Why don't you explain?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0158	Look, we're talking about...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0075par0159	Then respect the will of the House.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0068par0160	The will of the House is clear and we respect that will. According to the Civil Charter, an advisory council will, of course, do so if it is brought to the agenda of the General Assembly if it is brought before you. This type, of course, which has been brought to the Parliament General Assembly, ignoring democratic regulations and Civil Code provisions so far, states that we are against the proposals, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0076par0163	Thank you, Mr. Goody.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0077par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0076par0165	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0077par0166	Sir, not as a tease, but as a matter of record. My question is very clear: 264 of the 367 AKP MPs voted yes, 99 of them voted no. We respect both their wills, but we can only understand which is right and which is wrong in the closed session that day. We want that explained. That's the bottom line. Otherwise, it was not right to take our word for it or to disrespect the will. But why did 99 of the AKP's MPs say no to this statement that day, and why did 264 say yes, and why should the reasons be explained here?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0076par0167	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0078par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0076par0169	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0078par0170	Now, Mr. Speaker has said in his speech that such decisions have been taken upon the Council of Counsellors' decision. That's the protocol, of course, but if the Council of Counsellors can't make a decision, there's nothing wrong with the General Assembly making that decision. The date wants to issue its verdict on March 1st, and the report on March 1st will be released so that the date can be judged.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0079par0171	They're ashamed.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0078par0172	I mean, why is the Justice and Development Party afraid or worried? We have very dear friends in that group who say no, I know, who have served in the government, who have served in the Parliament, who still serve in the government.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0080par0173	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0078par0174	So let's let these friends have the honor, let the public know everyone's names. The whole nation and the public need to know behind the scenes of these events.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0081par0176	That's for the General Assembly to decide.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0080par0177	I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0082par0179	Mr. President, under Article 97 of the Constitution, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey shall be declared under Parliament's decision to hold a secret session. The 71st Article of the Civil Charter of Turkey can be announced after the end of the decade. It is said that the provisions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can be issued.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0083par0180	It says... explainable.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0082par0181	It says... explainable. However, after this date or before that, the Council of Counsellor's decision to make it clear, and the General Assembly's decision. Now, in that case, there's a doubt. Ten years out; Turkey's Grand National Assembly has not made a decision not to disclose it, so it must be explained. So, look, very clearly, read the 71st Article of the Interior Charter, where it says, "It can be explained after ten years. " To explain it before or after this date, the Council of Counsellor must decide and the General Assembly must decide. Now, since the Council hasn't decided whether or not to make a decision to make a decision -- even though it's been 10 years -- not to be explained -- then give us an answer or open up a discussion on this matter, sir. So let's make a decision about that.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0185	Thank you. Now, wait a second... I read Article 97 of the Constitution: The talks on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are open, and it will be published in a full report magazine. A closed session can be held in accordance with the rules of the Turkish Parliament's Civil Code, and the publication of the talks in these sessions depends on the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Therefore, a decision must be made.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0085par0189	In Article 71 of the Civil Code, it says, sir...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0190	I read the 71st article of the Civil Code: closed session logs and summarys can be published after ten years from closed session date.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0085par0191	It can be published, yes.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0192	The General Assembly shall decide whether or not they should be published before or after the proposal of the Council of Counsellors. The proposal of the Counsellor Council to bring the matter to the agenda of the Council of Counsellors in political party groups has been seen to be published by the decision of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. Closed session minutes, however, are not possible for the release of the resen by our presidency of the articles on the basis of the decision of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. However, it is possible for political party groups to bring the matter to the agenda of the Council of Counsellors and to be presented with the General Assembly in this way as a recommendation of the Council or group.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0086par0194	Enough with the shame!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0087par0195	No, Mr. President, if you'd like, let's discuss this procedure, because the Civil Code decree is very vague, says it can be explained.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0196	Well, Mr. Young, I'll just...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0088par0197	What are they afraid of?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0198	I mean, this is something that has nothing to do with me.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0089par0199	They're ashamed, they're ashamed.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0200	I'll open it, just a second...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0089par0201	They have shame, shame.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0084par0202	This is something you need to discuss with the Speaker, but I'm going to open up the legal debate. I'll give you my first promise. Please...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0090par0205	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0091par0206	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0092par0207	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0093par0208	No, what's wrong with that?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0094par0209	So there was an argument my way, so I'm opening it. Here you go, three minutes. He'll speak against you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0095par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there is an open sentence in the Constitution now, says in Article 97: The Grand National Assembly of Turkey will hold a closed session and its closed sessions will be announced by the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But according to a Constitutional decree, the Turkish Parliament will do its work according to this Civil Charter, which can be explained after ten years of closed session time in the second statement of the 71st Article of the Civil Charter. After that date or before that, after the closed session minutes have been held, the Council of Counsellors will decide whether it should be announced or later, and the General Assembly will decide. Now, ten years later, March 1st is over, ten years are over. Now, since the Council of Counsellors has not made a decision to release these proceedings on a later date and has not made a decision from the General Assembly, this period is ten years, so it should be explained either way, so it's very clear internal regulations. Then what? So let's assume the Council of Counsellors hasn't made up their minds and came to the General Assembly and didn't make any decisions, and these reports will remain closed?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0096par0217	It won't be explained.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0095par0218	The Civil Code says ten years. How do you increase ten years? In order for this to be explained after ten years, the Council of Counsellors will have to make a decision and the General Assembly will decide. Then, there's no point in keeping these things confidential. I mean, let the public know what was said in this Turkish Grand National Assembly, what party, what MP talked about this vital issue, what was that? I mean, how long is it gonna be closed like this? So, then, the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey needs to resenize this, so he doesn't need to come here as a group proposal. Unfortunately, our Parliament Speaker doesn't have his own will, except for the work of the Assembly -- I mean, on the basis of the Constitution and the Civil Code -- whatever Mr. Recep says. He says: "Go to the Constitutional Compromise Commission, tell the parties to draw up the constitution and bring it by this time." He comes and mediates it. The Speaker's going to be a little neutral, he's going to run the House objectively, that's not gonna happen, folks. I mean, there's an open sentence here according to the Constitution, according to the Civil Code, which is very clear, but it doesn't do its duty. What's he afraid of? Then you make a decision, delay the release of these March 1st papers for another ten years, so it's up to you. So, after such a decision has not been made, closed sessions are mandatory according to the 71st Article of the Civil Code; otherwise it would be arbitrary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that respect, sir, the position of the Presidential Court is wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0097par0224	Thank you, Mr. Young. Lehte İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0098par0228	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views in favour of the presidential position in the debate on the procedure. On this occasion, I salute your high council. In the second article of Article 97 of the Constitution, the esteemed MPs can hold closed hearings according to the provisions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the publication of the talks in these sessions depends on the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Again, in Article 71 of the Civil Charter, which took effect in 1973, the procedure for the release of these closed sessions has been laid out. According to this, closed sessions and summarys can be published after ten years of closed session date. The General Assembly shall decide whether or not they should be published before or after the proposal of the Council of Counsellors. Dear lawmakers, in the 98th Article of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey of 1927 -- this is the provision of the Charter of 1973 -- the process of publishing secret law enforcement there, explicitly, and with which I have just read it, two new dimensions have been brought to the issue, without any need to make any decisions at the end of the period. There is a decree in the Charter of 73, which is now in effect. According to this, the commandary statement in the proposal, which constitutes the basis for the Civil Code, was accepted as,,,,,,,,,,,,,, and therefore the authoritarian quality of the judgment has become an admirable dimension. Second: An arrangement has been made for the issue to be submitted to the General Assembly, and according to this, it has been tied to the Council of Counsellors' proposal instead of the Presidential Court, and on this proposal, the General Assembly's decision. Dear MPs, our esteemed MP Salim Nice Bey, who has just spoken on behalf of our group, has also stated that 211 of the closed sessions have been published. Even though ten years have passed, 55 of the closed sessions in the past have not been published. This includes what was before our time, and what was in our era. Therefore, it is against the Constitution and the Civil Code that the closed session sessions are automatically published by the resen presidency at the end of the deadline, unless the Supreme Assembly has a decision on this matter. That's why I say that Mr. President's position is in order, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0099par0235	Let's make a decision together.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0100par0236	Mr Mehmet Shandır is the MP of Mersin to speak against him in the Usul debate.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0101par0239	Mr. President, we're discussing a matter that, in fact, we need to close before we waste people's time, without a very long discussion. The legal aspect of the issue is not too important, but according to the Civil Code 71, the Speaker of Parliament had been given initiative, but the initiative had not been used until now, and since a meeting of the Council of Counsellors has been established, the Speaker of Parliament had to submit to the General Assembly this request made by the two parties. It is against the Civil Code, whether it is contrary to the Constitution or not, it is necessary not to discuss it much, but not to overlook the nature of the matter. Look, we went through a similar process today ten years ago. Ten years ago, a decision made by this House occurred today. In our opinion, we live in a process that is at the heart of our nation, an insult to this nation. In order to avoid a similar outcome in the future, we have to question or know what happened in the past. It's the eve of important decisions. Dear lawmakers, in the coming process, there will be a lot of fundamental laws that will determine the future of our nation, the future of our country; in order for you to make the right decision in these laws, you need to know yesterday. A similar example of yesterday happened to this General Assembly ten years ago. 99 members of the AKP MP voted no to this statement, and you have to know their reasons. Without knowing these reasons, you will be responsible for God with your fingers raised to the law that will be brought before you tomorrow. 264 AKP MPs voted yes to the thesis. On what grounds did he vote yes, and on what grounds did he vote no, and let us find out what we want. Why are you avoiding this? We're questioning it. What are you hiding? I spoke to the Speaker. Of course, the groups have to decide. Group managers are here. The president of the group, Mr. Prime Minister, is hiding what information from this nation? I thought you were a nation-based power. I thought you didn't hide anything from people.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0102par0243	We know what we're doing.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0101par0244	Dear friends, I repeat. We're seeing the consequences of yesterday's events today. The results we're seeing today are sinking into our hearts, and you have insulted the state of the Republic of Turkey, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, in front of a criminal. You must have an answer to that. I'm not saying anything to you to object to the release of these reports, but why don't you object to its contents? Why don't you come up here and say, "This is crazy," instead of talking to me? You have to know yesterday so you don't have to face any more severe consequences tomorrow. If the Muslim falls into the same pit twice, the responsibility is his own. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is what we'd like to remind you of. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0103par0247	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Last word in favour of the Usul debate, Mr. Recep of Isparta is in private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0104par0251	Mr. President, I have made a promise in favor of your position regarding the highly valued MPs' policy debate. I salute you all. Yes, many times in the history of our House, there have been secret sessions, secret talks. Some of these have been announced and published by the Council of Counsellors and by the Supreme Assembly, and it has been decided to be published. There's nothing we're afraid of as an AK PARTY about the latest March 1 thesis or not being announced. However, the topic of the debate of the procedure has been discussed here at the point where the Parliamentary Presidency should issue this without any decision.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0105par0253	No, no. You got it all wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0104par0254	If you read Article 71 well, the closed session logs and summary can be published after ten years from closed session date. There is no commandary decree. It can be published. It further points to the necessity of a Parliament's decision, whether before or later, whether it separates from earlier or later, whether it is announced before or after ten years, or if it is announced after ten years. Otherwise, it is not possible for the Parliamentary Council, the Parliamentary Council to publish them on its own, according to the Constitution and the Civil Code. Therefore, the position of president is in order. The release of these proceedings without a parliamentary ruling is not right and not right. We don't have the heads of some terrorist organization here on the grounds of this kind of debate. We don't want to get into any of this. Turkey is running fast towards a peace process. Please, let's not try to sabotage this in any way, any opportunity at all. Whether you want to or not, I say we will bring peace to this Turkey. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0106par0257	Thank you. There's no change in my attitude. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0107par0260	Sir, I would like to say that according to Article 71 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0106par0261	I said there's no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0107par0262	No, there's nothing you can do anyway, but the 71st article states that the Court must decide on the Court's decision in order to explain these proceedings ten years ago or ten years later. Until today, neither has the Council of Counsellors -- I mean, three or four days -- decided, nor has the General Assembly made a decision. What's it gonna be? In this case, apply the 71st Article of the Civil Code as President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0106par0263	Now, Mr. Young, look, I've done everything you asked. For God's sake, period. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 05.03.2013, I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafting of Laws 426 and 310 from the Commissions and Proposals of Laws shall be taken to the 4th and 5th places of the agenda, and the order of other tasks shall be determined according to this; On Friday, March 8, 2013, outside of weekly working days, it's 2:00 p.m. The meeting at 00, and the discussion of other jobs involved in the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions in this merger; On Tuesday (March 12, 19 and 26, 2013), the talks of other audit issues, following the discussion of oral questions, were not discussed for an hour; the talks of other jobs from the Commission and other jobs from the Commission were discussed on the agenda; 6, 13, 20, and on Wednesday (March 27, 2013) the unspoken questions were not discussed; On Tuesday (March 5th 2013), until the meeting of the Law Proposal No. 428 on Tuesday (today) was completed, with no discussion of verbal questions or other control issues. Until Wednesday, March 6, 2013, when the talks were completed until the 348th Bill of the Law were merged; Until Thursday, March 7, 2013, when the talks were completed until the 424th Bill of the Law were merged; On Friday (March 8, 2013), until the meeting of Friday's merger, until the meeting of the Legislature of 49 rows, was completed; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. If the day's schedule is incomplete at 00, the day's schedule will be completed; 12th, 19th and 26th March 2013, 15th, 20th Tuesday. Between 00 hours; On Wednesdays 13, 14, 20, 21, 27, and 28 March 2013, and Thursdays, between 2:00 and 2000 hours, Laws 426 and 310 rows have been proposed to be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and its divisions in the accompanying table. 426 Numbered Electric Market Law Bill [[1/724]] Number of Articles in Sections Articles Chapter 1 - Article 25 Chapter 2 - Article 26 - Article 33 [[Of Article 30]] [[1.2]] And (3,4,5) with the pearl jokes 310 Numbered Strangers and International Protection Law Bill [[1/619]] Number of Articles in Sections Articles Chapter 1 - Article 30 Chapter 2 Episode 31 - 60 Chapter 3 Episode 61 - Article 30 Chapter 4 - Article 91 - Article 22 Chapter 5 - Article 113 - Article 28 One, two, three, four, The 5th joke (a), (b) (c), (d)bents 6.7,8,9 In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0108par0316	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, on our group's recommendation, the hours and days of parliament's work within March are being organised, and some legislation and proposals are suggested to be placed on the front of the agenda. According to this, Power Market Law 426 in two sections, 50 points to the fourth order of the agenda, Foreign and International Protection Act to the fifth place on the agenda... that's five chapters, 140 articles. Both of these laws are now important. The Electric Market Law contains particularly important regulations concerning the license. The laws of foreign protection and protection will also fill a legal gap in this issue because international protection legislation is not yet in our internal law at the level of law. This law is even more vital, especially with refugees from Syria who have taken refuge in our country, prepared in harmony with the European Union's acquisitor. Therefore, these laws should be discussed at once. Again, March 12th, starting next week, valuable lawmakers are recommended on Tuesdays from three to eight o'clock, Wednesdays and Thursdays from two to eight o'clock. Until the completion of the talks on the bill called 2/B, it is scheduled to meet again tomorrow -- if the Supreme General Assembly accepts it -- and to discuss the International Protection Act on Thursday. If these studies are not complete on Thursday, it is also recommended that our Parliament meet and continue its work on Friday. Our proposal, at the point of efficiency and efficiency of the Parliament's work, is in an important process... at this moment, especially in the interest of law enforcement against the Syrian issue, I hope that all of our MPs will be able to support it, with respect to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0109par0323	Smyrna MP Aytun Çıray against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0110par0326	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I believe the debate that was just held here will, in fact, go from the perspective of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the exemplary scene of history. Because we've seen the debate here that the Justice and Development Party is afraid of two things. One of them is bright. If they weren't afraid of light and transparency, they wouldn't have hesitated to announce the March 1st meeting just now. Second, I had the idea that the Justice and Development Party was doing something embarrassing. Because if they weren't ashamed of what they're doing, about the talks they just read here, he's crazy. Instead of protesting, they would come and defend their work here. Now, very valuable MPs, there are so many disasters in people's lives that sometimes we bury these disasters deep in our memory. In our history, perhaps the most dramatic of these disasters is the great request that we have in the Balkans and Caucasus to begin with in Crimea. In the last thousand years of the Turkish nation, there may not have been this much pain. But what makes us great is that we are now exhausted. Even at what is said, we will rise up again with the divine power of God and build a nation and a state. Dear lawmakers, we've been exposed to many traumatic crimes in the Balkans, including genocide, ethnic cleansing, deportation. If others had experienced what we had experienced during that time, they would have produced countless stories and films of genocide. But even though we left this land, 500 years old, as lawful as our mother's white milk, we left it in oblivion. Why did we leave? Why did we leave? Because most of the republic's constituents, especially Ataturk, were born and raised in Balkan and Caucasus cities, they were trying to save it from what could be saved from a collapsed empire -- they had no time to deal with it, they had no time to mourn. Today, for us Balkans, Crimean and Caucasians, who are half the population of Turkey, we acted in accordance with our word, the arm broke, it was eaten. Whereas our losses were too big to download a broken arm. But no one has ever thought of creating a Caucasian problem or a Balkan problem from these great pains. We acted under the principle of peace and peace in the yurtta. As we display this nobility, the horny showmen walk through propaganda with different accounts and collaborators. It's highly systematicly sought to cloud the consciousness of our human identity, restructure it. You know, in late 2002, five elderly women were attacked in Samatya. Three of the victims were Armenian Turks. The media, however, gave a very different interpretation of these murders to the public. In particular, there was an attempt to establish a relationship between the alleged Armenian genocide and the death of a citizen named Maritsa Minor. If you ask me, that's what's behind Hrant Dink's murder and Hrant Dink's murder. The Turks who did these massacres today want to make them wonder what they had done in 1915! Gentlemen, the esteemed MPs, Istanbul police caught the murderer of the Samatya murders yesterday. We have an Armenian-born citizen, Murat Nazaryan, who is suspected of the incidents presented as a manifestation of racial hatred. Of course, it doesn't matter what the origin of a murder suspect is. But as these sad events were reported, the Turkish nation was targeted, and the possibility that these incidents could be petty theft and murder crimes was ignored, and the Turkish nation was tried to become victims of a veiled hate speech. Thus, our people were tempted to feel that it was not good to be part of the Turkish nation. Dear MPs, let's see the game now; the Turkish nation is the target. Our young people are under attack by hate agents. They want to instill shame in our young people. In doing so, they hide their own pure racist hatred and declare patriots racist, making the worst possible hostility to the Turkish nation and Turkey. Dear MPs, one of the six readings of CHP is nationalism. This is founding nationalism. Founding nationalism is a feeling that stimulates the dynamics of modernisation, expressing the sense and idea of patriotism. We're done talking about it, but once again, this nationalism has nothing to do with racism and it has nothing to do with racism, it's just the sense of patriotism and the idea that gives us the determination to capture and pass modernity. This is a sense of nationalism that allowed us to survive the great collapses of the first quarter of the 20th century. All of our values, especially the Republic of Turkey, are the product of nationalism that the Prime Minister is trying to take under his feet. We, the Balkan Turks, we all appreciate the importance and value of this because this emotion has shown that a genuine peace can only be achieved by national unity. This experience is a priceless treasure to our nation. Now, exactly a century later, the actors of the historically nourished political Islamist and separatist intellectuals, Erdogan and his wife Prime Minister Apo, want to devalue that feeling and that idea. That's why they do the real racism themselves, but the precious MPs, the camouflage breaks, the masks fall off, the facts give themselves away. As Erdogan took nationalism under his feet, Mr. Sakık stood on the floor of the House, and you came from the mountain, and fired the laces. He said, "You're a racist." I warn everyone here that ethnic emotion and spirit are the fires of racism, burning and burning, leaving nothing but regrets of destruction and pain. This fire will destroy the roof that brought us together. This means the loss of a shared vision of the future. Erdogan and his people may be pleased with it now, they may have a sense of victory, but the Turkish nation, whose country was once taken away from him in the past, will not allow it again. For him, as I had already expressed before, I would finish with this every word of my speech, every time in the Roman Senate of Calto, which I had promised, as he said, to the Kartaca. I say to the one who says, "Happy is my Turk." I say, "I pay my respects."
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0111par0336	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. In favor of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Mr. Sırým Sakık is the final word. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0340	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. So from February 28th to today, we are witnessing serious debates in this Parliament. There was talk today on March 1st, but after March 1st, there's March 2nd. There was a civil coup in this Parliament, so those who talked about right, justice, fear of God, that's what was done against the national will. Those who said, on February 28th, I listened to our friends, the victims of February 28th, but there was a civilian coup in this Parliament. This coup was made against Kurdish lawmakers, soldiers and civilians, the political world, to silence the Kurdish voice on the democratic floor, took us from Parliament by hand. We stayed here for four days, but unfortunately there was not a single person in this Parliament who said anything about March 2nd. So today, when you're talking about human rights, law, democracy, the people's will was struck against the people's will, and it's been painful years. Look, not a single MP was arrested on February 28th, but in the March 2nd coup, six MPs were imprisoned, arrested for decades, and are still living in exiles, in Europe, and in exiles all over the world. Democracy doesn't have a double standard. If you're against the coups, you'll be against February 28th, against April 27th, against September 12th, against Marta 12th. You say you're against them, but you're not opposed to the coup against the Kurds on March 2nd... unfortunately, the Commission for Research on Impacts has given a terrible test at this point. They've summoned all the coupters here and questioned the actors in the process, but unfortunately the Commission has not held up its end of the 2nd of March. We can't build law, peace in this country without questioning March 2nd, without judging March 2nd. Look, Mr. Hatip Dicle, the victim of March 2nd, is still in prison from 1994 to now, and is an elected MP of the people's will, which means that the operations carried out by the 2nd March coup... are in the prison of over 10,000 people under the name of today's power. If we're talking about the peace process, democracy, social reconciliation, mutual legitimacy, we need to get these 2 Marches on the table. With the spirit of March 2nd, we cannot make peace in this country. Look, what happened on March 2nd was a long-term operation to reduce the voice of Kurdish politics on democratic ground. Those who took us on that date, those who couldn't find a single piece of evidence against us, the judges know that, so there's gonna be arrests on evidence, but they took us and arrested us. He even told us four prosecutors -- including the attorney general -- that you will not be arrested. But the soldiers ordered us to take us away and arrest us, and then they went with helicopters to create crime and evidence in the area. This is known in the history of Turkey, but no one moves when it comes to Kurds. That's not a democracy. This happened at that time, and we are victims of that history, and when the hands were raised at that time, we said, "Look, the gods commanded you, the soldiers commanded you to raise your hand. We're leaving, we're advocates of a righteous struggle, so we didn't look back much when we came here. We know we're going to suffer, we know we're going to get arrested, but we're right, we're going to come, and when we do, you're going to be in the dumpster of history. Who decided that period on that date, they're all in the dumpster of history. Now, I say this as a friend: from September 12th, from March 12th, as much as we owe, it's our duty to answer on March 2nd. Now, those who accuse us of racism, go look in the mirror, you're dripping with fascism, don't accuse us of racism. I know what I'm saying and I stand by it. If you come out here and humiliate one people, raise other peoples, raise another people's pain, and drag other people's pain into the ground, we have a lot of things to say to you. We went out and answered him. If you come back here and lock all the identities in one identity, we have your word. We have no injustice, no disrespect to any man from the Balkans or Caucasus or from all over the world who has made this land his home. But who did we tell? If you have been persecuted in Bosnia, if you have been persecuted by the Serbs, if you have been persecuted by Milosevic, but come here and become a racist in the Turkish identity, if you take the lines, axes, attack the Kurds, attack the Kurds with the Serbian spirit, we promise you a promise. My word is racist and nationalist.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0113par0348	We'll kick his ass.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0349	Or we don't have a word in this geography for anyone who's embraced the brotherhood of the people.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0114par0350	What a turn-on!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0351	So, if you attack the Kurdish neighborhood in Burma...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0115par0352	Well, don't lie, who's attacking the Kurds?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0353	... if you attack in Sakarya, if you attack in Afyon, and then return with police support, Alperen, with the support of the Ülkü Januarys...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0115par0354	Yeah, he's lying, he's lying. Any luck?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0355	Go on, you're the one who's lying.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0115par0356	Any luck?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0357	I do, sir. Look, the government, open it up, ask the minister who did it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0116par0358	You're a government man!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0359	You're lying. My word is theirs. Dear friends...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0117par0361	You answer for PKK brutality in the southeast.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0362	You'll answer for it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0117par0363	You have to answer to the cops, the soldiers who were killed in the southeast.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0364	Look, over the dead soldier and the police...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0117par0365	You're spreading propaganda to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0366	Don't make politics out of cops and soldiers, we forbid you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0117par0367	Come on, you do it, you do it! Your right, yes!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0368	Look, I'm not doing it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0118par0369	You're doing politics for the Kandil!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0119par0370	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0371	It's your policy in this country that these people...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0118par0372	Go talk to your partners, go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0373	If this war continues, if this fight continues, it's a reflection of rejection and denial policies.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0118par0374	What rejection, what denial?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0375	What are you denying... Don't make that ugly noise!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0118par0377	The PKK, which massacres east and southeast, is the PKK that kills Kurdish people.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0378	Now, look, if you're talking about 30,000, 40,000, 50,000 people, 30,000 of them are PKK militants and guerrillas.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0379	You can't even say terrorist.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0380	We take care of their pain, we take care of the dead soldier's pain.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0381	Look, you can't even say terrorist!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0382	So, tell me, who is the killer of the 17500 perpetrators? Can you tell me who burned the 3500 villages?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0383	Pity! That was a lie, too.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0384	That's you and your mentality.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0385	That was a lie, too.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0121par0386	Al, Mardin Nusaybin...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0387	What else do you know about him? What do you know about him?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0388	What do you know?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0112par0389	What do you know about anything other than saying the same thing every day?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0122par0390	You speak the language of blood, blood language!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0391	What do you know, except to provoke, to put a bullet in your brother?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0123par0392	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0124par0393	So, look, there's a peace process going on.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0120par0394	What do you know about anything but provocation?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0124par0395	Dear friends... Mr. President, would you shut him up? Friends, there's a peace process going on. All roads have been tried, all fighting methods have been tried, for the first time, Turkey's peoples are this close to peace in Turkey. The anti-peace fighters will form a front, attack.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0125par0398	You and the AKP are peacemakers, are you?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0124par0399	We will not surrender to them. We will build peace in this country; in the integrity of this country, we will build peace in this country on the basis of equal citizenship, and when we build peace, make sure that... how did I say that on March 2nd of 1994, on this platform, again, on March 2nd of 1994, I will point out that you will take us and send us away; we will come and you will disappear. Now I say again from here: We, look, we, we will build peace in this country, very soon there will be peace in this country. We will come, the anti-peaceists will be destroyed, buried in the garbage of history.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0126par0400	Never, never!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0124par0401	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0127par0403	Sevr was also called the Peace Accord. Those who contribute to Sevr will learn the same lesson as those who have learned their lesson in history. Are you pushing the new Sevr Agreement with the AKP?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0128par0404	Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat won't be afraid of the Justice and Development Party proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0129par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0128par0406	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0129par0407	I'm a former president of the Ülkü Januarys.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0128par0408	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0129par0409	Ülkü January has nothing to do with the issues of the country that can be blamed for nationalism. In the southeast, we, our late Mayor of Bingol, have given martyrs from Hikmet Tekin, who himself is Zaza, from Mustafa Kılıçaslan in Ağrı, from Hadji, from Hadji, from Kurd, himself. The PKK dogs killed them. No one here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will make history dark by accusing Turkish nationalists of racism, racism, and other statements. It's rude, it's wrong. Patience has an end, and the end of this patience must not end with the hate speech here.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0128par0410	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0130par0411	Patience is a means to an end.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0131par0412	You're not going to say it, you're going to say it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0132par0413	Today in prison, I condemn the words of a bandit who rebelled against the state with hatred, who humiliated the citizens of the Republic of Turkey with a number of powerful words. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0133par0414	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0132par0415	He rebelled against the state, even if he was a congressman, he'd be arrested, everyone would be arrested. There's 94, 85, where there's nothing going to happen.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0133par0416	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0134par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0133par0418	Sir?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0135par0419	There's no government rebellion here.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0134par0420	He has no right to talk like that!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0135par0421	There's no government rebellion here.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0136par0422	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0134par0423	He has no right to talk like that!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0135par0424	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0134par0425	Please shut him up!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0135par0426	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0137par0427	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0138par0428	Wait a second, we're taking turns now.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0139par0429	You'll talk poison from there, and we won't.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0138par0430	Look, now everybody...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0140par0431	No, you have to be equal. Not everyone here has the right to say what they think.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0141par0432	Why are you saying what you think?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0140par0433	He can't! We're thirsty, we're patient, that's enough!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0142par0434	Who's making this coven nervous? Tell the one next to you!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0143par0435	You divide the government, tear it apart, you say everything here...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0144par0436	That's enough! Our history, our identity...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0145par0437	Who's patient here?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0146par0438	Everyone has an identity. Even animals have identity, trees, stones, people have identity. I have an identity, too.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0144par0439	People of Kurdish origin will be asked to account for the people who shot them.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0146par0440	Why are you making politics out of identity?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0144par0441	Those who want to take them away from us will be questioned.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0147par0442	Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0148par0443	Mr. President, the speaker is saying that there are Ülkü Januarys in the events at the platform and in other matters, and that there are members of the MPP. I'm a member of the Fellowship...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0147par0444	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0148par0447	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Speaker says that there are young people from January, National Movement Party members on this platform, in press conferences, in connection with events in Bursa. I've been a follower of these events from the beginning to the end, and if they can identify and bring in a member of the Ülkü January or National Movement Party who was there, who was detained, or in any way involved in that photograph, I'm resigning as a member of the parliament.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0149par0449	Or it could be, never mind.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0148par0450	But at one point, a 30-year-old Erzurumian died there after he provoked the incidents there and provoked the police and brought down the glass frames of the people in the sensitive area and provoked the windows of the cars. A 30-year-old Erzurumian, a Erzurumian brother with a three-year-old child, died in those events. So don't let the people fool around here with words like, "The people of January are attacking the neighborhood" and so on, and so on, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. Don't let those separatists, the PKK members, fight to bring us face to face. I hereby condemn such talks and such events from this place, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0150par0454	Mr. President, look, you can hear what I'm saying from the government's ministers. I'm afaki and I don't speak by heart. But we also know who did it, and who did it from time to time by the government; and we know who did it in Sakaryah; and we know who did it in Altınova. We don't talk like that.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0151par0455	Are you a coalition partner?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0150par0456	So I'm not insulting anyone. I'm a politician, making a statement. The one with the wound is the one with the wound, which means they've got the scars. Otherwise, I've made a statement, and I haven't insulted anyone.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0152par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0153par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0154par0459	Mr. President, of course, I refer to lawmakers' conscience, then the conscience of the Turkish nation, as well as the AKP and the BDP, as well as those who slandered the nationalist Movement Party and the territorial movement. Here, see the partnership.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0155par0460	Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0156par0461	We don't need a partnership, brother, we don't.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0154par0462	Ya! Ya!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0156par0463	AK PARTY is strong, doesn't need a partner. Go look for yourself, partner! Look for a partner! You don't see the power of AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0157par0464	What are you looking at?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0158par0465	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0157par0466	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0159par0467	Come in, come in...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0160par0468	You attack the MPP for him, you attack the nationalists for him! You all have attacks on the nationalist movement party, attacks on nationalists.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0161par0469	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0159par0471	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0160par0472	Your friend is the PKK!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0162par0474	Look at me, Çağatay, take your seat, Çağatay! Be smart! Be smart!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0163par0475	You don't talk!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0164par0476	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0165par0477	You always insult the MHP, the archnomeans. Ungrateful monsters!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0166par0478	Just so you know, you're gonna get the bat first! Asshole!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0167par0479	Don't shout!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0165par0480	What did the MHP do, what did the economists do, what did the National Movement Party do but love the country? That's cold-blooded.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0168par0481	Mr. Vural, please. Mr. Cherry, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0169par0485	Guys, I've been up here, so let's respect each other.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0170par0486	Çazatay, look at me, take care of yourself! I'll crush you, I swear! Know your place, nightingale!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0171par0487	Watch your mouth!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0169par0488	Now, dear friends, we see in Parliament what the government's policies have done to Turkey, how Turkey has weakened the bonds of brotherhood. This is where the government's politics bring Turkey to Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0170par0489	This is the MHP, not the Prime Minister's press office. You'll be careful!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0169par0490	Now, dear friends, no one in the Republican People's Party or Turkey wants a single mother to cry. And we also told you that we've been opening up loans for a period of time to support this process, out in the open. But unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister came out here the next day -- you don't speak peace, you speak other languages. For those of you who say, "Who are you to give me credit?" Dear friends, as we speak of these things at this hour, a editor-in-chief who writes to his newspaper has been removed from office or removed from office. According to media reports in the morning, two journalists have been instructed by the Prime Minister to dismiss them. So this is what you call the peace process, the human process? Look, if there's a problem in Turkey today -- this problem is the most important problem -- it's that the Justice and Development Party has weakened the brotherhood by its politics so far. This will hang on your neck as a plague, like a rattle. This is what you've done to this country. You woke up in the morning, woke up in the evening, from the race, from Etnisity, from the community in the afternoon, at night, playing with Turkey, letting loose the screws, and this Turkish nation will pay the price for this politics. I pay my respects, my friends.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0172par0498	The final word against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is Mr. Süleyman Nevzat. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0173par0501	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The group proposal brought by the AKP (AKP) has changed the general council's working hours and parliament's agenda. What he's always done is, of course, if he can, he'll take words out of the dictionaries, such as "compromise," and he won't put the opposition in Parliament, he won't take any notice of the opposition, he'll change the agenda according to your head, and you'll try to catch the opposition off guard by playing with the hours of your work. This has been the AKP's position on the Council for years. If you're not going to pay attention, why are you calling a meeting? You'll be able to do your name, not to mention it, but to do it. Dear lawmakers, the country's agenda for dealing with terrorism is so heavy, the people who love this country are so desperate, what would happen if you did work hours like this? Fourteen years ago, the baby killer who was delivered to the minority government of Mr. Ecevit, who was almost packed up from the snotty Kenya, who was in charge of the business, cried out, "Do whatever you want, just don't do anything to me." He was begging me not to do anything. Now he's negotiating the sovereignty rights of our country against the government, and the husband's talking: we offered power to the AKP on a golden platter. He's been in power for 12 years because of us. The Prime Minister who's trying to get word everywhere is silent. He's loaded like a kid who's been caught red-handed or something. The country's Prime Minister is silent in the face of insults to himself, his power, his nation. And the speakers tried to fulfill what the separatist had to say. Bekir Bozdağ says there is nothing signed by the state. But look at the time between the Oslo negotiations and the Imran transcripts. Didn't the AKP move its political demands to parliament in the form of bills and proposals? Omar Steel is trying to make things look innocent: ▪ Negotiations are not based on the quality of the state and the quality of the nation. Mr. Steel, you're lying to a minister on the subject of social peace and arms. It's not for me to say it's not proper to say, but it's so reckless, so reckless, call it what you will -- it's too much purity, or to put the nation in the right place. I ask: Why is the PKK giving up its terrorist activities for 30 years? Moreover, almost all of the talks in Imran are on the government, the nation and the Constitution. But we know that mentality. And when we said you were negotiating with terrorism, when Oslo came up with the negotiating protocols, they first caught fire from their mouths, denied it, denied it, insulted it, and then had to swallow everything they said. According to BDP President Erbil (BDP), we didn't leak it, but the reports and reports are very similar. We're investigating who leaked it. Let's be careful, my friends. It wasn't said. It wasn't said, who leaked it? Why did the newspaper write this? So you're not ashamed that 14 years ago, when you're making yesterday's life sentence, the killer who looked like a cat in front of a Turkish soldier, the prisoner of today's prison, the people who are going to be ashamed to announce it to the Turkish nation? In the public's eyes, the AKP has been exposed and caught red-handed in concealing and concealing facts. The AKP and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) have not all Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) people who have veiled the unity of their intentions, but there are also those who pray among them, and there are the good ones who pray. We're dealing with the good guys. That's why they've always led them astray. It's what they wanted to do with their secret agenda. What's not to be said in the process of negotiating with terrorists? The terms used by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are almost identical. You can also see this in the homework of the murderer of 35,000 people to lawmakers who have sworn in this parliament and through them to the AKP government. If these matters are not discussed in previous negotiations, will they, will they, will they, will they, will they, will they, will they set up sentences like these? Look, the baby killer's words are that there's going to be a regime change, a new republic to be built. Without the pronouncement of democratic autonomy, the European Local Autonomous Condition will be lifted by Turkey's withdrawal, it says. As in Spain, there will be guarantees of solidarity and culture among the peoples themselves. The law on collective rights and Kurdish reform will be passed. There will be a commission of men of truth and reason. The withdrawal will be with Parliament's approval, he says. Attention, please -- Meclis decides to fight or make peace with another country -- the bloody criminal sees the PKK in the same way as the Turkish Armed Forces, and says: "The withdrawal will be by Parliament order." On the eve of AKP's fourth judicial package, all this talks almost as if PKK had been committed. And then he says: "We support the presidency of Tayip Bey." Dear lawmakers, while the AKP-PKK negotiations continue, some tasked writers' teams are writing articles that will not search for British aide Ali Kemal. They blame the Nationalist Movement Party, insult Turkish nationalists and take them under their feet. The AKP is pro-resolved in preventing terrorism, and the National Movement Party is repeating the same chorus as parrots, as if it were an obstacle to it. Honor, dignity, honor of a nation. Ten thousand times we repeat to them: What did the AKP want with the National Movement Party in the fight against terrorism, and what did its hand end up on its side? What has the National Movement Party ever wanted to help? If what you mean is a negotiation with terrorism, it can't be that thousands of martyrs and veterans don't have the authority to negotiate, or the privilege of us or anyone else. You donate water under the bridge? Did you ask his mother, his father, his wife, his son and sit at the bargaining table? Do you send your son to the army? How, then, do you expect the National Party to contribute to this disloyalty, this dishonor? If the whole world were to fall, we would never stop looking for the rights of our Iğdırlı, Antalya, Kayseri, Ispartalı, Mersinli, Yozgatian martyr. Don't think that the martyrs are dead, they are alive. Our great book, which says, "The martyrs belong with the prophets." As long as our beloved Prophet is our guide, we will not forget that contempt for the martyr is an insult to the prophets. This nation, who has been insulted, will surely answer for it, both in this world and at the end of the day. The co-chairs of evil projects disguised as Rahmani, their companions will make history, and our children will read it. If you ask us over and over again, the last word of the Nationalist Movement Party is this: even though they strike at our tongue, whether they are handcuffed or chained to our arm, we will call our foot a nation again, and we will fall on hard roads for the sake of Turkishism and nationalism, we will not serve anyone other than God, and we will face with our eyes like the crescent of darkness. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0174par0514	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I submit to a vote...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0175par0516	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0174par0517	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. There's enough to make a decision. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/191) Since my main Law Proposal is not discussed in the Commission in 45 days, I respectfully submit that it is necessary to take the matter directly into consideration under Article 37. 15/2/2012 The bidder, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0176par0530	Mr. President, I have been promised a direct agenda of our proposal for the law to increase agricultural support. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, with our proposal of law, we propose that agricultural benefits should be raised to 1.5 per cent, according to the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, according to 1 per cent of the national income. The 2013 budget envisions 8 billion 900m euros in support of agriculture. This is 49 per thousandths of national income, which is 0.5 per cent of national income. We aim to increase agricultural support from $8.9 billion to $23.5 billion in cash. Turkey's agriculture and our farmer's National Movement Party, which is out of the government's interest, are always at the top of the issues that are very important. We've never taken the problems of our farmers out of our minds and our agenda, and we're trying to carry out our activities in that framework. Precious lawmakers are Turkish farmers, the biggest victim of wrong policies in the past decade with the AKP. Agriculture is almost dying. The manufacturer is poor and in debt. In ten years, agricultural debt has increased from $530m to $30 billion. The debt has increased sixfold. The farmer has unpaid bills, executive notices in his house. The farmer is away from production every day. The population of Turkey is rapidly increasing, while the number of farmers producing is diminishing. In ten years, farmland has dropped from 24 million hectares to 20,500,000 hectares. The government, which claims to have increased national revenues by 3/10 per cent in ten years, has reduced the share of agriculture's national income from 10 per cent to 8 per cent. In 2008, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism announced a document under the title "Agricultural Vision" (2008-2012). At the top of this document was the Prime Minister's promise to build Turkey without improving Turkish agriculture. None of the goals in this document have been met, but they have delivered the first ones not included in the document to the Turkish nation. For the first time in its history, Turkey imports animal sacrifice. The agricultural country, Turkey, has become a country that imports hay, and the import of living animals and meat has started again in this period. For the first time, the Minister of Agriculture was awarded a knightly merit badge in agriculture by France. The farmland planted in Turkey is less than 14.5 per cent, while the African country is renting 5 million acres of agricultural land for ninety-nine years in Sudan. Instead of supporting the farmer in Turkey, the AKP is eager to bring production to Turkey with cheap entries, such as cheap gas and labour costs in Sudan. This would only hurt the Turkish farmer even more. Those who need to improve agriculture in Turkey work as if they were the Sudanese Minister of Agriculture. With this determination, his collection of merit badges from strangers will also increase. In Turkey, production costs must be reduced in order for the agricultural sector to survive. As basic input prices increase day by day, production costs of course cannot be expected to decline. But the government only sees what it has given with its right hand, and takes it back with its left hand. From 3.5 billion tonnes of diesel per year in agriculture, 9 billion Turkish liras are collected as KTV and VAT. The government withdraws its $8.9 billion support payments for 2013 from the gas that only the farmer uses. The farmer's support does not even fill the farmer's tooth. For example, the wheat producer spends 56 lira on diesel per decar, while only 4 Turkish liras are paid as diesel support. While the farmer can't get enough support, he's undermining increased input prices. In 2002, our farmer could buy 1 litre of diesel with 3.5 kilograms of wheat, while today he can only buy 1 liter of diesel with 6.5 kg of wheat.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0177par0539	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0176par0540	In 2002, 1 kilogram of raisins could receive 1 litre of diesel, while today it can only receive 1 litre of diesel for 2 kilograms or 1 kilo 900 grams. With these thoughts, I look forward to your support and respect for our proposal of the law.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0177par0543	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0178par0547	Mr. President, I have been promised the adoption of our law proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. It's a law proposal, a law proposal that involves a little more farming support, a little bit more fixing the farmer's situation. Of course, when it's called support, it comes to the farmer with direct support, like premiums for fatty seeds, like fertilizer-zoot supplements. We have an offer of law to further increase these supports. Let's see, we're about to get a vote, and we're going to see what his position is on the matter with the valued lawmakers. Of course, support is vital to the farmer's survival. Today, countries around the world support farmers. Why? Because the man who produces farmers, who can market what he produces, who feed his country with its produce, who feed its grain, its fruit, its vegetables, the people of his country. But by the time we get to today, the farmer's in a lot of trouble, a lot of misery. The price of diesel has increased 400 times since the day you arrived, my friends. Fertilizer prices have increased 400 percent since the day you arrived. Now it's not so easy for a farmer to produce, to farm, to farm under these conditions. Oh, we say -- you're all talking about the European Union, you're claiming that you're trying to get into the European Union -- let's give our farmer half of the support the countries in the European Union have given the farmer. I wish we could, but we don't; you're always talking about the European Union, the farmer in the European Union, competing with them. Today in Greece, before this crisis, the cotton support was 700-800 liras. I don't know exactly how much it is now, but in the United States, it's at least three times the support you've given our farmer. So right now, 420 liras on cotton-certified seeds, $350 on uncertified seeds, and at least 3 times that in the U.S., that's more than the support given to our farmer. Now, when we bring criticism to the Minister -- Mr. Secretary -- we give this much support, this much support -- here comes the farmer, as if he's done all his problems, but when you look at him, it's not like that. So the support you're giving me now is not even 1 percent of the fertilizer the farmer dumped on the acre, my friends. Not one tenth of the masoth the farmer burned, but the support you gave him, but you boast of it. You're committed to supporting one percent of the national income. Let's make it 1.5, make it 2. A farmer, a man who produces. He wants to make money out of it, but our farmer can't make money right now. The Minister says we've given so much credit from the Bank of Zaraat, so much credit. Why would someone with money go and get a loan from the Farm Bank? Why would a farmer with money go to the Seabank and get a loan from the Financial Bank? He's enjoying himself, getting a loan, borrowing money? But to plant his field, he mortgages these banks, he goes there, he gets a loan, he tries to plant his field, he tries to buy diesel, he tries to buy fertilizer. So our farmer's not doing so well. Look, there's one more thing. In particular, I would like to address our highly valued AKP MPs who are farming, or to our valued AKP MPs who live in the area of farmers: Now in Adana, early corn, the first crop of corn receives 1,400 kilograms, 1,500 kilograms of produce. Do you know what the TÜİK figures are now determined by the average in Adana? 896 kilograms. Man is afraid of God. So 896 kilograms... Why? We've given you support. You're saying that you've both reduced support to price, and you're thinking about the number that TÜİK has given you, and you're seeing a lot of the number that the farmer actually produced, and you're reducing it by reducing your support for the farmer. Come and give it up. Go to Çukurova, ask anyone, anyone with a conscience and a fear of God will tell you, 1,400 kilograms is the average of Çukurova, but the number of TÜİK is 896 kilograms. Is that a thing? Your support for wheat is five cents, your support for corn is four cents. Let's increase these... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...back up our farmer, support our farmer, look out for them, make them produce. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0179par0558	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. İzmir MP İncinur Denizli has been nominated for 1 membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which has been divorced in the Plan and Budget Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals or other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Mr. Nusret Bayraktar and Kars MP Mr. Yunus Kılıç and 16 MPs; Supporting Forest Villagers' Developments and Valued Places Outside the Forest Borders in the Name of the Treasury; and the Appropriations of the Lands of Agriculture Belonged to Treasures and the Order of the Law to Change the Forest Law and the Law of the Republican People's Party Group Group; We will continue to talk to Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the 28/02/2013 merger, negotiations were completed on the entire proposal. Now, I would like to submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The support of the standings of the Orman tribes and the resilience of the land that has been dug out of its name in order to ensure that the organization's interests be restored to the ground in order to ensure that its blood and its authority be restored. MADDE 1-19/4/2012: Supporting the Developments of Forest Villagers No. 6292 and Appreciating Places Outside the Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasures, and the 4th Amendment of the Law's 6th Amendment, with sentences added at the end of the fourth sentence, including the 4th sentence of the 8th joke, with a complete and perfect agricultural structures used on top of it (mania, greenhouse, network, pens, pens, etc.). 10 per cent of the dwellings used for permanent housing have been changed into 20 per cent for other places, ▪ in six equitable installments in three years, ten in five years and eight in equal installments in eight years. However, agricultural structures, used entirely and exclusively for agricultural purposes (many, greenhouse, pens and so on). the price of sale is calculated at more than 50 per cent of the price of the rail price for places that do not exist except for permanent housing, and, if sold like this is later used for different purposes, the difference will be taken from the financial account, based on the price of more than 70 per cent of the rail price as the sale date of the move. The first word for the groups on the matter is Mr. Kerim Özkan, Burdur MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0180par0591	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in Article 1. Meanwhile, I extend my heartfelt respect and love to our fellow farmers, who are eagerly awaiting the passing of this law on television. (x) 428 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 72nd Union's Charter, dated 28/02/2013. Today, many people from Antalya geography, Antalya, Gazipaşa, Serik, Manavgat, Alanya, Kumluca, Finike, Tetovo were in Ankara, about 56 buses. Why are they here? They've come for their bread. So 2/B, we've been talking 2/B since 2002.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0181par0595	Why did you stop them? They came to ask you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0180par0596	There's no such thing as obstruction. For years, the Justice and Development Party, however, thought that in 2002, 25 billion dollars, such as chopping onions into meat in a butcher's butcher, would make a profit from these farmers, the people who produced it, from their land 2/B, came up with a law proposal. But I would like to share with you what the Republican People's Party has said today, as well as today, what they have expressed in that 41 Lyric: the property problem of land 2/B will be solved, the land they use will be given to the forest village for free. We have said this, that property issues related to areas that have been converted into urban settlements or for tourism will quickly be used to create new forest areas. Where our forest peasant lives, his job will be vaccine and peace. Socioeconomic measures will be taken to prevent irregular use of the forest and all occupations. We said, "It will be avoided." But in 11 years, we were unable to convince the Justice and Development Party. He came to the commissions, he came to the groups; the effort we put into it didn't make the citizen happy. Citizen infinitively, Izmir de Manisa is blocking his way in an infinitive way, and Antalya is making an infinitive statement. Today, people who are supposed to be working in their greenhouse, collecting tomatoes, collecting peppers, collecting eggplants, have given up their jobs, waiting for something from the government, Turkey's Grand National Assembly. (CHEERING) The stone we threw wasn't worth the frog we startled, my friends. We're doing it wrong again today. What we're saying is, let's get these farmers to meet this land through real estate value. Put it on the ground, the rest is a game. We say we keep the land, we keep the production, we keep the livestock, but unfortunately, you keep messing around with the numbers. Look, we started at $25 billion, and we ended up down to $5 billion, and here we are. What would have happened if we had handled this as we said in 2002, if our citizens had met with that land? But I'm afraid you didn't take our words in a manner of speaking. These issues have been included in our election declarations, and so have my dear friends, and so have we. The year 2002 was also in the National Movement Party's programme, and it was in the Justice and Development Party's programme, and it was in the Republican People's Party's Programme: The problem is going to be solved. And in those days, when we say, "No, we'll use the money we're going to make in the economy," you said. No, these woods are what we all have in common. Let's use this money to re-forestation, to keep the forest areas alive. We said, but you refused. He's back from the Supreme Court. The law came, you said 70 percent of Rayic's value. Today, I listened to those screaming manufacturers out there, listening to those mothers, those aunts, those uncles. They say: 'You have two villages side by side.' 'You have a territorial integrity.' 'No, side by side, our fields together.' It's different from a congressman's or a privileged person's field... 60 lira an acre to a privileged person, a non-privileged farmer, 340 lira to the person who produces it. Not this one. And then, for show... he said here, my friends, that after all that talk, they increased the value of track value by 10 percent in those villages. No, my dear friends, we have to keep our citizens equal. The congressman's privilege, the officer's privilege, the clerk's privilege, the police have no privileges, the village has no privileges. All of our ancestors shot the same target in the National Liberation War for this country. We can't discriminate between these people, but in today's terms, this distinction has been made over the value, we say fix it, we warn government officials. Our people who worked in those real estate offices, national real estate, they were altruistic. Look, you haven't given them their sweats, either. They work overtime, you don't offer overtime, they scream like farmers. This matter needs to be resolved. We have our proposals, come, let's all evaluate our proposals, let's get these farmers to meet this land through real estate value, give it to the forest villagers for free. Forest villagers are anonymous heroes in those mountains, in those woods. We want to be satisfied in the land where we were born. My dear friends, look -- I worked so hard in that geography -- these people, thirty years and forty years ago, one shovel, two hearts, husband and wife, all they have is a gas stove. Then there was no Aygaz, Milangaz, ipragas, just a gas stove... a gas stove, a bed, a quilt, and a shovel down these areas. These areas were rocky, these areas weren't farmland, they set up their tent, they produced it in the process. What did he do in the process? He made his children read; it was not enough; he made his children officers, he made weddings, with this income, and with this income, he could not, but he could not raise the money to give to that land - he kept his life. This is so in Alanya, so is Manavgat, so is Burdur, so is that; so is İzmir; so is Mersin; so is this in Turkey's geography, unfortunately. These people, with their children, at their weddings, were left with their debts, and in the process, they were unable to make an increase here. They're screaming for him. We don't have it. They call it money. If it happened, we'd get it because the tomato we've been making in the most remote corners of the world hasn't cost money in years; we've used the world's most expensive diesel, we've used the world's most expensive medicine, we've used the most expensive seed, we've used the most expensive seed in the world, but those of us who've been living off of us have runts, they've had floors, they've become rich, but we're counting where we are. Our children are not privileged like your children, but they have studied and studied.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0182par0604	Tell me about the ship, the ship!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0180par0605	Some of you have seen it, and some of us have seen it. One of those who see the difficulties is your brother. It wasn't easy to come here, so we've had a lot of trouble getting here, so we'll call it God's word. These citizens say the same thing, he wrote on the door, on the door of the greenhouse. He wrote on the door of the greenhouse: "God, I have suffered so much until I set this up, protect it with your words. " What does that mean? His greenhouse takes care of his bread and bread. So you have to change your words about this 2/B, you have to accept our motions. You have to stop chopping onions into the meat in the butcher's meat that makes your appetite swell. If we give it up, if we make thousands of people happy today, these people, who have become an eyehouse in Istanbul, are waiting for that law to come out. We have millions in Beskoz, in Sultanbeyli, in Istanbul, waiting for this law to come out. We demand that this House act according to their wishes. Again, we have citizens with deeds. He's been court-martialed by the forest, he's got the deed, he's got the property out of his hands, he's got it in the woods, but those people are still building a team there, and they're building something. Their rights must be protected, and they also cry out, and they are left behind by my ancestor. Ten acres, 15 acres, 20 acres, 60 acres, 40 acres. This place is my ancestor's, my grandparents', we've been farming here for years, but it's been taken away from us, into the woods, we don't know. We want an arrangement on this matter, and these places are ours, and our honor is this land. They cry out for it. And you have to accept what they say, what they want. Before, look, my dear friends, you've had a share in all this. In my Burdur, we've valued 3,000 liras per square meter in Elsazi. The citizen is now buying and selling them for $500. For 500 liras, you've been appraised of 3,000 liras. As you buy and sell for 500 liras, you estimate 3,000 liras, and you say that's beauty. This is not beauty, my friends. We cry out, "Come, let us make an assessment of them over the property value. Again, in the same way, the deadline ended on April 26th, and then there's an extension demand. And we need to do this extension today, here, as this House. We ask the minister: "Mr. Minister, will there be an extension on this matter?" There is no answer, but tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands await the answer. I'd also like to ask the Minister to respond to the identification of these values. My dear friends, our citizens are troubled, there's a lot of trouble. There's trouble in pensioners, there's trouble in the workers, there's trouble in the students, there's trouble in the drivers, there's trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble... and the solution to this problem is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll settle this problem today with your votes, hopefully. With these feelings, I give you all respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0183par0613	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Congressman Sumer Oral. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0184par0617	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 1st amendment of Law Proposal 428 on behalf of the National Movement Party, and I salute you all. The law proposal, which we're discussing today, is a new amendment to the law, which was called 2/B, which we agreed to here on April 19, 2012, about nine months ago. So, a second legal change in a not-long period of nine months. On January 30, 2013, about 33 days ago, another change was made in the same subject and the same law regarding the price of Rayic. As a result, the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey faces a second amendment in the same issue as 28 days apart in nine months. It's hard to understand why the change in right and right today wasn't thought of in the arrangement that we passed about the same matter about a month ago. It's not a common practice in our Parliamentary tradition to change the same law and the same subject so briefly, especially not in the Ministry of Finance exercise. In addition, a month apart, both changes would have to be included in the main law on April 19, 2012, about 2/B. Such delays, of course, may or may not have caused some of our citizens to suffer economic harm, or even be. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers have a long history of the 2/B event, as some of our dear fellow lawmakers have mentioned earlier. In fact, the issue was discussed in a broad way in 2001 and 2002, and was prepared, but the Constitution had not been presented to parliament in the face of the existing provisions. As you may recall, on June 29, 2001, Law 4706 was issued to ensure speed and ease the sale of treasure deposits. Instalment sales, VAT exemptions, were more comfortable and affordable. Dear President, members of lawmakers, what we call 2/B, the assets of the treasury; one, those who remain in construction and/or zoning plans; two, under two groups, except for the development plans, would have to be discussed and determined in accordance with the terms of the sale. Despite warnings, there is no distinction between the movers that remain in the zoning plan and the immovables that remain in the development plan. However, some arrangements should be made to ensure that the agricultural areas are sold to farmers under better conditions, with areas 2/B being divided. This distinction has always been made in the laws previously issued for the sale of treasury land. It's really hard to understand why there were no special conditions for the farmland. As if that wasn't enough, Law 6292 changed the law on January 30, 2013, and Law 6412, and again the basis of the purchase of 50 per cent of the rail price for up to 400 square metres of the estate to be sold without the agricultural-structured area division. Now, the error has been realized, and the law is being offered to sell the agricultural fields over half the price, but unfortunately it's too late. Many farmers, who realized that they could not buy their land by paying 70 per cent of the value, had to hand over their land by notars at almost no cost. Now the right to buy for some of these fields of 2/B has been passed on to some people called successors in legal terms. Mr. President, what's really expected is that the solution to problem 2/B, which has been on the public agenda for a long time, is this: First: to provide for the forest peasant who struggles with his family in a thousand deprivations, to provide him with better conditions. Second: to hand over to him the assets he's lived on for years, worked on, earned a living under the proper conditions. That was the basic goal. So, when we look at the application of the law for this purpose today, do we look at the efforts that have been made, and do we see a parallel course to that purpose? Unfortunately, there's no way to answer that. I'd like to bring up another problem in the sale of agricultural fields. Remember, when the sale of 2/B land came on the agenda, the government moved some laws of amendments to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2009 to prepare for sales and facilitate sales, and those bills became law. One of them is the Kadastro of the lands outside the Forests in the name of Hazine, which is added to the Kadastro Law. In the fifth article of this article, the cadastro or registration process will be carried out without constraints in Article 3194 and Article 5403 of Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403. With this change, the government wanted to facilitate sales by removing restrictions from the Law on Land Protection and Land Use in the sale of 2/B properties. However, the fifth joke of Article 4 was cancelled by the Constitutional Court. It's not appropriate for agricultural land to fall apart and fall into pieces, but the problem that arises has to be solved. The 2/B land under 20,000 square meters will be impossible to sell to farmers unless it's solved. In this regard, we will need to find and improve a solution that will be in line with the Constitution. It is important to point out that the main rights holders of a large portion of the 2/B farmland are not alive today. These places will be bought by the heirs of those who are not alive. Most of the 2/B farmland will not be sold unless this problem is resolved. It's not possible to solve this problem by being updated. If the problem isn't solved, the courts will have to deal with thousands of cases. As it is known, there was no canceling when the upgrades were being conducted, so the stock has been identified. According to these studies, when the deed is requested, it cannot be registered, and if it is done, it is against the law. If the Supreme Court had issued the verdict after the registration, it wouldn't have been a problem, but it will be now. We don't know what percentage of the 2/B farmlands are scheduled to be sold, over 20 acres per cent, less than 20 acres, but the estimate is that there's more land than 20 acres. It seems that we are facing serious problems in this law enforcement. Mr. President, thank you, and respect my dear friends.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0185par0632	Thank you, Mr. Oral. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Husamettin Zenderlioğlu.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0186par0635	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding Article 428 of the First Amendment, and I hereby salute you all with respect and love. Also, I celebrate the 8th March World Laboring Women's Day. It appears here that the AKP is trying to re-enact the law because it cannot find what it hopes for from the laws passed. As it is known, Law No. 6292, known publicly as Law 2/B, was adopted in Parliament on April 19, 2012. It turns out that even though the new law hasn't been passed for a month, it's not enough. We don't think a new one can answer society's demands. Now, we don't understand why this law is being passed piece by piece. There's no doubt there's a runt involved. Or should we consider a AKP government classic? What does it mean to bring such an unjust, unlawful, and unworthy law back to Parliament? For some reason, it's not the law that I want, friends, as soon as the law of Parliament, law 2/B, comes into effect, as soon as someone shouts out from the dark. Take this away and change it, or I'll blow the place up. You see, one morning again, if it's not in someone's best interest, he'll come to the House with a request to change another clause. Unfortunately, such fundamental laws come back to life without measure, without reaping, without taking into account the cost of their profits. That's no way to make a law. It's unethical to create millionaires in one day to open the door to someone who trusts the majority, and we don't ethically approve. Of course, this law is not a scripture, it may need to be changed. It is of course important for society to be changed, no one opposes it, no one opposes it, but it seems that that's not the case with us. Why are we saying this? Listen to the voice of the opposition, to take into account his words, his thoughts. We've made motions in the General Assembly over and over that matter that has changed. Again, the AKP's government has no doubt rejected our motions by relying on its majority. And that's why we're arguing. In fact, the draft laws by the new AKP government have not been discussed with enough public opinion, civil society organisations, the expert on the issue. The proposal for the law that we are now discussing is again the product of such antidemocratic mentality. Mr. President, the precious MPs are the lungs of a country, the common habitat of all living things, the common wealth and treasure of people. Forests are essential to human life. The protection of forests, the development, is the basic duty of mankind. We shouldn't think of forests as livelihoods. The forests are our future. No one dares destroy our future. In fact, the forests were protected by a new law adopted in 1937 after the establishment of the republic. With the deed Kadastro Law, the boundaries of the forest areas have also been tried. 80 per cent of Turkey's territory was covered in forest, unfortunately it is now down to 20 per cent. Some so-called wily men have been cut down to specialize in forest quality, causing the forest to disappear. With what deception, lies, there are those who calculate how to plunder forest products and land. They ignore the part of the forest about human health, ecological values. Although the law has tried to protect the forest area, lightning struck by natural disasters, the peasant's desire to open a field, and the purpose of setting forest fires have narrowed the forest areas. There was no wooding in the burning forest areas because it was deliberately burned. Unfortunately, in military operations, thousands of hectares of forests have been deliberately burned in our region, disrupting the ecological balance. For example, in the Bitlis region, particularly in the Sheikh Friday forests, Hecinan forests, Kerebo, Hilolin, Samo, Tilmi, Dölek forests in Mutki district, a large portion were burned to the heart of nature as a result of being described as a conflict zone. Lakebaş district of Norşin is also covered by 2/B in the District of Norşin. Once the villagers have taken this land, they are no longer able to take it for the second time. The villagers aren't doing well anyway. And if they try to buy their own land again, they can come to an economic collapse point. The rest of the forest was looted by forest-cut contractors. There's no conscious forest cut. Whoever ripped it off is a profit, attacking the woods with their understanding. Most of these transactions have been done through the official body of the state, forest businesses. Don't you think it makes sense that forest managers don't allow poor people to collect dry wood, while the contractor, on the other hand, is silent enough to destroy the forest on legal authority? Mr. President, valued lawmakers are therefore being pursued by forest, mera and so on, the land of the state, the rivers, the coastline, their natural assets, local and foreign capital. The sale and rental of these areas is available to specific environments. Because of these practices, historical and cultural areas are especially victims of these dirty policies. In particular, thousands of years of history and cultural heritage have been forced to remain underwater. The Ilisu Dam destroys historical heritage such as Hasankeyf. The release of Article 2/B based on this is the division and division of areas that are efficient, such as Istanbul, Antalya, Mughla, Izmir. The status of the sultanate is obvious, isn't it? But what good is it to be used as farmland by destroying trees that have a living cover of forests? Not everything is for money and shouldn't be. Losing forest quality in terms of science and science is never a spontaneous process. It's the work of those who put someone's interests above the interests of society. It's a bit naive to say that land 2/B has become a forest field by itself. You have to turn burned, destroyed, destroyed places back into forest areas, but unfortunately they're not being done. We deceive ourselves with such policies for reasons that are not in accordance with science and human law. In this process, the AKP government has brought up legal changes to ensure the division of the forests with the example of the villager living in the forest as a solution to the land problem of the territorial peasant. You know as well as I do that these misleading policies aren't the way a forest peasant can satisfy poverty. We know that some environments inflate their pockets with Talan policy. It's as clear and as clear as the day when land 2/B victimized the inhabitants of the forest villages, when the peasant linked the land problem to the forest area. Let's not fool each other. What circles are they that are anxious to sell these lands? Look, look, you'll see that those who have off-the-book money are domestic and foreign capitals. Since land management and use are not planned in this country, settlements, agriculture, industry and mera areas are not clear. Those who damage the forests, selling these lands, making distinctions among the citizens, they cause injustice. With this initiative, with that understanding, you will never bring justice to the citizens. This method does not solve the problems of the forest peasant. The law does not apply to the spirit of justice; it will serve in the interests of those who build villas, resorts, and factories in the forest. This is injustice and injustice. While the AKP is selling its territory to private companies, it is of course impossible for the forest peasant to buy the land at this price. In the new bill, it is of no use to draw the cost from 70 per cent to 50 per cent. So the peasant will be victimized again, and this peasant will be left unemployed again. That's why we want to say that we demand that the forest villagers be given the land free of charge. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0187par0658	On behalf of individuals, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0188par0661	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the 1st amendment of the 2/B bill. On this occasion, I salute you all. In addition to the law, which is known as 2/B, there is a sale of treasured land. Of course, when the commission was being discussed -- our valued Commissioner is here, and he knows very well himself -- I specifically told the commission that the price would be 70 per cent too high, that it should be 50 per cent. It also passed 50% of the commission, but was later moved to 70 per cent at the General Assembly, under the instructions of the Finance Ministry and the Prime Minister. But now, when there are reactions, it's a good thing -- the farmer's benefit -- but it's not enough -- to retreat back to 50 percent when there's trouble in the citizen. Now, once in the 2/B law, there are areas in Istanbul, and there are fields in Bodrum, and there are fields in Adana where the farmer has farmed. Now, you have to distinguish them from each other. Of course, there is no such thing as the price of the land in Istanbul, Istanbul, and the cost of paying for it is equal to the farmer's ability to pay for it. The people who are going to buy it, of course, have a lot more money than the farmer, which is what he wants to invest in. Now, with that land over there, you put the farmer's land in the same category, you make the same arrangement, you make the mistake here. For one thing, we need to distinguish between the resorts in Bodrum, the plots in the center of Istanbul, and the fields in which the farmer operates. If we really want the peasant to have these lands, the farmer to have them, we need to make it easy. How are we supposed to make it easy? Now, for once, there's no telling how much the price is going to be. It's not clear whose conscience we're going to put the price on, whose mercy we're going to leave it at. We need to set up an important commission here. In this commission, the farmer has to have absolutes, there has to be representative of the agricultural chamber, there has to be authorities of the municipalities; there's got to be officials of the town's office, the county's agriculture department, and there's got to be people who have a say in it. If the price is determined, a fair and beautiful price is set. A price would be set in the farmer's favor. But if you say, "It will only be for the ministry's authorities to determine it." If you say, "There may be negative things here." Then the peasants and farmers can't buy these fields. So, just a week after you passed this law, a week after you passed the law on selling property to strangers -- someone else gets the land that the peasant, the farmer, can't buy. That wouldn't be very nice, guys. It wouldn't be right. I mean, we want people who have planted this field for years, who have inherited it from him, from his father, his grandfather, and from him, who have been working for years to come to these fields. We're making an effort for him. That's our point of view here. Now, here's 50 percent of the Rayic price, six years, 12 installments for the treasury, if it's not within the city's mujavir area, six years, 12 installments. It's not enough for me. Both the number of years and the number of installments must be extended. Now, there's no way a poor peasant with 30 acres, 40 acres, 50 acres can buy this field under these conditions. If that peasant doesn't get that field, the moneyholders, the landlords will go buy it, and then it'll get rough, my friends. I mean, that's not gonna do any good. It's not a very good thing for our country or for the people who live there. In order for us, the peasant and the farmer to buy these fields, we need to make a minimum arrangement here. Come on, let's get it up to ten years, raise the installments to twenty. Come, let the peasant take it, let the farmer take it, my friends. Why are we afraid of that? I mean, these people have owned these fields for years, planted them, paid their wages to the government, paid them well. Why are we afraid of that? Let's make this even higher. Okay, according to the past, it's a good arrangement, but it's not enough. We've got to make it bigger, we've got to make it bigger, or in any case -- you'll see -- our farmers won't be able to buy these fields. But first class in Bodrum, sir, whatever land you're selling at the resort, brother, it's none of my business. Sell the land in the heart of Istanbul at any price, which is of no interest to me. The part that interests me, the farmer can have it, the peasant can have it. The thorns, the thorns, the people who have owned this field for years, should take these fields. The farmer's situation is obvious -- diesel prices, fertilizer prices -- is not making money from the plant. So I'm hoping to make a better arrangement, and I'm giving you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0189par0670	On behalf of the individuals, the final word is Mr. Hüseyin Samani of Antalya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0190par0673	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my person regarding the 1st Amendment. I salute you all. As stated in this article, today, we're doing a separate discount for those who are farming here, who are greenhouse in their territory, who have set up their land for different purposes. So they pay 50 per cent of the price, they deposit 10 per cent in advance, and they pay in five years within the municipality limits, and six years outside the municipality. Today, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are making such a improvement towards our farming farmers. That, of course, is a matter of joy. And all the friends who came up here said it was useful, but I'm here to inform the High Council that some of my friends have taken my name or mentioned my village. Earlier today, our Antalya MP, Mr. Gürkut Acar, asks what the price of the rail price is in the village of Yurpınar, where I live, and says: "What is the square meter price of the rail price at Yurpınar, and what is the square meter of the neighbouring villages at the bottom of it?" he asks, adding, "Is there a political impact here?" And the answer to that -- the answer to the man Gürkut Bey -- is that there is a lack of coordination among themselves that comes from Mr. President Kilicdaroglu at the group meeting. My name is mentioned in a national newspaper, and it counts the villages at the bottom of my village: the price of thelayli village is this, a village of the MP -- if he looked at my village, not my village -- the price of Murtuna Rayic is this, the price of another village is Leaded, that is the price of Rayic, and the price of the rails are low here, he says. Here, actually Mr. Kilicdaroglu is responding to Gürkut Bey. My village, the village in the middle of the three villages that Kilicdaroglu has counted, is ten lira higher than these. What just happened? I thought you said the price was lower in my village. Now, it wouldn't be appropriate to answer to a general president here, but I think I've had to answer to a general president because of misinformation and direction, and this is the president-in-chief accountant. A person who is an accountant is a person who has access to accurate information. If such information has been forwarded to you, you can open it up to bookkeeping and ask, "Is this information true?," you ask, "What village is this MP from?" You ask about the price of the villages next door, and when you ask, you see that my village costs more than the villages at the bottom. Unfortunately, while we are here today to discuss this discount to the villagers in the 2/B Act, we are forced to respond because our friends have narrowed it down in the sense of community politics. I understand from here: If we were Republican People's Party friends, we would first be interested in the prices of our own village; we wouldn't be completely interested in Antalya, we wouldn't be completely interested in Turkey. They mean to say that this is the mentality of all the friends who express it here. Well, they could have territory, too. What if the price in their district, the Republican People's Party MP, is lower in his area than here, and then he's going to have an impact? Is there such an irrationality? Can a congressman give such unreasonable reasons? Oh, sir, they're just asking, they're talking about two parcels, one less than the other. You ask the general manager who sits in these commissions, if there's a technicality, if there's a problem... we've asked him how many issues there are so far, you can ask him. If there's a mistake, we think it'll fix it. He'll send in the necessary team, get his information. So these friends of ours know very well that with the influence of any member of parliament, there will be no possible event. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we are actually discussing a very important matter here today. So that's what we wanted from the villages, the demand that the price be reduced to 50 percent. That's what the High Council provides today. I want to thank everyone who's passed the job. Again, I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit02spe0191par0682	Thank you. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0191par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 428. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, we're going to do a QA on the first part of the proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0006	Mr. President, before that, Hüseyin Samani picked on me by naming me in his speech here.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0193par0007	He was in that hearing.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0194par0008	The hearing is over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0009	But you closed the session, so I...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0010	You weren't there, so...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0011	I was here, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0012	I mean, you didn't object.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0013	But you didn't give it a chance, so you shut it down.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0014	So it's my fault if someone gets hit on the head in this House! I'm sorry. I mean, I didn't see it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0015	It really did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0016	Then I didn't see it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0017	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0018	So there's talks now, you take promises there, you do things, but I'm afraid we can't do it again because of the recess, according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0019	It's not the same thing.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0196par0020	Okay, don't insist, let go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0021	What can I do now?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0192par0022	You can give me a say in this bullying.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0195par0023	Anyway... Now let's do the QA. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0197par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, last week the Minister of Labor was sitting, last February 26th? I said, "Son, we won't extend it again." He said. He stated that nearly 120,000 of our citizens did not apply, and their rights died. If these citizens' rights are dead, isn't it a shame for our citizens? I mean, isn't that so seriously unfair? And my second question, Mr. Secretary, is that now, in Antalya, the state is going public, and it's taking its transformation from the citizens at 6,000 liras, but now we've put a price on 2/B/B, in the same place, next door, at 6,000 liras, next to where the government has nationalized it at 2/B, so it's not fair? How do you judge that? When the government buys it, when it's publicized, it buys it for 6,000 liras, sells it to a citizen for 60,000 liras, $70,000, so isn't that a contradiction? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0198par0030	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0199par0031	Minister, my question isn't to your witness, but I'd like to point out that in this country, an MP wants to travel with his son and his daughter, but whatever the wisdom, the German consul general's office doesn't give his son and daughter visas, even though he writes. To hell with this kind of European Union! That kind of visa sucks! If he's not giving a visa to the son and daughter of a member of this country to go together, I'm protesting it in this House. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0198par0033	Mr. Acar, I'll give you two minutes now.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0200par0034	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0198par0035	And I kept your promise.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0200par0036	Mr. Hussein Samani teased me by giving me my name. Last week, Mr. President Rayic made a statement about the costs. So I've made a motion to investigate Rayic costs, 2/B, and in this research proposal, I've asked whether there's any difference between villages, whether there's any specific information here, and I've requested that both of these be investigated, and in both of these, both of which, in my president-General's statement and in my motion, there's no name on any research proposal. Mr. Samani was taken from here so much that he picked on me by saying my name. I want to ask you here. The information that came to us came from the head office and from the chiefs in that area, and that's very accurate information, but I'd like to ask you: why don't you explain the cost? The villagers came from there today, 2,000 villagers were in Ankara today. They came in 56 buses, and 2,000 villagers came in complaining about the injustices of the cost. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Samani here: Why aren't these ramifications explained? You have the bookkeeping information. Come on, you hide from the people, you hide from the people, you hide from the people, you hide from the people, why do you hide them? Why don't you explain the rates? Here, these 2,000 people were cut off today, they couldn't make it to the House, but only we were able to get 250 of them into the group meeting, and they gave Mr. Samani the answer very loudly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0201par0039	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0202par0040	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you know, the name of this law is the support of forest villagers, but there's nothing in the law that has anything to do with the support of forest villagers in the work. How do you take it, how do you think? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0203par0043	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0204par0044	Thank you very much. The number of applicants today is 511,290, according to our MP Seyfettin Yilmaz Bey. As of the date the law was published, 450,000 people were entitled, 94 percent of them applied. The number of 110,000 people who have not been able to evaluate the application is not true, but there is a 6 per cent difference.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0205par0046	Mr. Faruk gave it to me last week, three days ago, Mr. Faruk gave it to me. That's where the mistake was. That's when I asked the same question.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0204par0047	Now, some of what happens after the law has its time, and so on. Their application...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0205par0048	So there's nothing wrong with mine, according to the Minister's statement. I asked the same question last week.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0204par0049	Okay, thank you, thank you, sir. And now, of course, that's the name of this law, but what's the real purpose here in the law, in our purposes, in our merits, in our materials? Both between the law and the two things we've brought in today, essentially, it's about owning land users who have lost the quality of the forest. It has been arranged in this direction, and how do we get this to our citizens in the cheapest way, in the most appropriate way? It is purposed, purposed. In this regard, loans to forest villagers have also been offered as information to lawmakers. We're always supporting the jungle villagers. And after that, we're going to try to bring a new set of regulations, hopefully, from the ideas that our lawmakers have expressed here, by taking power, on the throne of our Ministry of Forest and Water, to support the forest villagers. Hopefully, we'll do that with the support of all four of our groups here. We've made arrangements before, they've come back from the Constitutional Court, they've been cancelled by the Constitutional Court, but we'll all try to make new arrangements in accordance with the Constitutional Court. I'll buy it. Again, I'd like to answer the question asked by Mr. Acar about 2,000 villagers from Antalya with 56 vehicles. In the 21st province, the price of the rails has been announced. Of course, they're still being explained. If you go to the website, you can find out from the Treasury Department. In a controlled manner, in the next week, in ten days, we will complete all of this. Of course, we've been going over it a lot, doing it so there's no mistake. And on the subject of Rayic prices, highly valued lawmakers -- to put it bluntly -- in some places today -- the cost of real estate is below tax values. These are much more accurate, much more in line with market conditions, and the prices we call "the price" are between 40 percent and 60 percent of the purchases. Today we took the average of our friends from the Ministry of Finance, in different places, so the Antalya team went to Istanbul, the Istanbul team went to Burma, we did this in a transformational fashion, we took the average of these, we got the financial statements, we got the market values. We've checked transactions on property owners, real estate agents, purchases, years of sale, deeds on property, all of which we've done by checking all of the values on the deed, and I'm not selling my property today for $70 per square meter. So we've shown the rail price of where he calls it, so you can see it very clearly if you're able to analyze it. And, now, this is what we're doing, and this is what we're doing right now, based on the warnings of all lawmakers, 550 of our fellow lawmakers here. What are we doing now? We were taking 70 percent of the Rayic price that we had already declared. Now we're saying that we're taking 50 percent of this in agriculture outside of the mujavir area, and we're making a deadline. If it's up front, we get a 10% discount, and I mean, a place with a $100 price comes to 40 lira, and this 100 lira price is between 40 per cent and 60 per cent of the actual cost of the actual track price, and the place in the market is between 40 per cent and 60 per cent. We've done this in a lot of places. So this is the last place we've come to in this regard, hopefully, in the interests of our citizens. This is a total of 610,000 parcels in all Turkey. 610,000 parcels are of interest to 724 thousand citizens, but I've just expressed the number of people who benefit under the law, these are 511,290 people. There's an application in Istanbul that reaches 100 per cent, and there are applications going on on the other side, and we're going to complete the appeals that are missing from the throne of legal regulations, and there's five years and six years of deadlines in 10 equal installments and 12 equal instalments, and there's no interest, there's no promise, there's no inflation difference, there's no inflation difference, they're all in fixed installments. It's in the best interests of the citizen. If we'd done otherwise, maybe there'd have been a lot more criticism. Taking into account the warnings of all our fellow lawmakers, we have reached the final point by heeding the warnings and warnings of our friends in the opposition, all of our friends in power. Hopefully, their sales will start soon, and as they say, a very large number is not what our government, our government, is expecting from here. What we really expect is to be able to buy and sell for years, 20 years, 30 years by citizens, who can't be owned, who can't be bequeathed, who can't be inherited, who can't be bought, who can't be bought, who can't be bought, who can't even be bought, who have been built on top of them, who we don't take into account, we accept them as citizens, and we give them to the citizens.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0206par0061	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are three motions on the item, so I'll have it read and processed in order. It's the 1st amendment to the 428 rows of law. In the second sentence, which follows the declaration of the 8th joke, the 20 percent of the twenty percent of its declaration is fifty percent of its 50th and 1. In the end of the article, the deed was issued to the owners, but after the proceedings filed by the Director General of the Forest have been cancelled, the areas that have been removed in the name of the treasure are taken into the area of the forest, and the deed holders are given priority in the sale. Münir Kutluata Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Zühal Topcu Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Proposal 428 to row 1. We offer and propose that the article be changed in the following way. Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Iron Steel Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Article 1-19/4/2012, Supporting the Developments of Forest Villages of 6292 and Evaluating Places Outside Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, under Article 6 of the Law on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands. The following jokes have been added in the form of jokes. The person who has been fully and uniquely owned by the same person for at least five years is considered a person who already owns the land, except for agricultural structures (management, greenhouses, stables, coops and so on). If it is later understood that they were not used for this purpose, the difference will be collected from the rightful owner, based on the price of more than 70 per cent of the rail price as of the sale date of the move. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st Amendment of Law Proposal 428 be changed as follows. Ramazan Kerim Özkan Aytun Çıray Ercan Cengiz Musa Pine Aydın Ayan Ayyadın Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Article 1 - 6292's Article 6 of the Law has been changed as follows. The following provisions will be carried out directly to the rightful owners: A) The municipality and mujavir do not move in with a dwelling on its borders; the rights owner is sold on the basis of the property tax value, in case there is no full property registered to the city municipality and/or the property registered to the deed within the municipality limits. B) Industry, trade, etc. They do not move with buildings and facilities for workplace purposes; real estate tax value is sold to those operating in trades and agriculture and livestock, and to others is sold at the price of Rayic. C) Moving property rights holders are sold via property tax value, which is used for farming or farming outside the municipality and the mujavir area. D) The transports found within the forest village limits are handed over to forest villagers for free. According to the (c) and (d) benchmarks of this joke, rights owners are allowed to be sold via property tax value because it is used for agriculture or animalism, and are not allowed to be used for sale and slaughter for ten years, as well as for property tax purposes within the forest village limits and because it is used for the purpose of decentralisation or agriculture or animalry. The price calculated on the basis of property tax value can't be more than 50% of the cost. Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0207par0097	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0206par0098	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0208par0100	Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers have lifted Law 2924, which was adopted in April, and we're now talking about the support of the forest villagers, which we're talking about to be changed again, but they haven't put anything in its place. So the name of this law is the forest peasant, and there is no forest peasant in it, or in it, or in it, or anywhere. There are 7 million forest villagers in Turkey, and there is nothing that this offer brings to him. It's unfair to put our citizens in the same position, who are built on forest village 2/B or using other treasure fields, all of which are in the least fair terms to set up a law to buy land from the same values. You're doing this injustice indiscriminately. Dear lawmakers, our proposal is very clear, let's give our citizen with his building on it, and if he doesn't have another house on it, let's give the land of this house over the property tax value; in the same way, if there are citizens holding these land for investment, if there are -- 50 acres, 100 acres, 200 acres, 20 acres -- and let's get the price explained so I can buy this land. Now, how do you buy 100 acres of land by hand and explain the Bedeler and buy this land? How do you put the citizen and the other citizen together? Look, there are a lot of things that this offer, this law, doesn't solve. I've given you examples from Sultanbeyli district of Istanbul, and I'll give them to you again. Sultanbeyli district of Hasanpaşa district is an example. Sultanbeyli 2/B is a symbol of the county. There's some of the land that's built into 2/B, and then right next to it, on the other side of the street it's not covered by 2/B, but it's built in the same way, it's built in the same way, it's built in the same way, and if a law doesn't solve the problem on one side of the street and solve the problem on the other side of the street, then there's an injustice here, it's not possible to accept it. The district of Ümraniye is a town in which nearly 300,000 people live. There are neighborhoods where this offer doesn't solve the problem, there are Cemil Meric neighborhoods, there are Inkilaptowns, there are physicians, there's Dumlupınar, there's Top Tree District, there's Ihlamurkuyu neighborhood, there's disputed parcels here. We have tens of thousands of citizens who are still on trial between the Treasury and the individuals, so far have not even been able to make their application, and are waiting for a solution. I say this every time I speak, we make the motions, but Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Hamzacebi of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Hamzacebi, let's solve this. A will that says, "Let's solve this." These neighborhoods are waiting again. Again, look, there's a notice of a sentence for our citizens in the district of Hasanpaşa, Sultanbeyli. Look, I brought one as an example, a tip sent to a citizen named Muharrem Decent. There are dozens of notices like this, come, you've lost the case, pay these fines. There are similar practices in Pendik Kurnaköy, and there are in Beykoz. Look, in the village of Alibahadır of Beykoz, according to the forest maps, the forest is out of bounds, but according to court decrees, there are still forests, and there is a conflict between the two. As soon as this law is passed, our citizens, whose home is in the woods, are being sent an eviction notice. Dear MPs, come, don't insist. Today, those thousands of our citizens from Antalya are the spokesman for 7 million forest villagers. Come, listen to them. Let's fix that price. Again, an application shaped like 50 per cent of the cost is not an app that will appeal to all our citizens, which will allow them to buy this land. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And that's wrong, and I suggest we fix it. That's what we're proposing, and we're offering it to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0209par0113	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Proposal 428 to row 1. We offer and propose that the article be changed in the following way. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Article 1-19/4/2012, Supporting the Developments of Forest Villages of 6292 and Evaluating Places Outside Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, under Article 6 of the Law on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands. The following jokes have been added in the form of jokes. The person who has already worked the land for at least five years, all of which are used by the same person as a financial agricultural purpose, with no structures on it except for the dairy, the greenhouse, the pen, and so on, and so on. If it is later understood that they were not used for this purpose, the difference will be collected from the rightful owner, based on the price of more than 70 per cent of the price as of the sale date of the move. Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0210par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0209par0124	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0211par0125	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 2 of Law Proposal 428. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, the ruling party has ignored all of our statements, although we have repeatedly expressed that the law, previously discussed in the General Assembly and known as the Law 2/B, is not a proper regulation. Last time, if the ruling party had taken into account the opposition's opinions and proposals, and had included the proposals of these democratic mass organisations in the bill, we would not have had to talk about it here today. In almost every bill, the government ignores the opposition's opinions and proposals and ignores the public's voice. Our situation has nothing to do with a democratic parliamentary regime. Playing the game of democracy through the majority is seriously damaging to this country. However, opposition is important in democratic parliamentary regimes. The establishment of the balance of power-responsibility lies in a very important place in both the regime and the legislative process. Since Turkey is a country with many party systems, both language, religion, religion, and ethnic differences, and deep ideological divisions, it can only be achieved by pluralist rule structure. Political parties reflect on parliament the preferences of their own masses in parliament as institutions that have won millions of votes. Thus, every political party present is also representing the public, trying to reflect the opinion and proposals of the public in law enforcement activities, even if not in the running. The compromise here will mean social reconciliation, which will allow the country to be managed in a healthy way, but the view we face does not. The government, which is primarily responsible for executive activities, has taken over legislature activities altogether. The proposals offered by the opposition are not taken into account in the commissions, but the amendments made to the General Assembly are ignored by the majority of votes. In the last session, it would have been a virtue of democracy, not a weakness, to consider the warnings and suggestions of opposition MPs and group vice presidents. Yes, the ruling party is able to pass any law with the majority of votes it has here, and there's no problem here. However, it will not be respected by the public as well as by the principles of democracy and law to impose a law against the public. That is what is happening today. Dear lawmakers, one of our main paradigms as the Peace and Democracy Party is to observe the ecological balance in the world and in our country, to produce politics in this framework. These activities are at the beginning of our duties and responsibilities. While economic, social, cultural and technological advances are fast, the forest is a place where tree communities are located, but it has a dynamic, dynamic, complex structure that benefits society by producing a variety of products and services, particularly wood raw material. Dear lawmakers, in fact, it would be a conflict with the principle of equality of the Constitution, that forests and land that are excluded from this scope within 2/B have the same denominator price. Expansion of payment time will not solve the problem. The new arrangement will continue to victimize the forest peasant and his home on the land. I once again express that we are not present with this bill, which clearly contradicts the principle of the social state, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0212par0138	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Law proposal number 428 is currently in session. In the second sentence of the eightth joke, which was mentioned in the article, it was written in the second sentence of the twenty percent article, and at 50 percent of the time, it was written in the second sentence. In the end of the article, the deed was given to the owners of the deed, but after the proceedings filed by the General Assembly of the Forest were cancelled, the areas that were removed from the forest for the name of the treasure would be taken as a part of the area, and the deed holders would be considered a priority in the sale. Münir Kutluata (Sakaria) and his friends The President of the Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0213par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0212par0148	Mr. Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0214par0151	Mr. President, I have taken our word on a motion by the esteemed lawmakers on the removal of the victims of our citizens whose deeds have been cancelled by the Director General of the Forest. I salute you all. We propose to add the following sentence to the end of the 1st article of Law Proposal 428: "The areas whose property has been cancelled by the General Assembly of the Forest, although their owners have been given the deed, are considered as part of the area taken out of the forest for the sake of hazine, and the owners of the deed are considered a priority in the sale. Turkey is experiencing a 2/B process. For many years, the law was adopted in April 2012, but it did not end, it came before the Assembly several times. In fact, after April 2012, the application period in June 2012 was extended to three months after six months, and then a month after that. In January 2013, after this month's time, it was easy to pay 50 per cent for areas up to 400 square meters a month ago, but at the time, our offer to include forest villages was denied, and today the matter of including forest villages has also come to the front of the House. So we're really talking about a legal arrangement that's been talked about for a very long time, but it's been converted into a patched bundle very quickly. In all this time, the problem of citizens whose deeds have been cancelled has never entered into any part of this law, nor has the subject been taken into consideration. In that sense, today, we think this sacrifice should be resolved. In every attempt to regulate this issue and as we often express it, the constitutional barrier has been imposed on us, and the Constitution has been said to be a means to an end. However, even in the name of this law, we're talking about land that has been taken out of the forest for the treasure. That's basically what's going to happen here. In April 2012, when the law first came to parliament, the main reason is that it is said that the Law and the Extremism of this Law and the Law shall be resolved in accordance with the long legal process of the conflict for citizens facing the Treasury in front of the judicial authorities as a result of its deportation. That's what we mean, that's what we want. On the other hand, it's called the same reason as being a legal state, and we're bringing up the problem that the state's deeds have been cancelled. Dear lawmakers, this problem is happening all over Turkey, which is more common in the Black Sea region, and is common in Sakarya. I'd like to count some of our districts and some of the cities that have been experiencing this problem in terms of how far the work has landed and how much prevalence has been gained. Çamlıca village in Çandek district is a village in central and greener districts, Göksun village, Koşöngel village, Çübanyatak village, Dereköy villages. It's only in one county. Karasu district of Karadere districts, Karapelit district of Kocali district, Başmababaş, Bolazar villages. The village of Güzlek in Akyazı district is a small number of villages in Yeniköy, Şüyükiye, Taşburun, Reshadiye, Balllıkaya, Haydarlar, Behtepe, Güvençler, Hanyatak, Taşyatak villages and other counties. If this injustice cannot be solved here, when will it be resolved? We expect your support in that regard. The way these deeds are canceled is also extremely interesting. The land of citizens who have left no greens on their property has been declared a forest area with photographs taken from above of citizens who have never been cancelled, guarding the green. Now that it's unclaimed, it'll be destroyed and looted. In that respect, the consequences of protecting the green have been met by our citizens. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We ask that the High Assembly take over this injustice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0215par0161	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The price of sale in the first sentence of Article 12 of Article 2 - 6292 is 70 per cent of the price of the price of the price of the price of sale in the first sentence of Article 2 - 6292. The price of sale is 50 per cent of the rail price for those used as stated in the fourth sentence of Article 6 is the same sentence, which is the same sentence in order to be used in the form of agricultural land that is then used in the form of the same sentence, in the third verse, and in the area of the region of the mujaviral area. On Article 2 of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Antalya MP Osman Captain. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0216par0169	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, it's not going to be solved by reducing Rayic's price from 70 per cent to 50 per cent at 2/B, and extending payment time. We call it a yes, but it's not enough because if our people don't have money, they don't get $70. In the commission, 90 per cent of the Minister's people have applied, they will get it. It doesn't reflect the fact that he said, "You've already received 2/B applications before the price is announced, Mr. Secretary, and that's always happened in Antalya. No one knew what the Rayic price was." Now that you've come out, you say in the Commission that they've applied 90 percent, they'll get it. Mr. Secretary, 2/B is the bread of our peasant, let's not take the bread of our peasant. I have said that the earth is as important to the mountains as to the woodmakers, and to the Turks as to the horses, and to the women as well as to the weapons. I said, let's not puff the buttermilk, let's not piss him off. And again, I said, "The Ataturk didn't say for nothing." I said, "The country smokes in one tent in the Toros, and if it continues to smoke, the Republic of Turkey is secure." I said, "The state of Turkey is secure." Dear friends, where we come from now, from Antalya to Kash, from Gazipaşa to Gazipaşa, all 2/Bists, muhtars, Yöreks, Woodmakers, all standing, not only in Antalya, but in Turkey. The AKP building is being raided, the bookkeeping, the property managers are being raided, the roads are being cut off. Today, 46 buses from Antalya arrived at Ankara, the victim of 2/B. The Minister of the Forest, know your place. He shouts, and it's all over the place. Mr. Lawmakers, Mr. Forest Minister, who do we give the state's property to? If you don't like it, don't take it. It's so wrong to see all 7 million forest villagers who are 2/B invaders. The government wants to sell at the highest price. I wish you'd done that in privatisation. 2/B/B/s have given citizens a state in some places, and citizens have not invaded. Lords of the Book, you ministers, in the Finike of Antalya, in the Demre, in the Kasket, in the Küçük, in the Kıçük, in the Kığük, in the Kınük, in the Kığık, in the Gebiz, in the Bigyatak, without water, in the rocks, in the ramparts, in the wild olive groves, seventy years, seventy-five years ago, in the 1940s, in the 1940s. The state has given, the state has not invaded citizens, raise olives around here, and provide for your family as well as for your contribution to the national economy. The citizen picked out the stones with his hands and grew olives in this land. They couldn't deposit the tuition money in time, so some of them didn't get the deed to these olive groves. The records of these parcels are already available in the public archives. Now, at 2/B, the state is trying to sell these places at the cost of the track between $30,000 and $250,000. The state of those 1940s that you don't like, the government that gives a citizen land without money, and now we've come to the state that takes this land back from a citizen. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, where did we come from? Congressmans, now, what's the matter? The price is too high, it's unfair. Courts, executive managers, agricultural loan co-ops, tax offices have a value, but 2/B is worth 3-4 times more than that. For example, Antalya Millerdere, Elikesik, Konaklı, Pamukyeri, the village of Toslak, the inhabitants of the village are petitioning for a petition to the subsidiary of Alanya. Here's the petition. In response to this petition, the trustee says that in response to this petition, I read only Article 2 of the article: 113 is island 36. The parcel was sold for 71 lira per square meter on June 2010, at a tender from the treasury. The area 2/B next to this parcel is now -31. Lu parsel- now 2/B rail price is 325 liras. My dear friends, again, in Antalya Güldek, six months ago, the state is involved in building an industrial site, an acre of a thousand liras. Now, the cost is up to 4,000 liras, 5,000 liras, 78,000 liras. These places that the Treasury is auctioning off are worth 2/B times 4 or 5 times more. This is how it is, in Ulupınar, in Beycık, in Konyat, in Doyran, in the ages, in Çamköy, in the six, in the six, in Aksu, in our Antalya, in Gazipaşa. So, the government buys the citizen's land cheap, but if the government sells its own, it sells five-to-one. Where's the justice in that? Dear friends, let's not sell this place to the citizens who have owned their place since the Ottomans, who have inherited the land from their parents, who have cancelled the deed, who have reaped it for years. Sir, you've got a good price, a good price. You know, as the Prime Minister says, this is the price of failure. So, my friends, the high-value lawmakers, when the price is calculated, when the truth is calculated, the village is credited. Why is there a debtor? There's a positive value created by the person who builds gardens and builds gardens. For example, if a field is ten thousand liras, if it's 40 thousand liras, then it's the farmer who creates the value. This should be written in the farmer's house. And it is He who has made it a garden, and has protected it from its disaster and the flood, and has set a wall around it. If you don't see these people as your owners, at least consider them as your keepers and give these people some guard money. The peasant's product has been in place for ten years. When you say plastic, glass, fertilizer, seed, diesel, sir, they're up 200 percent, and the farmer's selling them. In Antalya, the Minister of the Forest says to a citizen of 2/B who says, "I have no money." Mr. Secretary, you haven't been able to beat the shit out of the PKK, and now you're kicking the ass of a forest peasant? You can afford a peasant? You're the Minister of the Forest, of course you'll listen to the peasant. You are listening to the Imralı, and listen to the peasant. The Minister of Finance says it's not about money, it's about solving the problem. Mr. Secretary, don't laugh, for God's sake, if it's not money, then give it to the peasant for free. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Prime Minister, the Minister of Forestry, the Minister of Urbanism, the Minister of Finance, excuse me, have mixed this up. Let the peasant of the forest be given deeds 2/B to the farmer; let him be given on the basis of the tax return of Mr. Akif Hamzacebi. Let him be given on the basis of the price of those who build villas in the Bosphorus. In April 2012, we passed law, 2/B. There are 15,000 hectares of deeds cancelled in our Antalya Kepez. Not one of their deeds has been returned. Why wasn't it returned? Eleven months, eleven months. Bureaucracy needs to be quick. Site sites aren't part of the law. Aunt Hasibe sent word from the con saying I don't have the power, but I can't do anything about it. We also need to consider the sites. Rayic costs must be redefined as justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If it's not going to be redacted, let's give up the track price situation outside of these 2/B cancellations, and let things go back to the way they were. Let's not upset our citizens, let's give 2/B the necessary warm attention to the victims. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0217par0187	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr Mehmet Erdogan. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0218par0191	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the National Party of Action on Article 2 of the Law Bill 428. I salute your high council. It's the third time we've talked today, even though it hasn't been a year since that law. This shows that the necessary preparations were not made by the government when this law was issued. Again, none of the contributions, the motions we made on the commissions were taken into consideration. We know everything best, we don't need anyone's contribution. It's the third time he's brought the law into the Parliament's agenda before the law has even begun. In fact, we've discussed all of the issues that we've discussed here today, both in commissions and in previous General Assembly talks, we've submitted motions on these issues, but they've all been rejected by the ruling group's votes. Of course, this is the third time we've seen each other today, but this isn't the third time, and maybe three or five more times we'll continue to discuss this law in the future. Because, even though the law has been passed for about a year, no one's problem has been solved, no one has ever learned the value of track costs, bought their place, bought their property, and been able to sleep comfortably until today. Now, of course, it's good for our country citizens to reduce it to 50 percent, instead of paying 70 per cent of the cost. However, since there is no price to pay, it is unclear whether the citizen will be able to profit from it, since the cost of the track is unknown. Because lowering prices in proportions and raising prices in quantity is already a government-approved situation. Now, since the cost has not been prepared before, of course, I am not going to be able to buy all of these places anyway. In the effort to sell some of the 2/B land, the opportunists are also trying to gather the land in the citizen's hands, to create new Rant fields, investment spaces for them. Last weekend, I was in my constituency, Mugla. In many places, in Fethiye, in Dalaman, in Centralca, in the village, selling part of the 2/B land, while the real estate agents are still running in between, trying to buy the rest. Another concern, of course, is that a letter will be delivered to the terms of the fair prices. It's also a matter of which village, which neighborhood, and which prices are not reported as transparent. That, of course, causes new confusion in people's minds. Because the citizen is concerned that these 2/B prices will be different from the two brothers' fields. E, whose man are you, who are you, who are you in favor of power, who are you in favor of opposition? There are serious questions in the mind of a citizen. Gene, some very interesting examples have arisen in our meeting with citizens from Antalya today about the determination of Rayic prices. In the same village, when the land was nationalized, the citizen was paid 6,000 liras as a price of property, but at the cost of Rayic in that village, between 25,000 and 75,000 liras were put in front of the citizens. I mean, if the rail price is between 25,000 and 75,000, why was the citizen paid 6,000 liras when there was publicisation in that village? Of course, that's an interesting example of how much the government is standing next to the peasant. Again, of course, the peasant is devastated today, the Turkish peasant is using the world's most expensive diesel. Today, the Turkish peasant uses the world's most expensive fertilizer. The Turkish peasant is feeding his cow the world's most expensive straw. Under the circumstances, the level of income, the percentage of profitability, makes it difficult for a citizen to find enough money to buy these places. Again, of course, after a change in the Czech Law, there are many citizens in our region who can't afford tomatoes, lemons, oranges. It's a real problem that these citizens, who can't afford their own product, are taking these places in the current market, in the present situation. Again, another problem in our region is the sale of the land of treasure used in agriculture by this law. Now, there are a number of restrictions on the sale of agricultural treasure fields: once, there are no treasure fields sold within five kilometers of the sea. Treasure fields 500 meters from lakes and rivers are not sold. Again, there are unsold provisions for agricultural land, which is used in agriculture, within municipal borders. Of course, the borders of the cities have been expanded especially to protect a certain population in the cities. So when there's no investment in the zoning plan around here, there's no school, there's no hospital or anything like that, the fact that these treasures are not going to be sold is causing people who have invested in it for years, who have invested in it agriculturally, garden-making. At the very least, it is also important to open the way for the sale of treasured land in agriculture, which is not included in the zoning plan, where in the short term there are currently concerned ministries, any public institution, such as school, hospital, etc., etc., which is not known to invest in common needs. Again, it is a serious problem that the prices of land 2/B in areas close to the coast are too high, especially from the information we have received from citizens from Antalya today. So here, you know, if these lands can't be bought by citizens -- especially about five kilometers from the sea -- they're going to be treasured here, and unfortunately they're going to be assigned to the allies under the name of the investor, and they're going to keep using these places for free. As a result, power brought this law to the jungle village to solve the problem of the citizen who lives in the forest. When this law came here, we really thought that the government, along with its 2/B land, would eliminate all these problems of the jungle villagers, that the citizen would relax, that he would sleep comfortably, but with every passing day, the chaos is increasing, and people have given up hope of taking these places. So instead of getting these problems out of here in a hurry, like this, on a day, on a commission, on a racehorse, instead of putting them back on the map, we need to get a consensus between groups, one meeting at a time to solve the citizens' problems, and really solve this problem and save the citizen from falling asleep. But it seems that the power enjoys applying the law of the forest to the forest peasant. Whereas these people, these peasants, our poor peasants, have supported power more than any other time. Let's at least agree on an arrangement to remove the question marks on the poor citizen's head, and as soon as this falls to 50 percent, there's a concern that the citizens will not be able to buy these places, unfortunately, in most places, and that the cost will be determined properly, so that the citizens can take these places. I, God willing, salute your grand delegation in the coming days, hoping to find a firm solution to this matter.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0219par0205	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The first word for the individuals is Mr. Selahattin Karaahmetoglu, MP of Giresun. Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0220par0209	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to support the Developments of Forest Villagers 428 rows and to assess Places Out of Forest Borders in the Name of Treasure and to make changes to the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on Forestry Lands of Treasures. I salute you all. On April 19, 2012, 2/B was passed. It's been ten and a half months since then. The property of the law was that the price of the track was out of the General Assembly at 70 per cent. About a month and a half ago, a new arrangement was presented to the Commission. According to this arrangement, 400 square metres of land would be sold at 50 per cent of the rail price, while the rest would be sold at 70 per cent. If the person had more than one piece of land, he should have preferred one of these. The sale of the land was relocated to the Parliament's agenda for the sale of the land over 70 per cent -- a month after the incident -- from 70 per cent to 50 per cent -- to 50 per cent. At the commission meeting, I'd like to remind you that Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, our Deputy Group President, can't solve the problem, that soon there may be a need to redesign it, that I'm wrong, that we won't be able to do it. We're discussing the matter today, tonight at the General Assembly. As a result, the law will be adopted by majority votes, but the problems will not be resolved and the needs will not be met. In this sense, when a new arrangement arises, I would like to remind you that the Republican People's Party's views on 2/B may help you in the future. Our view as the Republican People's Party is that in our country, this legal problem between a state and a citizen concerned with 2 million people in the forest, 5 million in the forest, and 10 million in total, is that the state and the citizens be reconciled. That's the way we see it. The land which is handed over to the forest villagers for the purpose of agriculture and animalism will not be used except for the purpose of agriculture, or for the purpose of animalism, or for the purpose of farming, or for the purpose of animalism; although it has already been sold by the state or passed on by various laws, we will return the property to the former owners for free, as a matter of respect for property rights which has been cancelled by the two/B. I want to make one thing clear: when 2/B first came to the Commission, Rayic was offered 70 percent of the price. In the commission, the groups also discussed among themselves and agreed to withdraw it to 50 per cent, where 70 per cent was high, and it was voted down to 50 per cent. Meanwhile, our commissioner, Mr. İbrahim Yiğit, told Mr. Minister that 50 per cent was actually high, but he made a wish in the Council of Ministers that this would be lowered, but here, while the law is being discussed in the General Assembly, the sale price of the AKP's deputies from 70 per cent to 50 per cent of the Commission has been raised from 70 per cent to 70 per cent in the General Assembly. In the commission, our 12 AKP-led friends, who reduced from 70 per cent to 50 per cent, unfortunately raised their fingers in the General Assembly to up from 50 per cent to 70 per cent. Of course we don't think that's true. I'd like to remind you, is this law really meant to solve the problems of our citizens, or is it for a certain runt? While the law on urban transformation of disaster-risk areas is being discussed, the fact that revenues from 2/B are being used as a source of urban transformation is a very clear example of whether it is serious or in terms of the citizens. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0221par0217	Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, the last word is Mr. Yunus Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0222par0221	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a commitment to our proposed law on some of the articles of the Law, known as Number 6292, which are known as.2/B. I would like to speak on Article 2 of the Law, and I would like to present all of you with respect. Honourable lawmakers, what we want to do here is we're pulling 70 percent of the cost of land for people who need to be protected, who need positive discrimination, who are farming, who are producing for this country, who are producing for this country, to 50 percent of the rail price set in the old law. What do we want to do here? We want to be a little more social. So, of course, our villager's share of the national product is quite low for other parts of our country. Despite the fact that the EC has tripled with the PARTY, it is still one third of the country's average. So, almost all over the world, the share of the rural population is low on national income. So part of being a social state is that in areas where positive discrimination is needed, they can be determined well, delivered by law, followed and made to be protected. This is also said that the government, the state, has a obligation to improve the revenues of people in low-level income groups by making arrangements to reduce the difference in development between classrooms while prosperity is growing from one side of our country. Otherwise, your income will reach $25,000, $30,000, but you're not exactly a social state, so the Human Development Index is way below that. So, right now, the income level of our farming, animal-making people, our people living in the country, our people producing for this country, we all have to accept that it's still low. So in order to contribute to the income level of people in this area, we're making a positive distinction with this group in the law. Well, the opposition lawmakers say, "Sir, at zero price, if you gave them free, free, even. " Would that be justice? It wouldn't be for us, because on these farmlands, the people of the entire country have the right. You can't just hand it over to the other side unfairly because you're going to make positive discrimination. Thus, finding a medium was necessary to protect one side and not give up the other's rights unfairly. The AK PARTY wants to do that with the legal change it's making right now. Well, is it still expensive? We don't think it's expensive. This is -- and so is our national property manager -- during the Commission talks, we generally took this attitude, the honorable lawmakers, and we said, "Please, when you're setting these prices, please, take a stand by the citizen, so don't identify them with the government protection reflex." We think, we believe, that they've determined it by thinking about the value of the value of the price, or of the citizen. And again, assuming there's a section that needs protection, as an AK PARTY group, we'd like to pass on rights to our villagers, to those who run farms, to those who want to take 50 percent of it. Of course, if they pay in advance, there'll be a 10% discount here, so we'll be handing it over to these people at 40 percent of the cost. Other than that, we're making the definition of a medical field clear because it's clear that the Metropolitan City Law and the mujavir areas will change. We're making this definition clear so it doesn't cause any confusion later. Speaking on behalf of CHP, the speaker said: "Those who turn forests into farmland by opening them should be paid in addition to those who do. " Now, respected lawmakers, this is very contrary to logic, logic, forest protection reflex. So the citizen is opening the forests, and you're giving them free money for the opening, and you're giving them extra money, but on the one hand, the same opposition party was screaming when we offered to bring the 2/B land back to the rightful owners: you're attracting the forests to people, and you're selling them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Well, on the one hand you're selling the woods. You're yelling, "Let's give them away for free." It's obvious how incompatible this attitude is. This law is intended to protect our peasant. He says good luck, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0223par0233	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0224par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the property of this forest headquarters was first illegally taken from you by the Metropolitan Municipality and is now being used as the parking lot of the Justice and Development Party, the area where the vehicles were stopped. Do you find that ethical as a minister? Doesn't the Justice and Development Party have money to buy a parking lot, but you're using it as a parking lot and you're using it as a parking lot for the forest headquarters? My second question, Mr. Secretary, is that not one tree will be cut down while this Gazi compound is being built. Hundreds of trees have been cut down. Do you find it right for a minister to give false information at the General Assembly or from where you sit? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0225par0240	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0226par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this new arrangement envisions the use of fugitives from forest villagers and people who are doing illegal construction in Istanbul or other major cities? Which are the provinces where prices have not been determined so far? Is there a Kütahya province in them? What are the main reasons why these rail prices have so far not been determined? Is there any guarantee of these rail prices set by this arrangement? Will the peasant be able to buy the land he's been operating on for years at a lower price, or will the land in the hands of the peasant be sold to some company or to others? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0227par0245	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0228par0246	Thank you. Mr. Minister, now, while Sami Kılıç, deputy director of Ankara Forest District, serves this state with honor and honor for forty years, to bring the head of a supporting union to Ankara Regional Directorate, Denizli Regional Manager is being removed from duty and brought to Ankara. Sami Sword is also being exiled, and when this transfer is issued, he has a cerebral hemorrhage and dies three days later. Now, in violation of the appointment regulations, the president of this sub-union union, even though his staff is in Denizli, remains in charge of the Ankara Regional Directorate. As a minister, do you find it right to make such irregular appointments or to circumvent the law, to circumvent the regulations? Do you believe that a forest ministry that operates in this way can solve 2/B? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0229par0250	Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0230par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when you entered your website about the CED reports, we had a chance to see what part of Turkey, what subjects were made of CED, and what information was made about them. However, after the move of your ministry or after the reorganization of your ministry, when will we be able to see it when it's in the system? When are you going back to your old form to get information on the CED reports? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0231par0254	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0232par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are seasonal workers at the Mudla Gökova nursery that vary from 50 to 150 people from time to time. They say they don't pay their insurance. Do you employ uninsured workers? Do you know anything about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0233par0258	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0234par0259	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, do you find it correct that the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs receives a salary from 6400 additional indicators from the Office of Strategy and Development? Again, with a decree issued by the ministry's advisers in accordance with the law, their salaries were increased, and many of your allies and party members were taken as consultants. Do you find it right to have a number of patients in various places who have served in this profession for many years when most of them are not on duty? Is this a deterrent policy, an area evacuation policy, or is it still an app for the removal of fellow trustees, paralegals, their surrogates, their children?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0235par0262	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0236par0263	It has been stated that Mr. Yilmaz, our MP, bought and used as a parking lot by the Metropolitan Municipality of the Forest General Directorate. I'm going to read the answer here: the forest headquarters will be built on the new campus, the property of our directorate of the forest, in the district of Yenimahalle, outside the forest farm district of Ankara. No narrowing has been made in the area of the park area, which is the site of the Ataturk House and the Guard House, and the parking lot in the parcels and the area in front of the AK PARTI headquarters, which is still used as a parking lot, have been trambed with the development plan and no narrowing in the area of protection.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0237par0265	Is the parking lot yours, Mr. Secretary? Let them answer him.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0236par0266	But she's been traumatized...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0237par0267	Your current parking lot, the parking lot you're using, is owned by the state.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0236par0268	It's a trampoline. Tramped out of government property.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0237par0269	Sir, did he do the trampoline with the AKP? He built the trampoline with the city, so he could get the law out of the way. Right now, you're parked in an irregular area.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0238par0270	Reverend, I'll finish the Minister's speech in five minutes and leave us with the rest of the questions, please.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0236par0271	How many of these 2/B areas will benefit from new regulations and illegal construction? Why haven't the prices been determined so far? They ask, "Will the peasant be given a high price again, and will these things fall into the hands of others? " Sir, now, you have to appreciate that for the past ten years, illegal construction has been reduced 95% in our time. I mean, no one's ever looked down on them -- no matter where you are, no matter where you are, uninnovated, unlicensed -- our municipalities are tearing them down. You have to say it once, very honestly. I'd like to express in particular the subject of the cost -- of course, very much expressed -- of course. On the part of the island, on the part of the island, evaluations on the part of the region have been sensitively assessed as part of the ownership of forest-designed areas throughout Turkey. The adjacent parcel may be on the back side of the main street; the prices of the back parcel, which is on the same island on the front side of the street, can be different, but as far as the floor of the parcel, its size, its size, its size, its size, its size, its price is changing as much as smaller. Again, the land of agriculture, the rent it brings, the yield, the zoning situation, all the criteria have been evaluated. Here, not only from one place, but from deeds, real estate agents, managers, environments, trades... there are people there who use 2/B, and you sell this land for what? Believe me, I sincerely want to put it here, and I've been a little bit involved, and if we went through real estate statements -- you wouldn't like it -- it would have been very unfair. Now, we've been trying to determine the real cost as possible here. What are we doing in agriculture at these rail prices, outside of the mujavir fields? We're lowering 50 percent in advance to 10 percent in advance, so we're giving a place that's worth 50 liras to a citizen at $22.5. I mean, that's a really good point. For a very small sum of money, I have given money, and I have taken my place. It is something that the citizen will claim. I'd like to present it to everyone's discretion. I'll do a study on the appointment of the director of the forest, Mr. Yilmaz. I'll inform you later. 119 documents have previously been requested concerning CED reports, and we now request 19 documents to submit CED reports, and they are re-published on our website. Maybe it's been a setback for a while, but maybe you can learn that from our website again starting Monday. Again, in time, we submit the CED reports, not the CED document, in about 15 days, and the CED reports within about two months. That was before -- eight years ago, ten years ago -- about a year ago, but we narrowed it down to two months. Hopefully -- we're working right now -- in a shorter time, maybe 25 days, a month, a month and a half, we'll give it to you again. There is a question about Murlah, about Gökova. I don't know how to run an uninsured worker, which is out of the question, but I'm going to look at it and, again, I'm going to present information. I'd also like to point out, my dear fellow lawmakers, that this is the least public appointment in our time in the ten-year-old Justice and Development Party rulings. We certainly don't take people who have no memory, no qualifications, no needs. The counseling staff or the press consultant or the staff of the chief of staff is the least used staff. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0239par0281	6400...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0240par0282	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up. You'll probably give it to me in writing later. Now, there are three motions on the item, so I'll have it read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is 50 per cent of the price on the 2nd article of the Law Proposal 428 which is in question, but we propose and propose that the property must be added after the declaration of its tax value. Ramazan Kerim Özkan Arif Bulut Osman Captain Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd amendment to the 428 rows of the law in question. In this way, we offer and offer to remove the expression if it is later used for different purposes. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Celal Adan Ahmet Kenan Godkulu D. Ali Torlak I'll read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Proposal number 428. We offer and propose that the article be changed in the following way. The Hasip Tiger Iron Steel Secret İdris Bauken Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu The price of sale in the first sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of Article 6292 is 70 per cent of the price of the original price. The price of sale is 50 per cent of the rail price for those used as stated in the fourth sentence of Article 6 in the fourth sentence of the Article 6 has been changed in the same sentence, in order to be used for different purposes. Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0241par0310	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0240par0311	I'm reading the reason: The municipality and the mujavir area, which is in effect on the day of the Law's proposal, is now in effect within the limits of the municipality and the mujavir area, and the new city municipal law, which will be enforced in the upcoming local elections, is being nullified. With the new Metropolitan Law, new powers will be set and thus confused about these areas. To prevent this, the text has been offered to be changed.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0242par0316	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit03spe0240par0317	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0240par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 73th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision on Article 2 of the Law Proposal 428, given by Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 428. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the Law Proposal, 428 rows in question. In this way, we offer and offer to remove the expression if it is later used for different purposes. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0243par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0240par0016	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0244par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Law Proposal 428, and I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin, five of our citizens died today in the village of Azizli, in the village of Ceyhan, Adana Province, because of three acres of land, and seven of our citizens were injured. One of the people who lost their lives is the County General Assemblyman of the Justice and Development Party -- the one I know very well -- and God bless him and his son. Again, the village of Azizli -- it's the forest village -- is the old chief and son that I know very well, and one worker has lost their lives, and we have seven wounded. I wish God's mercy to our fallen citizens and an immediate healing to the wounded. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out that the tragic incident here is the result of the talk of weapons over a three-acre plot of conflict, indeed, Turkey's situation is an example. Precious lawmakers, one of the most important points that we cannot agree on is that the government and Justice and Development Party look at these fields as follows: the land, the state, the seller, and the state are forced to sell these land to its buyers. Dear lawmakers, our citizens in these places have been using these places for hundreds of years, for a hundred years. Now I've had it with me, and I didn't get it -- the citizen has the Ottoman deed, and there are letters written about these places in 1918, so these places, you, these citizens -- today, we've kept the price of Rayic too low, you know, not to keep it low. If these were the people who bought this place from the ground up, Mr. Secretary, I'll admit it, they're valued MPs, but these are our citizens who have been using these places for a long time. Today, look, nearly 2,000 citizens came to the House as victims of 2/B. These were so cheap... there were even ladies, old aunts in them. I'm just saying, they're saying that in our village there are 70 percent votes in the Justice and Development Party. I mean, why do these people feel the need to travel here by bus for 30 hours since yesterday, if it's something they can afford cheap? How will they get it? They can't, that's the trouble. I asked some of the aunts who came in -- old aunts, uncles -- and I said, "What is your problem?" I have eight acres, 90 thousand liras, 80 thousand liras. When I try to buy this place from 50 percent of it, it'll come to 40,000 liras, 50,000 liras; 8 acres will come to 300,000 liras, 400,000 liras. We don't have any money to pay. We're already in debt to banks, we're in the hands of loan sharks. They say it's about 23,000 lira a month from here. What is the crime of these citizens, dear lawmakers? Now, they've done all kinds of tasks. They didn't take it, they left it with their grandparents. These citizens, who are living in these difficulties, are trying to plant and harvest and provide school opportunities for their children from around here under very difficult circumstances, and they will not be able to take these places while they try to survive. When they didn't take these places, when they didn't... Look, I've been talking to all sides of Turkey, and you've been talking to them, and even though they're applying, they won't be able to take these places. When they don't get it... as I said earlier, the land is a virtue in our homes. We do all our duties to the government; when you say to the military, we go, and when you say to them, we give them to them. Even though we do all the work, Mr. Prime Minister and the ministers don't listen to our problems. They just told me that in Antalya, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs knows how to scold this poor citizen. But I can honestly say that you won't listen to citizens who fit the laws of Turkey, the minimum conditions, but unfortunately, you're going to talk to the baby killer, the terrorist, the heroin smuggler, and you're going to negotiate, which this nation won't forgive, Congressman. When this nation is doing its duty, when you're going to the army, when you're doing what the government says, you're not going to do it, but you're going to have to swallow the negotiation with the terrorist leader, giving him the opportunity; it's not an acceptable event and approach. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Rest assured, don't rely on 50 percent of you, this nation will teach you the lesson you need. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0245par0028	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is 50 per cent of the price on the 2nd article of the Law Proposal 428 which is in question, but we propose and propose that the property must be added after the declaration of its tax value. Arif Bulut (Antalia) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0246par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0245par0037	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0247par0038	Mr. Arif Bulut...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0245par0039	Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0248par0041	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 2 of the law under discussion. I salute your High Council. In Antalya, my constituency, there are about 36,000 hectares of 2/B land owned by some 83,000 of our citizens, and when looked at as amount, Antalya is ranked 1st in Turkey. Antalya is a major tourist destination, but Turkey's most important agricultural region. It's unique in the diversity of agriculture. The agricultural movement in Antalya is large enough to directly affect inflation in Turkey. These 2/B fields are mostly zoning-free land used for agricultural purposes. The 83,000 people who use these fields are often our poor, low-income citizens. Despite astronomical increases in agriculture over the past decade, the economic situation of our citizens has become increasingly corrupt because the price of products has not increased. The government expects 4 to 7 billion Turkish dollars from 2/B fields in Antalya, but our citizens don't have that kind of money, even if you spread it for 10 years, even if you spread it for 6 years. Serious errors have been made in determining the rail costs of the 2/B properties in Antalya. In particular, it has not been justified to determine the value of the price. Rayic prices are set at a price of between 4 and 10 times higher than the property in the same location. Even if the value here is reduced by 50 percent, it's still 2 to 5 times higher. In Aksu, Eyebrow, Belt, Kumluca, Finike, Serik, and Alaniah, the prices are particularly high. It's clear how high prices are when you look at the property value tax, the cost of money, the nationalization value, the values set by the governorship, the values that the municipalities appreciate and the annual rents of these fields. In the same areas, soil barem detection by the Agriculture Bank also shows how high these prices are. Dear friends, it's called support of the forest peasant, but there's no support in it, and there's how to rob a forest peasant. Recipient prices determined by the bookkeeping in Antalya have received serious reactions. The people of Antalya are acting on action. Antalya Logistics has not been able to disclose its price to the public since 2010, but the Minister of the Forest himself has scolded and insulted the citizen who was exposed to the right response of the citizen in Antalya. This is what suits the AKP. Yes, the party's mayor of the Province, whose price is not fair, is high. Those who admit that their screams are justified are the CHP and the MHP people who are bookkeeping officers, who are doing this to force the AKP. He has accused government officials of blaming them and pointed to them. There's a much more interesting situation here. Recipient prices detected in the area of a member of the AKP are well-priced compared to property tax, expiration rates, farm rentals. I mean, compared to other villages and neighborhoods, it's four to 10 times cheaper. So, the supporters are protected, protected... the prices around here are almost worth real estate prices. This is the value that we offer for all citizens, so the price must not exceed the value of real estate. However, they have applied the solution that we offer for all citizens, but they do not apply it to normal citizens. The farms that were farmed in many regions in Antalya are priced as if they were zoning land. This is a very serious injustice. Dear friends, the prices for the fields are normal in the positions of our fellow deputy and AKP executives, but the others are abnormal. That's where our objection comes in. None of the 83,000 people who have the right demand a price for free or under their real value. They demand a fair and just number, such as in the districts of AKP MPs and executives, to be applied in their own fields, to be applied in real numbers, true and righteous. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0249par0054	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. Sustained. There are two motions in Article 3, in order of... Excuse me...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0250par0059	Mr. President, I'd like a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0249par0060	We haven't started, we haven't started. Excuse me... Now I'm going to have it read, and then, here, we're going to look at personal words. ADDE 3-31/8/1956 and additional 11th Article of Forest Law No. 6831 added to the bedding below. (e) Permissions given to build health and education facilities can be established on behalf of the contractor on the basis of the public special co-operation model of facilities or on the request of the relevant ministries if the existing facilities are renovated. Permissions continue on behalf of the relevant ministries. There's no other price to be taken from the contractor, which has been established in his name, except for the cost of planting. Permissions in this scope can be given primarily in broken forest areas. At least twice the area allowed is assigned by the Finance Ministry to plant in the Forest General Directorate. I'm going to read about our friends who have asked for words on the behalf of the 3rd article, and I'm going to read the information of the General Assembly, who have asked for words on behalf of their people. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Mr Seyfetttin Yilmaz. On behalf of his subjects, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz, Karabuk MP Osman Caffeci. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first statement is from İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0251par0070	Can't you talk?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0249par0071	Mr. Young, everyone's talking. I made a mistake, I made a mistake, that it was considered the basic law, so I went from matter to matter. No, that's what everyone's talking about. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0252par0073	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. This law proposal, which envisions a change in law 2/B, has nothing to do with Article 3/B, which we are now discussing. The introduction of such an arrangement into a law proposal involving millions of people such as 2/B is not in line with the lawmaking technique; it is not in line with the expectations of our 10 million citizens. I find it sad that when they wait for a price to come out here that might appeal to their budgets, their financial powers on 2/B, this arrangement, which allows some investors to make some conveniences with a model called public-private partnership, which we call co-operation, to give to them in a way that's contrary to the Constitution, really took place here. You adopted a law on public-private partnership, public-private cooperation and the establishment of health facilities, and you put it into effect. We have expressed the objectionable aspects of this law in both the relevant commission and the General Assembly. We've expressed here how much trouble there will be in public debt management, such as guaranteeing treasure for these investments. Now, you bring that arrangement here in order to promote health and education facilities in the forests. The regulation in this article clearly contradicts the 169th Article of the Constitution. Our Constitution, unlike many other countries' constitutions, has given special importance to the preservation of forests and has established it as a constitutional provision. The 169th article of our Constitution contains the title of protection and development of forests, under which regulations for the protection and development of forests. Look what the relevant article, the 169th article of the Constitution, says. The second joke of matter is that the ownership of the state forest cannot be taken over. State forests are run and run by the law. These forests cannot be acquired by the statute of limitations and are not subject to the right to altitude except for public interest. The Constitutional Court has expressed this provision for the protection of forests as the supreme public benefit in its decisions. Many Constitutional Courts view forest protection as the highest public benefit, prior to investments, from all other jobs described as public benefit. Thus, if there is another public benefit that can prevent this superior public benefit in the protection of forests, then some investments can be allowed to be made by establishing altitude rights in the forests. The Constitutional Court has made it clear in its various decisions, such as a land investment, for example a water investment, for example an investment in an oil pipeline, for example an investment in energy pipelines, such as this, when we really call it public benefit, there will be no debate, yes, by the entire community, these should be done in the forests, due to investments that will be said to be made. This clause violates this very clear rule of the Constitution. It is said that a sentence has been placed here in order to overlook this violation a little bit, which is a priority for the poor forests to be established in favour of third persons. It is said that there is forest quality, not good enough, but technically, let's make these investments where it is described as a deficient forest. What investments are these? Health and education investments. Health and education investments are investments that are impossible to make in the forests, given the Constitutional Court's relevant decisions. An arrangement has been made in the Constitutional Court's relevant decisions and in the relevant Article of the Law of the Forest, but other than that, no hospital investment has been described as an institution that can be made in the forests by the Constitutional Court or by the Law of the Forest. You can build the hospital anywhere, but you can't plant the forest anywhere, you can build the training facility anywhere, but you can't plant the forest anywhere. In order to make education and health investments in the forests, the law must determine the objective conditions. If the law does not determine that, I will invest in education and health care in the forest. You do not have the chance. The fact that they will be carried out in the corrupt forests will not save the situation in the face of this relevant judgment of the Constitution. The broken forest is, by definition, a forest. Besides, the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks is implementing a project we call rehab of corrupt forests. This project has many subtitles, subroutines. The Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs has set aside a grant worth hundreds of millions of TL, billions of TL, for the restoration of these corrupt forests, and spends it. Mr. Forest and Waterworks Minister says because of its budget from this bench, because of other means, they have taken steps in the forest, saying how much effort they have made to improve the bad forest. Dear MPs, the arrangement is not right. This arrangement needs to be removed from here. Instead, we propose that this proposal for 2/B or some of the problems that Law 6292, which was adopted on April 19 last year, should not be solved. That's what our motion is for. Although the forest appears to be legal with the 2/B land, although the forest has actually lost its quality, it aims to solve the property problem in areas that have not been taken out of the forest border, and in areas 2/B and again, with land 2/B that have been built, and again, in areas where the structured forest lands are intertwined, our proposal includes it. We can see this in Istanbul, we can see it in Sultanbeyli, we can see it in Czechköy, we can see it in Sultangazi, we can see it in Beykoz, we can see it in the provinces of Turkey, we can see it in various provinces of Anatolia, we can see it in Antalya, it's a proposal that solves this. The issue of 2/B is located in 68 districts of Turkey. We're dealing with an offer that doesn't solve a problem that exists in the 68 counties. Mr. Secretary is making statements here. Actually, he's not in the Minister's line of duty, but he has to defend it because he's sitting on behalf of the government. Yes, you set 70 percent of the cost or 50 percent of the price as a price. The commissions are considering it. The commissions have been very thorough, I'm sure, but you want them to make a provision that the law doesn't give, that the law doesn't, that you want them to sacrifice the commissions; that's the problem. Thousands of our citizens from Antalya came here for him. In the end, those commissions are limited to what they can do, they have limited rights of appreciation, and they have no chance of getting below a certain number, and they have no flexibility. You can't ask commissions for non-resistant flexibility. This is his solution. Instead of asking commissions for sacrifice, let's solve it by law here. Why is it that the price of sale to the person who owns 100 acres of land 2/B is the same as the price of sale you're willing to pay for it? Is that fair? Come on, let's fix this. Our proposal is to correct some of them. We've made a motion for the next chapter in Article 1, and you haven't accepted it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to commend you on accepting this. Thank you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0253par0087	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0254par0090	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we find it very difficult to understand why an important law proposal such as 2/B has nothing to do with 2/B. This is not the right approach. This is a matter that directly concerns the Law of the Forest, and according to information, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has already prepared for some changes in the Law of the Forest, and it would have been far better assessed if this material had come in its preparation. This clause must be removed from this law proposal, absolutely and absolutely. Dear lawmakers include mineral permits from the 16th matter forests and general permissions from the 17th article of the 11th Amendment to the additional Article of the Law of Forest 6831. Now, the 17th article of Forest Law 6831, which regulates general permits, was vast. The Constitutional Court has cancelled some permits, such as tourism, foundation universities, with 2002/200 decision-making numbers, saying there is no greater public benefit than forests. Only land roads such as infrastructure, telephones, water, gas, oil, pipe Isale lines, defence facilities, Santorium, were condemned to pass through the forest, or to be confined to the conditions in which buildings and facilities that are remembered must be built on forest land. In accordance with this decision by the Constitutional Court, some of the jokes of Article 17/06/2004 were redacted under Article 5192/1. In this arrangement, the defence, transport, energy, water, wastewater, oil, natural gas, infrastructure, and solid waste disposal facilities can be allowed by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry in exchange for the public benefit or necessity of the building over the state's health, ponds and sports facilities, and all sorts of related areas, and in the case of the building's public use or necessity, the cost to those who are real and legal. It is said that no price is to be taken from those who are made or operated by the government. The important thing here is that state health, education and sports facilities and all sorts of places related to them and the building can be made free of charge in the public forest. Such a right has not been defined for real and legal persons, but it has also been granted permission to hospitals with the cooperation of public-private sectors. Dear lawmakers, now, with this, if you solve every issue you can't solve with permission from the forests, you'll face serious difficulties. As the National Movement Party, we have no problem with the construction of health facilities in the forests, but since I've been working with this organization myself, I know that most of the time, we've brought public investments there -- in places where there are no alternatives except forest -- can be allowed. Even though it's been said, one of the most important practices in the history of governments today -- is that public investments, such as hospitals and sports facilities -- have been easy for everyone, and at this point our forests have been damaged. Today, with this law brought in, I say very clearly, for example, a citizen who wants to invest in the private sector in Istanbul will say, "Give me this space, I will build a hospital with public-privileged partnership, with cooperation." And after that, the Ministry of Health will apply and will open the way for the construction of such places across the forests of Turkey, such as Antalya. Dear MPs, we need to know very well that Turkey, let alone a forest-rich country, is a forest-poor country. Today, 30 per cent of the face measurements in the world and Europe are covered by forests, while our country has about 27 per cent of that rate, and almost all of the European forests are fertile forests, while 50 per cent of our forests are inefficient forests. So we have about 10.5 million hectares of fertile forest, and we have 10.5 million hectares of barren forests. Now, Mr. Secretary comes out of here over and over again, and he says: "We are one of the few countries in the world that increase the presence of the forest." Now, friends, there's no need for us to deceive ourselves, we need to make the findings right. Look, in the Republic of Turkey, we all know that 75 percent of our population lived in villages. Later, because of the problems of living in the villages and increased industrialisation in our cities, a dense migration from the countryside to the cities has eased the pressure on the forests. When I was in the province of Kastamonu in Tossya, I saw a place in Kilkuyu, a vast area, covered with forests like brushes, and I said: "When was work done here?" (It was where the citizen was led by a team.) From Kilkuyu, from Tosya, he emigrated to Istanbul and left the land, and from there came the forest. Again, we all know that the forest cadastro work has been increasing very rapidly over the last few years, with the forest cadastro, forest areas have begun to be detected, and they have caused our forest areas to increase. In addition to the selfless work of our forest service, the forest has been also helped to increase our forest existence, along with the areas the treasure has assigned, but Mr. Forest and Water Minister is here because he doesn't understand forestry, he shows you 50 paintings, doesn't he? We did what wasn't done, we did what wasn't done, we did some 500 thousand hectares of wooding, he says. Dear friends, this is not the Minister's wooding. Now, this is a Ministry run by a Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs who can't distinguish rehab from treeing. Now, rehab is very important. Look, valuable lawmakers, the world today sees global warming and climate change as the most important thing that threatens the world. The antidote to global warming and climate change is forests. One hectare of fertile forest absorbs 52 tons of carbon dioxide, while one hectare of broken forest absorbs 13 tons of carbon dioxide. So there's a difference between the fertile forest and our barren forests, no matter where you look, about four times the size of it. If we're going to fight global warming and climate change in the world, we need to increase our forest areas, and we need to do rehab fast. Well, if we have about ten and a half million hectares of broken forest space, we need to rehabilitate fast here. These are the right studies, but we need to get the House and the public to know the truth. What I've done is 350,000 hectares of rehabilitation, which I've done in exchange for the control of wooding and erosion, 100-120,000 hectares, 130,000 hectares. If you say so, you will inform the Parliament and the public correctly, but if you, like our Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, you will come out and put the signs in front of you, and you will mislead this House if you don't give yourself the information. So, dear lawmakers, let me make it clear that we should no longer be able to manipulate this forest of ours. I thank you, indeed, that during the Justice and Development Party administration, the cadastria has been given a lot of speed, and we should no longer turn forests above the forest as an area where everyone will come and use them during the end of about 95 per cent of the forest in Turkey today. Today in Europe, we can no longer protect these forests, if we can't plan the habitat of our forest village, and we can't plan the habitat of our wildlife, and we can't see the forest as an area that will be applied to anyone who wants it to be easy, every time we get stuck, we can increase the destruction of these forests. That's what it's made of today. Hospitals with public-private cooperation, which had nothing to do with 2/B, as if there was nowhere left, from the forests... we also claimed on the Commission. At least give it to them in the bad forest areas. Even though we said it, they also put in fertile forests. Look, dear lawmakers, you don't care about this, but I'm telling you it's going to happen tomorrow, they're going to come, they're going to keep it in our three closed fertile forests, and they're going to try to build these hospitals. If you open this up, tomorrow other public institutions will see the forests as the easiest land, causing the destruction of these forests. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is the wrong procedure. This clause has to get out of the law. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0255par0107	On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Adnan Chiefk Ugly. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0256par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with respect, love, respect. Now, I'd like to say a few words about your lawmaking technique before I allow public-private cooperation in forest areas and facilities related to health and education. So the opposition lawmakers at 2/B have repeatedly expressed to you that this is going to be a mistake, that this is going to be a victim of forest villagers, that their pain, that there is no law on their suffering, including me. In fact, in a speech from this platform again, we have a referendum -- 7 million forest villagers because -- we have expressed in the 2007 elections how you promised these villagers, and how you didn't get their votes in the general elections by almost 100 percent, and at the end of that, it was somehow ingratitude for the forest peasant. Now, you're trying to change that, so you're embarrassing the opposition, including members of the ruling party's ruling party, and you're condemning the lawmakers who signed these laws. You bring a law to the commission, to the debate, to the same law, without us discussing it, you replace it with a different motion. I mean, it doesn't suit a ten-year-old power. You've got some very valuable lawmakers, very valuable bureaucrats, who've done the Department of Forestry. But I see in some laws that there's a direct wet signature on it, so there's no name for the owner of a law proposal that's been opened in this form. And what we understand from here is that they're probably drafting a motion for bureaucracy or something, getting lawmakers to sign it from the commission or from here. For one thing, it's a law prepared in this seriousness -- we don't know about the other commissions -- it doesn't do any good, you hit the wall, and as a result, by the end of the House this year, we're going to have to deal with these forest laws more and more until June 30th. Change this head, he'll come back. You've reduced 70 percent to 50 percent, you've raised the installment from 5 to 10; you can make 20 installments if you don't change your understanding at this price, you can't make peace with the forest villager unless you've saved the rail price detection commission from the financiers. I don't blame the financers, the financers, of course, take care of the state, not the people, not the people. So if the financier was looking out for his citizen, there wouldn't be a foot of land left in this government in 80, 90 years. But in this structure, you can't meet and make peace with a staff of that understanding, a forest peasant at a cost. And this public-private partnership is coming out of nowhere, so it looks like there's more to come than that. You're opening a door. May God bless the end of the forest, and may God protect the forests from this evil mind. It's not the right thing to do. In the future, we'll all see the damage. With these thoughts and feelings, I offer you all respect and love. Hopefully, I invite you to come back from this wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0257par0116	Mr. Osman Coffeemaker, Karabuk MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0258par0119	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 3th Amendment to the Law Proposal of the Law on the sale of Territorial Agriculture Lands, in the name of the Forest Villagers, in the name of the Treasury, and in the outside of the Forest Borders. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, forests in our country are the most important natural resources under the government's rule and savings. The forests provide unique services to mankind from global warming and climate change to water and soil protection. Therefore, all facilities and permits on the forests are limited to the 169th and 170th Articles of our Constitution, and also to the 17th Amendment of Forest Law 6831, and the basis for the public benefit of all permits. However, in 2002, only because of the permits given by public interest, the Constitutional Court had been sent to annul Article 17 and this clause had been annulled for violation of the Constitution. This clause has been redesigned on grounds of cancellation and has been introduced as a concept of necessity as well as public benefit. With this arrangement, health, education and sports facilities are granted up to forty-nine years if they are owned by the dam, ponds, graveyards, and state facilities -- in the case of public benefit and necessity to be built -- such as defence, transportation, energy, communication. So far, the permits are two parts of a thousandth of the country's forest area. In recent years, however, public institutions and institutions for public benefit for health, education and sports facilities have been needed with the do-and-do model for public use, and therefore, with the addition of the 11th article to the 17th article, there has been a prerequisite for allowing the construction-business model to be built in places where there are no charges allowed. This third article arrangement, however, is allowed by the ministries concerned with facilities for education and healthcare areas. If the owner of the permit demands it, they are also allowed to be built or renovated to third persons, and it is possible to establish the upper rights on behalf of the contractor. By this arrangement, parallels are laid down in the areas of treasure in Article 1 of Law 6428. In this case, all rights and obligations in the commitment bond are met by contractors and operators. Again, in this arrangement, when the contractor is given the upper rights, the price of planting is being taken from him, and there is also an exception to his other permits -- I'm going to press on it -- an important criteria are being introduced. Two times as much area as the given area is given from the treasure to the forest, but the forest areas are not reduced to the opposite, and there are twice as many fields as the given area. Look, so far -- I've been paying attention -- the ratio of health and education facilities to this country's forest area is one thousandth of a thousandth. Thus, the forest area is being increased by innovation, as such forest destruction is not at stake. As a result, Forest Law number 6831 shall be given in addition to the permit granted to public administrations and other public institutions and institutions on the basis of the do-and-do model, in accordance with the 17th Article of the Forest Law. In this way, very important public services, such as health care, education, and public-private cooperation, and private sector resources, will soon be presented to our nation's service. For this purpose, in case of need and necessity, first -- our friend has just mentioned three closed forests, which are mentioned here in the law -- the immediate introduction of these resources to the service and the immediate introduction of important services such as health and education to our nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you the best of this law. Our friend here just told me some numbers about the forest areas. Mr. Secretary's...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0259par0129	Thank you, Mr. Coffee Man.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0258par0130	...that he said about the wooding of the forest, not just in the wooding, but in our plan of action -- he knows himself -- that we're doing 500,000 hectares of wooding, that we're rehabilitating. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0260par0133	Mr. General Manager, let's face it, the Minister of the Forest doesn't know about forestry. I'll be up there in a minute. The Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs doesn't know about rehab, so let him come out and explain.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0261par0134	The woods are crying!
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0262par0135	I'm not interrupting the MPs, the MP from every party is talking there for a long time. After that, other parties start screaming, getting angry. Yeah, that's it, that's what I'm saying. Moving on to QA. Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0263par0138	Mr. President, I won't ask any questions. As a result of a gunfight in Adana, two of our citizens from the village of Mustafabeyli Azizli received the mercy of Allah. He was a dear friend of ours, Mahmoud Mazi, and we were together two days ago. May God have mercy on him, and his place will be in heaven. I say I am sorry for the loss of all our Adana. Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0264par0141	Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0265par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. The Bursa Doğanbey Urban Transformation Project appears to be a dagger stuck in the bosom of Bursa. The plaster on the outside walls of the building began to spill before the citizens got here. When we ask your ministry, in your response, you say this project is of Osmangazi Municipality. You say this project is of Osmangazi municipality. When asked questions, Osmangazi Municipality says this project is of the TOKI. Mr. Secretary, of course, no one can claim this evil, but whose project is this? I wonder who's going to pay for the mistakes you've made on this project, for the persecution of the citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0266par0145	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0267par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many hectares of the permits provided under this 16th and 17th article? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0268par0149	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0269par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Eroglu was in Burma at the weekend, talking about projects and investments as usual. Although we have doubts about its accuracy, he stated that he has earmarked $558m for 46 projects. How much of these projects are separate, starting, ending, and funding as State Waterworks and Forest General Directorate? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0270par0153	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0271par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the Kerishçi village of Kepez district is worth $7.8 per square meter in 2013, and the price of 2/B rayic in the same village is $30. Isn't that unfair? I've got the Ottoman deed and the Republic deed that's been cancelled because it's entering the forest border. You give the citizen the deed with one hand, you get it back with the other, and then you sell the same place. What kind of justice is that? Antaliah Deerbayı; Kabş, Beşir, Akör, Sarıbelen; Gazipaşa, and Kash. All the tears of our callous farmers are hanging around your necks like chains. Aren't you afraid of this plague? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0272par0157	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0273par0158	Thank you. We asked both the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and Istanbul will have a third bridge in the north and a third airport in the north, so they're saying something like that. There's a CED report, a feasibility report on something that's been tendered. We ask, "Mr. Ministers, how many trees will be cut down for airports, third bridges and north highways north of Istanbul?" There is no answer. How to pollute the environment, how to soil the lake of Terbanus, how to soil the reedider dam, do they have CED reports? There are no answers. We're going to open the canal. You're saying there's a feasibility study on this channel, is there an environmental report? There's no answer. Mr. Secretary, we've found you, we don't have the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, so if you'll excuse us, we're waiting here for an answer. You haven't answered the questions in writing, but we're waiting verbally, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0272par0160	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0274par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I regret to inform you that we have learned of the death of Mr. Atmaca, one of the very few businessmen of Ağrı. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0275par0164	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0276par0165	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, have you noticed the names of the victims of these 2/B properties? Hassan, Hussein, Ramadan, Bajram, Ese, Moses, Fadime, Fatma, our brothers and sisters who were separated from the heart of Asia Minor. I'd like you to look into these names. You reject these demands of our fellow farmers, and I see no change, and I bear the sadness of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0277par0168	Yes, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0278par0169	Mr. President, the very valuable lawmakers are a joint three-prompt project between our Public Housing Administration Chairman and Osmangazi Municipality in the district of Bursa Osmangazi. The project has its virtues, its critiques, and I thank you for the criticism. Now, constructions have, of course, setbacks, which we're dealing with in five years. The contractor has a pledge, and not all of it has been given to him, but as a guarantee. There is also a certain amount for you after the confirmation, and there is also an expiation for you. But, of course, according to the conditions of the day, the project was designed to pay attention to the conditions of the site, to give apartments to all of its owners, to give larger apartments, and to give prices at 30 percent cheaper. I express that in particular. So we gave the apartment that we cost $100,000 to the owners of $70,000, and we made all the rights owners of the apartment in place. But for today...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0279par0171	You just applied it to differences, Mr. Secretary, not the total cost. Twenty-five, thirty thousand lira per apartment...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0278par0172	We've given all of the rightful owners apartments with less than 70 percent of the cost, all of them.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0279par0173	You've taken 30 or 40,000 liras per apartment, so you haven't given them the deed yet, you haven't given them the deed, the citizen hasn't been able to get in yet, he's still out on the street.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0278par0174	Now, again, how many hectares have you allowed in the 16th and 17th article asked by our MP Yilmaz? The 45,315 hectares under the 16th article, and the 442,835 hectares of minerals, energy permits under the 17th article. There's a question Mr. Demirözeþe asked: Our Minister for Forestry and Water Affairs has announced 46 projects in Burma, and I will deliver their funds to Mr. Secretary, and I will try to give it to him in writing. Now, dear friends, it's not right to compare the parcels here, to the publicization, to the price of the rail. As each parcel has its own conditions, prices change rapidly for years. You have to look at the date here, and you have to look at the position of the parcel here, and you have to look at the size of it. Here we, as a government, certainly don't do anything unfair. So there's been a serious step to dealing with an issue that's been in the middle, which has been gangrene for years, and there's been a serious contribution from lawmakers, from all lawmakers, from the four members of our group here. The result of these contributions has come to this point today. We're dealing with these injustices. So most of the deeds that were cancelled were cancelled by court decrees, so during the cadastro assessments, where there were forest areas by law, where the forest was won, of course, because of the forest cadastro and the proprietary cadastro, they were cancelled, and then they were contested by the citizens, and then they were court-ordered, and they were processed by the court order, but we're still taking steps to correct them. I mean, to do all this... Cadastro detection has now been completed at 95 percent both the normal cadastro and the forest cadastro. There were some flaws in the cadastro, of course, for this 2/B. In the process, we've tried to finish these cadastros, and it's been a long time for him, so that there's no injustice to it. I'd like to express these in particular. We'll do the third Bosphorus bridge in Istanbul, hopefully, and the bidding process continues. We will again build the third airport in Istanbul, which is under way. It will be integrated into the third Bosphorus bridge and the airport. The CED reports will be filed before starting, unlicenseable without a CED report, and absolutely unstartable. Here, if the tree is to be cut down, twice as many trees will be planted within itself. I don't particularly want to...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0280par0178	Where are you going to plant it, Mr. Secretary? Where are you going to plant it?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0278par0179	We'll carry the trees we can carry, the trees that are ageable, and we'll certainly plant the others elsewhere, no doubt about it. So we're going to make these developments, which are essential to our Istanbul, to the environment, to the forest and to the location of the city, to the ecology of the city. We're also considering the location of the Seyzlidere Dam. He may be able to move it if necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0281par0182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two motions on Article 3, I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 (e) of Law Proposal 428 be changed in the following manner. (e) Despite the loss of its forest quality in science and science before 31/12/1981, the application of Law No. 6831 to the second amendment (B) to the second amendment (B) to the Treasury's outside of the forest border and to the area of 2/B and forest areas which have not yet been built for any reason, according to Article 3402 to the additional 4th article of the Law on behalf of the Treasury, the operation of the city's 2/B and forest areas is being carried out at the latest date. These places are sold to the rightful owners in accordance with these provisions. Ramadan Kerim Özkan Ali Sarıbaş Haydar Akar From the heart to the heart, Osman chooses Captain Vahaap I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment Proposal of 428 rows in question. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Zuhal Topcu Ali Longırmak Seyfetttin Yilmaz Münir Kutluata Do you agree with the commission? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0282par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0281par0204	Mr. Ali Longırmak. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0283par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the attention of the High Assembly, again, a building of logic, and I would like to look at one issue from a different perspective. You've turned the government into a rookie blacksmith donkey. I'm sorry. Five months ago, it rose to 70 percent here with a motion, which came with 50 percent. But what did poor peasant citizens do when they reached 70 percent, or people with land in certain places? My friends who have spoken so far, forgive me, but don't think that this price will be reduced after the decision was made in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 70 per cent ago, that it will benefit the village, that the price will be reduced, that in five months you will not be able to pay this fee, that your citizens in certain places have already sold the land they have already had with their deposits. He'll split the land for those who collect it, Mr. Secretary, because a lot of land has changed hands with the deposits. Now, in a democratic country, in a country where logic is established, the House has to take the initiative, give such a motion, control these land changes, and judge those who make this motion. Because you can raise the citizen to 70 percent and come back five months later and reduce it to 50 percent again. There's no harm in the benefit of the citizen, it's for the benefit of the fathers of money that collects land out of the hands of those who despair because it's up to 70 percent. Dear lawmakers, I said you've turned the state into a rookie blacksmith donkey. I'm sorry, but that's what happened. Look, if... There are friends who are very busy. Even though they're sitting here, the MPs are probably being very respectful, in the front row! If he's reading the paper, our congressman friends need to see something. That's what we had in a newspaper a week ago. You said Tablet computers, you said the FATIH Project, right? What hope have you given people, what have you done? Is that why the Minister of National Education has left? See, he doesn't recognize the smart wooden tablet. He says, and in the questions asked, does he have an interactive board connection? The question is, 54 percent of the students say, "No." 46 percent say, "Yes." I'm telling you something interesting, dear friends. See, 78 percent of the students and 89.6% of the teachers say no. Students and teachers say they are passive, not a factor in the FATIH Project. This tablet was expressed 88.4% in students and 97.3% in teachers. Do you read these, dear friends?
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0284par0213	Is there a classroom, a class that runs the boards? They can't.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0283par0214	So, now, France has been the same for 200 years, changing us every year. In the ten-year period of AKP rule, after entering primary school in 2001, three upper secondary schools and three university admission systems changed for a student. There's no opposition in the country. It's called. Friends, you are your opponents. If the system, method, curriculum, staff, everything is changing from a minister to a minister, you're destroying what you're doing, you're doing it again. How many times has the Minister of Health backed down from doctors to doctors in his time, from Full Day's Law to the next, which is now a law. It's a sabbatical, state order. Such Parliamentary work, such a state mentality... read some dear friends. When you vote for the law here, when you submit a motion to the law, when you propose the law, know what changes you make. I say again: Take it up to 70 percent in one night, then consult your consciences who collects goods from citizens, gathers land, collects deposits. Don't vote like a downloading machine here, precious MPs. Therefore, the materials are not important, nor are the motions too important. I know you'll refuse, but history won't forgive you. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0285par0219	The motion...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0286par0220	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-05sit04spe0285par0221	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
