tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Balbay, MP of İzmir, Mr. Köse of Çorum, who asked to be spoken on behalf of the 5th anniversary of the arrest of Mr. Mustafa Balbay. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, dear MPs, today I will share with you the letter that he has sent to the General Assembly to share and share with the Turkish nation the 5th anniversary of the arrest of our Izmir MP Mustafa Balbay. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all from my 5th year in detention. The captivity, which began on March 6, 2009, continues despite the national will. On the anniversary of my imprisonment, I have made a promise not only to express my own problem, but to share my thoughts on what I consider to be the greatest obstacle to civil peace, the unlawfulness, the injustice. Events show that the rule of rule of law has been replaced by an effective weapon of law. For a person, a problem as important as their safety is law enforcement. No one, including the Prime Minister, has legal security in Turkey today. Like many of the fundamental values of our country, the law is at stake. Sometimes it's taken from there and put into the packages, and it's not even known how it's been transformed because of the ingredients that go in, not even by those who prepare the package for whom and what it will serve. Congressmans, half of civil peace is the silence of all weapons, and the other half is the talk of people. If you aim to silence people with weapons, it's like cutting off a broken arm from the head to treat it. Law today has become a means to silence people rather than weapons. The law today has become the quickest tool for closed-door negotiations on the table. It is not in vain that the issues Turkey is most criticized for in the international community, where it is part of, have come to the beginning of issues of justice. Members of parliament, thousands of people in our country are being tried in private officials' courts, where parliament has decided to close last July. These courts declare that your laws are insufficient or unnecessary and make their own rules. If you do not touch me, let the court live a thousand years. You cannot stand by and watch this painting. Parliaments are responsible not only for what they do but also for what they do not do. The Prime Minister says that history does not forgive for some unacceptable legal mistakes. But will history forgive those who do not use the legal power necessary to break this law? No. The pages of history are filled with thousands of examples of this. As lawmakers prepared this speech in front of my 80-eyed iron-barred cell window, negotiations were under way for the fourth judicial package. It is unclear from the prime minister what changes the package from the Council of Ministers will be made in the parliamentary corridors. This painting that everyone's used to is actually the most concrete indication that the judiciary has become part of the power movement. Because these packages are prepared not according to the legal requirements, but according to the direction of the steps of power. As an MP trying to monitor their progress closely within the scope of possibilities, I regret to say that most of society, including the people in prison, believes that the law is distributed by bargaining, not justice. Laws come out seasonal, many of them fill their lives before the season is out, and when they complete their function, they are replaced with a new one. Congressman, from the day I was arrested on March 6, 2009, I was in front of a judge for about 3,000 hours today, I repeat the number, 3,000 hours. However, since the first day I appeared before the judge, there has been no new evidence about me, no secret or open witness. The court's answer to that, when the evidence is proven that they have no legal value through experts, is that we will decide in the period of judgment. Twenty-two months since I was elected MP. For the first time in our country's history, eight MPs are in prison. The unsolved murders have kept Turkey's agenda busy for many years, and many have yet to be solved. We've got another very serious problem like this one these days, and it's cold cases. Yeah, we got a problem like that now. People can be locked up for years with a simple digital message that doesn't know where they're from, or unexplainable, and they can be accused of things they don't deserve. How can domestic peace be found in such an environment? Congressman, I salute all of you with respect and love from Silivri, where the law is not negotiated, where the national will is at the back of the bars, not behind bars, but on the parliamentary stand, where there is peace and silence. My dear friends, I would like to make a request to the judges here at Silivri, to the judges under your rule, to quote a verdict from the Supreme Court: to the judge, to the people, to the nature, to the truth, to the normal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now I ask all of you, where is the smell of man in Silivri? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0003par0032	Thank you. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu, who asked for the appointment of 8 March World Women's Day. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0004par0037	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on March 8th, Women's Day. I salute you all, the High Council. The World Women's Day began when the United Nations declared the 8th of March as World Women's Day by allowing the world to accept it when it was an act to gain the rights of working women. What do women in the world want? Women want to experience all rights within the framework of basic rights and freedoms, what human beings can give to a human being, as women. Women want all of this to happen to them financially, politically, psychologically. Well, my deputies, don't you think women have that question? Yeah, women don't have them. If women had these rights, they wouldn't have raised the voice of women all over the world today, for that reason, for women's rights and freedoms. So, what should we do? I mean, it's not just in Turkey, it's for women all over the world. Women are talking about it all over the world. So what's the bottom line? I think there's basically education, fundamentally a change of mind. Of course, there are fundamental laws, but laws that are made against women, domestic violence, women being pushed back into the economic plan, and women getting their women's rights in a society that is not paid the same. Then I think education and other than that is the basis of the whole thing. The law is never capable of correcting them as if they were stabbed with a knife. Being a woman, especially in some societies, doesn't mean being a woman is selling to an 80-year-old grandfather like a sheep. Being a woman doesn't mean being snored there when she goes to the police station. Being a woman doesn't mean seeing violence from his wife or father. That's what women want out of it. Congressmans, of course we're the lucky ones here in this community. Man or woman, everyone here is a representative of the community. It's not just the law, it's the people we're in the area where we're supposed to tell them. No doubt the customs and customs are extraordinarily powerful, not the law, but as impressive as the law is on society. Then it is never, ever possible for us to accept them blindly because they are in the law and custom. That's why women want their rights, women seek their rights, and especially, as the ruling party -- we, the minister in charge of women and families, Fatma Şahin -- is making a lot of effort, but the effort is not very effective unless there's a change of mind. I'm one of those people who believes the media will be very effective here. There's been news in the media for two days: there's 77 people in a women's shelter where there should be 25 people, and women are in very difficult conditions. I'd like to ask, where are the men, where are the wives, where are the fathers, where are the men who put the 77 women where they should be? And those women are there with their children. And she will go there and have her children, and where will she be? ▪ Won't they ask a human? My esteemed representatives, women's Rights Day and women's rights to change them in Turkey and in the world are seeking to become human, to become women, and therefore to seek their rights and freedom in society. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0005par0047	Thank you. Mr. Dağoglu, by the way, the male MPs applauded strongly. I think it's clear that there's a change of mind.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0004par0049	I swear to God, Mr. President, these talks are supposed to be held in a man's environment, not a woman's, because it's already a man's problem.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0005par0050	I agree, so I pointed out that the male MPs applauded a lot. Yes, the third non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilt, who asked about the sale of coals at Garp Lineit Enterprises. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0006par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you and all of our fellow citizens who follow us. In the public opinion, we have a very important business which is known simply as the GLlI (GLI) and is producing in production areas within the district of Kütahya Province of Rabbit, the Ilçbilek production area and the Ilçü Management Directorate within the province of Ishkünya and the Directorate of the Business Management of Bursa Liniyets. In 2012, a total of 6.3 million tonnes of sedimentary coal was produced in the company's Bronzebilek production area; a total of 3.8 million tons of soldable coal was sold around 3.6 million tonnes. For this purpose, a capacitor was built for 42 million cubic metres. There are still 4,539 people in the business. In 2013, our company aims to produce a total of 4,150,000 tonnes of sellable coal. One of the most important economic and employment institutions in our province, GLI, unfortunately has often come to the attention of some allegations of corruption and corruption in coal sales over the past decade. In the past period, we've moved some of the issues back to the council and we've all been looking for solutions. I don't want to get into them, but despite all our warnings and efforts, unfortunately, some irregularities continue by changing shapes in the same business. Today, I'd like to share with you a new example of corruption in coal sales in the business that's been held in the name of the business, with official documents. This is a subject of damage to the state in the sale of dust coal to industrial companies by loading larger coals into trucks or cars of interest instead of coal. The lignite coal produced in this business is sold to industry companies and to markets after it has been washed in lava and classified according to its genre. The shipment of sold coals is also provided by trucks or wagons. From these sold coals, the shade of coal is 0.5-18 millimeters -- at August 2012, I say -- sold for about 183 Turkish liras, including VAT, and the volume of coals known as 10-18 or +18 is sold for 307 TL. So there's an average price difference between the two groups per 125 pounds. Here is the basis of the irregularity. I'd like to share with you some official documents that the government has been seriously damaged by the shipment of other coals into cars instead of the 0.5-18-millimeter powder sold to industrial companies -- or mixed with it -- instead of coals. In particular, these documents are found in the cantar notes in the car report. I'll give an example for just a few of them: the report date is September 12, 2012. The coal load is 1,303 tons. Car names: 9 S's. I share a note from the cantarist, including EXP and 17, which was loaded with broken coal -- 10 to 18 millimeters and +18 millimeters. I reported it to the shift sergeant. Report date 13/9/2012. I'm just reading the cantarist's notes from now on: there's no +18 in broken coal wrapped in the valleys, 10-18 and +18. A wagon passed empty. The note in the September 15th report: I informed the sergeant when the coals were too big. That's the no. There's no company name on the car. IU has been written to ask the station. Let's check it out. The note in the September 17th report: despite all warnings, cars are wrapped as 18,50 and 10-18, instead of 0.5-18. Cars have 75% plus 18% yellow. There are many such notes. Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, this is a matter that we all really need to go on, and given that the average amount of money is wrapped up in 1,000 tons per ton a day and 150 euros is being taken out of the pocket of the state and transferred into someone else's pocket, we all have a lot of responsibilities. I'm calling on Mr. Secretary of State and the D.A.'s office. It means we're going to pursue this and we're not going to let it go until the end, and I salute you all again. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I'll pass these documents on to the Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0007par0070	In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner Yıldız, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0008par0072	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about Mr. Alim before you take up too much of your time. Of course, the Garp Linyits Museum is one of Turkey's rarest institutions, which has served for a very long time, and these coals, which we call the "GELI Linets" are used for three purposes. One, it can be used in thermal plants, it can be used in industry and it can be used in heating. Now, the rules of these are clear, where the coal will be used, and the specs are specific, the sulfur values are precise, the sulfur values are precise, the size of them. The coals produced for heating purposes are part-quality, +18 millimetres and a special burn system, including coals between 10 and 18 millimeters burned in stocked systems, and these coals are in accordance with the regulations published by our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The sale of this coal has been held since 2004 and is held with the franchise system. In this case, between 10 and 18 millimetres of coal sold from our institution are around 122.727 tonnes. The price of sale at the beginning of January is 260 TL/tons, or, as the MP mentioned, sold at 307/TL VAT. The price of sale at the beginning of January is 260 TL, and the amount of +18 millimetres of coal is around 662 thousand tonnes, and the price of our sale is still valued at the same price, including poor families. The coals used in industry are used between 0.5 and 10 millimetres referred to as dust, especially in our industrial facilities and other institutions, including cement factories. It is not permitted by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to use these coals in the heating sector, so it is being controlled by our institution and is not being sold to the heating sector. In this case, about 1.2 million tonnes have been sold, and this costs 155 euros plus VAT. In terms of the production and sale of coals to both the heating sector and the industrial sector, there is no shortage in our institution, and almost all demands are met. I want to make it very clear that our citizens or industrialists will not have any trouble because of the age of our Seyitömer establishment, which provides a small amount of coal to the industrial sector by warming and selling about 100,000 tons of coal per year. Now, as for what our congressman is talking about, they have their limits. If there's a glitch due to the procedure, I'm calling the same thing, and the prosecution needs to file a complaint, and we need to process it. We're on the side of all of our honest employees, and we're against all of our dishonest staff, but none of this needs to get mixed up. So if there's a problem with any of the practice, any of our managers, who's failing to do their job at the time, of course, we'll look into it. This is not only our civic duty, but also our responsibility to govern. So if any of these coals that we refer to as broken coal, or what we refer to as nut coals, or what we call them, are caused by any trouble from cantars, fillings, unloading, or any other point -- we call them the problems that come from incompatible, of course -- we go to them. I'm suggesting that this matter be investigated by both inspection and relevant units. If our congressman asks, if he approves, there's no harm in pressing charges against the prosecution. We run a very large business with 81 thousand staff, from Edirne to Kars, from Sinop to Hatay. We're trying to work with our solid human tissue. If there are abusers, I want to make it clear that we will not tolerate them in any way, nor will we tolerate them in any way. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0009par0080	Thank you. I'll give you my word on the 60th article. The group's deputy presidents first. Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0010par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, our İzmir MP Mustafa Balbay has completed his fourth year of imprisonment in Silivri Prison where he has been arrested today, entering the fifth year. Five BDP MPs, arrested not only Mustafa Balbay but Mehmet Haberal, Engin Alan and TK, are currently in prison. Eight MPs from the 24th term of the Turkish Grand National Assembly are currently under arrest. It's a shame about democracy. The judgment, which must pave the way for freedoms, is now an obstacle to freedoms in this process. It is Parliament's duty to overcome this problem, to pave the way for freedoms, to remove obstacles to freedoms. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is the duty of living in a place where the judiciary interprets the laws in its own way. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0011par0091	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0012par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Today's fire in Ankara, I say to our citizens, the tradesmen who are burning their businesses, God forbid. Our government, our government, will surely pay for the damage. Let them not feel empty, helpless, nor suffer any more. Second thing: there was another misdemeanor about law 2/B here yesterday. In the forest and the edge of the land used by peasants, the 2/B land is again paid for by peasants. As the National Movement Party, we demand that the land of 2/B used in the forest and the edge of the village be given free and returned to the disposable owners of the land that the state has caused in the cancellation cases. If the law is corrected this way, it will be justified, it will be fair, and the tyranny of the state will be removed from our people and our peasants. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0013par0097	I'll make a promise to the first 10 MPs according to Article 60. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0014par0100	Mr. President, thank you. I protest once again the arrest of Mr. Mustafa Balbay and the other MPs. Unfortunately, this House is a Parliament unlike any other parliament in the world. His members -- eight members -- are in prison as prisoners. That shame belongs to everyone in this House, but most of all it belongs to the people who held those MPs captive. Mr. President, the AKP has arranged for Malatya-Kurecik to create a missile shield system to protect Israel by hiding it from the public. As Malatya MP, I applied to the State Department, the Ministry of National Defence, the Chief of Staff, the Pentagon, and the NATO Secretary General to enter the base, but I was denied my request every time. Recently, the representative of the U.S. gun lobby entered a base that a US citizen MP could not enter. I condemn the opening of the doors to the lawmakers to an arms dealer.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0015par0103	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0016par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words -- Mustafa Balbay has completed his fourth year -- I wish all lawmakers to join the legislature in Parliament. In Artvin, one of Artvin's most important publishing sites is 08HABER. Artvin is not aware of the official website of the Ministry of National Education in schools and other institutions of the National National Education Directorate. This site is ill-advised when the address is clicked. Because of its content, the Ministry of National Education has been blocked by Turkish TELEKOM ASI. I ask you this: 08HABER is the local newspaper of Artvin. It is a publishing body that continues to report on the interests and future of Artvin, which is newsworthy and deeply concerned with the public. I wonder what's the right reason for this kind of obstruction. We expect the Ministry of National Education to answer the following questions. On what grounds was the combooking site considered forbidden content? What are the disturbing news, writing, and articles in its contents? Based on what court order, the 08HABER newspaper has been denied access? That's...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0018par0112	Mr. President, my condolences to the Venezuelan people and to the people of Venezuela for the death of Venezuelan President Chavez. Today in the House, there were families whose children died suspiciously in the barracks. They called them suicides for their children. In each one's story, there are elements that make these deaths suspicious. False statements led families to the quest for justice. They don't trust the current military trial. Their joint assessment is that their children were killed because of opposition, Alevi, because they were Kurds. Whether the real reasons are hostility, a war environment, an army hierarchy that corrupts psychology, they need to be revealed. The death of a thousand soldiers in ten years should be more than a warning. Discipline, mandatory military service, inflicts heavy damage on those who serve in military service. Finally, the soldier who went mad in Siirt Pervari has shot three of his friends. The Parliament's Human Rights Commission should conduct a serious investigation into these deaths that have become a public problem. In the same way...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0019par0117	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0020par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Turkish agriculture continues to suffer. The farmer's rescuer was banks and agricultural loan co-operatives, which had failed with AKP's wrong policies. However, the recent execution of agricultural loan cooperatives has resulted in hundreds of acres of land in Osmaniye, Kadirli, and hundreds of farmers in Düzçi. Houses are being performed, farms, tractors, equipment. The Minister of Agriculture is expecting help in this matter from the government, our farmer, and I want to announce it. On the other hand, 905 members of the Toscelik company in the Organised Industrial Region of Osmaniye have registered with the RICO Union, and this union has earned the right to sign up. In the past month of Ramadan and these days, Toscelik's company has unfortunately laid off workers in order to lose that right to the RICO. I'd like to invite the Minister of Labor and Social Security on duty.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0021par0123	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0022par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Yunus Emre Shopping Centre in the District of Altındağ, Ankara, my hand was burned in an accident. All assets of the 685 tradesmen burned to the ground. The local tradesman is miserable, desperate and confused. My condolences to all our citizens, and may God never show these people such fires again. The truth about the fire's exit must be revealed immediately. There are about 50 million euros of damage. Citizens are caught off guard by the fire. Citizens don't have the money to pay for their daily expenses. Citizens must receive cash assistance immediately. The Yunus Emre Mall must immediately be declared a disaster zone, and citizens' tax debts must be postponed. With the compensation of the damages of the citizens, the burning buildings of the tradesman must begin immediately. The municipality must not take advantage of the opportunity to use the location of the burning mall for other purposes. I would like to call on all the authorities, especially the government, for the urgent needs of the corrupt tradesman. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0023par0129	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0024par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Times Higher Education explains 100 of the world's highest-profile universities every year. This year, only one university from the most Muslim population has been able to enter this list, Middle East Technical University. No one says, "What kind of a student is this? What kind of president is this? What kind of administration is this?" If that's how these teachers train their students, shame on them, we don't need that kind of teacher. The Middle East Technical University he insulted. I think the cover of the Times Higher Education Report, where ODTÜ is represented as one of the best 60 universities in the world, is the best response to the Prime Minister's insults. I hope the Prime Minister reads this cover and the messages behind it correctly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0025par0135	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0026par0137	Thank you, Mayor. Despite many reminders, the government did not hear us for ten years, and in the 11th year of Cyprus, when the Greeks found gas in the sea, the AKP noticed the situation. They bought a foreign seismic ship that could search for oil and natural gas in our seas, and named it "Barbaros." The AKP, which did not support the domestic ship project in 2007, did not receive a fully equipped ship for $80m in 2009, said the AKP had paid $130m for this ship, and with this seismic research ship, there would be seismic searches in the Black Sea, then in the Mediterranean. Why did you wait ten years? These days, TPAO and Shell signed the Western Black Sea Deep Sea Search and Production Agreement. Will Barbaros, our newly acquired native vessel, be used in seismic search of our seas as part of the agreement with Shell? Will Turkey make the seismic call?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0027par0141	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0028par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Monday, we visited our Istanbul MP, Engin Alan, with fellow lawmakers in Sincan Prison. Engin Pasha stands tall in the dignity of the Turkish Armed Forces. It's the time when traitors are out there, heroes are in jail, but the Turkish nation will not forgive any mistakes made. The killer in the Imralı is given the right to build a library, while our heroic soldiers are given 10 books at the most, and we protest. He says justice must be served, heroes must be released immediately, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0029par0146	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0030par0148	Mr. President, thank you. Our congressman, Mustafa Balbay, has been in a persecution facility for four years. Those who wait for him to surrender are in vain. All hail those who resist democracy. Members of parliament, the report on education published by public homes from 17 December 2012 to 17 January 2013 shows that the physical conditions of the schools are considerable. In 20 percent of schools, the library and laboratory, 70 per cent of the gym, almost all of them have no health rooms or paramedics. 80 per cent of schools do not have adequate cleaning staff, while 40 per cent do not fit the disabled. Similar troubles reach my side. Finally, I received information that there were not hundreds of cleaning staff at the Pashabahçe Elementary School in Beykoz, the Pendik Pineçashme Elementary School, the Ataşehir Barbaros neighborhood, the Uzel Elementary School, the Rabia Leman Elementary School. Our students, who read under tight and negative circumstances, are in danger of a major epidemic.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0031par0152	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0032par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we'll discuss the energy market. I'm saying that once we know the renewable energy sources against nuclear power plants, hydroelectric plants and fossil fuels, we should be in the defense of using it in every field. In addition, these days, when we celebrate March 8th World Laboring Women's Day, the male must overcome the dominant mentality... I invite everyone, especially the House, to stand behind democratic, ecological, sexist liberalism.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0033par0158	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Base stations are set up to provide coverage for mobile phones. When cell towers set up by GSM networks see intense reactions from the public, GSM companies struggle to overcome this problem with different tactics and solutions. Tree shape, clock tower, CCTV... Different figures include mosques, hospitals, schools, playgrounds, or installations. The base stations, which cause some kind of environmental pollution called electromagnetic pollution, are suggested to have caused brain tumors, such as leukemia, and are widely described as the most important cause of cancer. It is said in public that cancer diseases and deaths related to it are increasing every day. GSM corporations' purely profit-indicted policies are causing people to build up a deep level of anger. In order to reduce human health damage and loss of life, to show that they are with patients financially and spiritually, it is important that GSM companies have an approach to research cancer for a percentage of their profits, and to transfer them to NGOs for treatment of cancer patients. However, it is not known whether they have such thoughts or efforts. "No service is as important as human life. In other words, in response to a useful service, the death of a human being cannot be accepted as an acceptable result, it cannot be considered a right approach to a human life-threatening service in front of a person and a life-threatening human being." Despite this decision adopted by the Supreme Court, however, cell towers continue to stand within living areas. As such stations are set up, they must ask permission from citizens who live within the residential area as they are set up. Although many settlements were not permitted, cell towers continued to be planted. Article 56/1 of the Constitution says, "Everyone has the right to a healthy environment." it is said. Article 56/2 of the Constitution is "It is the duty of the state and citizens to prevent pollution and health of the environment." It's called. Although constitutional decisions, laws, regulations are above them, the continued service and installation of cell towers in places where people live intensively is causing serious reactions and causing people to worry. It is surprising, on the other hand, that despite the age limitation of alcohol and cigarettes in the sale and use of cigarettes, such restrictions and warnings are not made for mobile phones, although there is a warning that cigarette packets are harmful to health. The age of cell phone use is getting smaller and more abundant. These devices, which emit extremely harmful radiation to humans and environments, should be used in such a way as threatening human life and not allowed to be fooled by the public. In light of all these data and analyses, especially the negative effects of cell towers to health should be detected and information pollution should be stopped. After that, the conditions for the removal of cell towers outside the residential areas must be investigated and the necessary arrangements must be made. In addition, children need to be investigated for what arrangements can be made so that they do not use cell phones, and they need to be presented to public knowledge. Therefore, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 99, 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Administration. [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzincan]] 5) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 6) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Hilal Kaplan (Alexeli) [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Throughout history, the first known exploitation and oppression began with the work department based on gender discrimination, and eventually turned into a suppression of female labor and her body. This system, also called the patriarchal system, is the main reason why women have been subjected to prosecution for thousands of years. In time, there have been various transformations, but in working life, the inequality between men and women has increased. In addition to the development of productive forces, new economic models and working life and changes in cultural norms did not prevent this inequality from strengthening. The issue of women's participation in the labour force and employment is one of the most important social and social problems in Turkey, as in the entire world. Women's participation in the labor force in our country has been falling since the 1950s. Women who were heavily employed as free family workers in the agricultural sector in the 1950s, especially since the late 1990s, were unable to become part of the business force in the cities as a result of speeding policies and migration. Women's employment rates in our country are extremely low compared to EU countries. Only one of the four working-year-old women in Turkey join the labour force, 14 per cent of those involved in the labour force face unemployment problems, most women work without social security and are discriminated against. Women's participation in the labour force in Turkey (the proportion of unemployed women to non-institutional women) dropped from 36.2% in 1989 to 30 per cent by 1999 and less than 25 per cent by 2009. So in the last 20 years, women's participation in the labor force has decreased by 28%. In 1989, women's employment rate (the rate of women who are employed to work age) dropped to 32.7 per cent in 1989, by 1999 to 27.7 per cent, while by 2009 to 22.3 per cent. So in the last 20 years, women's employment rate has decreased by 31.8%. Another issue as important as employment is the conditions under which employment is provided. Today, one of the four women who work for wages or wages is employed in the form of informational (unspecified) employment. When we look at employment areas, gender inequality is evident. Meanwhile, the European Union, which we are trying to become a member of, aims to increase women's employment rate to 60 per cent, as determined in the Lisbon strategy, while lowering it to 23 per cent in Turkey, shows the need to be at the centre of women's employment policies in our country. The study of employment data, according to trade groups, shows that in our country, the gender-based work department is under way. As of 2009, 50% of women work in agricultural-animal jobs and unqualified jobs, while men remain at 27.6%. In men, it is 12.1 per cent, with 3.1 per cent in women's employment for decisions and practices, such as senior management and management. The percentage of professional professionals in women's employment is 10.1 per cent, while it is 5.7 per cent for men. The higher share of women's employment in this profession is the result of the concentration of education in women's workforce in professions such as teaching, medicine, law enforcement, accounting. Meanwhile, the European Union, which we are trying to become a member of, aims to increase women's employment rate to 60 per cent, as determined in Lisbon's strategy, while in Turkey, the decline of that rate to 23 per cent shows the need to be at the centre of women's employment policies in our country. Turkey is among the countries in which ILO signed contracts 100, 111, 122 and 142. On February 10, 2009, Lisbon signed the "National Respected Business Programme" agreement. With this signature, it is agreed in the general framework of the ILO to increase the equality and employment of men and women. In this framework, in order to ensure that women will take steps to prevent professional and social discrimination from being equal in each part of society, and in every area of society, to prevent gender and social discrimination from taking part in decision-making mechanisms, to be encouraged and supported by women's initiatives, undersigned by the ILO's "National Respected Business Programme" (ILO) to meet the requirements of the agreement text, and to ensure that women's employment is granted to 50 per cent of the EU's average, "The 98th and 10th article on the basis of the 10th article and 10th article and 10th of its access to the Parliament, and we submit to the Constitution. With all due respect. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] 8) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 12) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 13) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 21) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 22) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the need to open Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105 of our Constitution 98th, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, in order to determine the potential of tourism in the province of Adana and to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems that have been taken. 02.02.2012 [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kütahya]] [[Sakarya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] 17) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Lug]] [[Slap]] 20) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] Adana is located on the Seyhan River in Çukurova, south of the Toros Mountains. About 100 miles [100 km] off the Mediterranean coast, Adana is on important roads connecting Europe to Asia. East to Osmaniye 90 km, Hatay 190 km, northeast to Kahramanmarash 187 km, north to Kayseri 332 km, northwest to Niğde 205 km, west to inner 70 km. The land and railway connection to the Middle East is made through Adana. This connection is made in the Toros through the Gulp Straits. The city is 49 per cent mountain, 23 per cent plateau and 27 per cent plain and plain. As we go north from the south, we reach the Toros, and the height is over 2,500 meters. The foothills of the Toros take a lowland shape toward the Mediterranean. The rivers Seyhan and Ceyhan, born in Central Anatolia, flow to the Mediterranean. At the top of the Toros Mountains, there are seven lakes. There are lakes of Seyhan and Çakhan dams on the Seyhan River, lakes of Aslantaş on the Ceyhan River, lakes of Akyatan and Aghatan bird in Karataş. ==Early life==The Kingdom of Luvi (a branch of the Hitlers), the Kingdom of Arzava 1500-333 B.C.E., the Kingdom of Hitler, the Kingdom of 1190-713 B.C.E., the Kingdom of Kue (Friglers), the Kingdom of Luvi (a branch of the Hitlers), the Kingdom of Luvi (a branch of the Hitlers), the Kingdom of Arzava (a group of separate from the Hitites), the year 333-323rd-1333 Selökidlers, the period of the Karsuns, the year 178-112-638 B.C.C.E.E., the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Ottoman Empire, 663-612-612 Cilicia, the Kingdom of the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire of the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the Ottoman Empire of the Ottoman Empire of the Ottoman Empire, was liberated of the Ottoman Empire of the Ottoman Empire. So throughout history, he has witnessed ten separate and great civilizations, 18 different political structures. The delta of Seyhan and Ceyhan rivers dates back to 6,000 B.C.E., with the history of Adana, the geographical location of the fertile wetlands. Adana is one of the most important cities in the ancient Cilicia region. From the Hitites to the Ottomans, it is the cradle of many ancient civilizations. According to Greek mythology, it was named after Adanus, son of Uranus, the god of heaven. It was built on the banks of the Seyhan (Sarus) River, which had been poured out into the Mediterranean by the plains of Toros. The Tepestle mound, located at the heart of Adana, belongs to the neolithic period in which mankind was established. It is one of the world's oldest settlements dating back to 6,000 B.C.E. When Adana was the center of the Kingdom of Kiznuwatna, she was part of the Hitit Federation in the 1350 BC. 9th century B.C.E. And the Assyrians, the 7th century B.C.E. And it's in Iranian hands. In 333 BC, Adana, who hosted Alexander the Great and his army, was taken into the hands of Macedonians after the Battle of Issos and after Alexander's death. When our Adana province, which hosts many civilizations, sees the necessary attention in cultural tourism, it is not even sincere to have a major tourist destination. The main historical settlements include Anavarza (Komana), Sharköy (Komana), Mizis (Yakapınar), Magarsos (Athena Temple), Ayas (Aigaiai), Akören (Aikuren), Sirkeli Höyük, Ceyhan-Sirkeli Muvatttali Kabar, the site of Kastaba for centuries. About 100 miles [100 km] off the Mediterranean coast, Adana has not achieved enough success in summer tourism with such a long coastline. According to the latest data, the number of local and foreign tourists hosted in 2010 is 494,687. If you look at the number of local, foreign tourists and citizens coming for work, there is a very low figure in the Mediterranean and Aegean provinces, which have other coastlines. The province of Adana, which failed to receive public investments expected during the AKP administrations, which has ruled our country on its own since 2003, did not receive the necessary assistance from the special administration in 2011. In other words, the province of Adana, as in other areas, has been forgotten by AKP governments in tourism investments. For reasons revealed above, it is necessary to open "Meclis research" to determine the potential of the province of Adana for tourism and its problems and to determine measures to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday, 06.03.2013 (today), since our group cannot meet, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly of the 19th Amendment. On February 20, 2013, the Parliamentary Research Council, given by İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends (2656 rows), was proposed to be read in the same-date jointly in the following motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, in order to investigate "the application differences between women and men's employment." In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Istanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0034par0346	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to make a motion to investigate as the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you know, it's March 8th. March 8th, World Laboring Women's Day. This day is celebrated as a day of struggle both in many countries and in our country. In particular, this demand for equal wages, which began in the United States in 1957, is actually 100 years this year -- a battle that has been going on for a hundred years. For a hundred years, women have been fighting for equality, freedom and democracy. On this occasion, we actually downloaded this motion. In particular, to re-open the demand for equal pay for equal employment, we propose that we investigate how, in fact, there are problems with the employment of this woman. We hope this will be accepted here today. Although our wish is never accepted, let's start by expressing it. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers -- thousands of women in the field today -- are again on the street demanding equal labor, equal pay, violence against women, democracy, equality. In particular, this year's Democratic Free Women's Movement is our way to the residents from Rosa, our struggle. There are rallies that the Democratic Women's Movement has started with its slogan, and every day it has its women's agenda, in some way, to publicize it. Once again, I salute, respectfully, all women involved in the women's struggle, especially the Democratic Free Women's Movement, which is on the street today, and celebrate World Women's Day on March 8th. Of course, we have women friends who can't be on the streets today. With women, we actually have friends in prison who are fighting for equality and freedom, but who are now within four walls. In particular, Kurdish women are under much more pressure in the political struggle. Today, nearly 500 of our friends, who are with us in politics, who are fighting for freedom for women, are now in prison. From here, our MPs, Mr. Selma River, Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, and Mr. Fatma Surkan, who spoke a lot on this bench last semester, I would like to convey our respect and love to all the women who are in prison because of the struggle for equality and freedom. Dear friends, we have expressed many times on this stand the violence against women, the women's employment problems, the women's demands for equality. Each time -- in fact, every political party -- had a lot of debate about this, including these issues -- about how we could find a solution to this. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we believe that the women's issue is not just the issue of a political party, it's a matter above politics, it has to be dealt with like this. Because women make up half the society in the world. If women make up half of society, there is no way to solve problems in a society where half of society is not seen, ignored, not equal. We've underlined this every time, and we're benefiting from drawing it once again, and so we're saying once again that all political parties have to act as partners in women's policies, that this is important for our future. Many laws have been passed in this House, many speeches have been made, but our problems still haven't been resolved. There are still only 78 percent women, or 14 percent women, of the 550 MPs in this parliament, and still only 27 percent of the nearly 3,000 mayors in this country are women. Again, when you look at the top management, there are no women, there's only one female minister in the Council of Ministers. Even when you look at this whole painting, we still have a lot of ground to cover as women. Again, let's say that the violence against the woman was signed here on March 8th last year in particular, and all political parties approved the Istanbul Convention on this matter. We said this is very important. After that, there was a law against preventing violence against women, and we cared about that, but women still couldn't get away from being slaughtered, the violence against women didn't go away. Even in January, 18 women were subjected to violence, murdered by men, so 18 women were killed, hundreds tortured. It's called torture, not violence. There's a reason for all this. The reason for all of this: the mentality, as we have repeatedly expressed on this stand, is that unless you see men and women as equal, unfortunately, this violence will continue. The situation of the woman in the field of employment is now 30 per cent in Turkey, which will continue, as long as you condemn women to the inside of the family. In addition, studies show that the more women give birth to children, the more they are left behind from employment, so even when you express employment according to the rate of childbearing, we see once again how negative it is for women. Now, the esteemed MPs, look, the AKP government has set up anti-violence centers, the KOZA (KoZA), which Mr. Minister Fatma Şahin has opened with ceremonies such as these, we are doing very well in the public. Now, you're looking at this, it doesn't solve problems again. What did he do? Women have struggled for years, whether it's the prevention centers or the areas where women will apply, it's a very important development. But the AKP government took it and centralized it. Local governments now have no autonomy, everything will be central, all information will be central, will decide all things centrally. Women's organizations don't even have a say in this. It's causing other problems. Women's organizations remain, which they object to. It was opened as KOZA, and they are objecting to SOCIMs, so it's not the opening of these centers, it's the logic, it's the logic of how these centers are opened. This does not prevent violence against women, nor does it cause serious problems about the future of women who suffer from violence. We're reminiscing all of this on March 8th. In particular, we call on women MPs in the AKP government: Precious MPs, I did it, I did it. The approach is not acceptable. We want to offer our contribution, and we've really been working on violence against women for years, and we've been fighting for years, and we've come to an important point with women organizations. Then let's do this together. Now, there's a structure where women's organisations get their opinions, but when the law comes to the process of building, or when it comes to practice, women are out of it. That's not an acceptable point. Besides, it doesn't give us anything, it makes us lose. We'd like to underline that once again. So now, if we remember the 8th of March once again, if we're celebrating, let's remember that this is a way to fight. For example, we, the women of the BDP, have made a motion that they should be given a paid vacation on March 8th -- in a country close to 40 -- as a vacation -- but the AKP government did not even take it on the agenda. We've also expressed to Mr. Fatma Şahin. We've signed the Istanbul Convention last year -- this year we'll take a holiday on March 8th to present a gift to the women, if we're really in favor of women's struggle. There's no application on this subject. Moreover, there have been some objections, such as that of another discrimination. However, women face so much discrimination in this system that women's discrimination is not seen at all, so that one day the matter of women being on vacation is being prevented from being discriminated against. This is a very serious problem, and we want to underline it once again. It makes us very happy that, despite everything, women are standing on the street, despite everything, fighting for equality and freedom, and they're going to win it. The gains that have come to this day are very important, and we care about them very much. Of course, he's facing pressure against it. For example, in the matter of drawing attention to violence against women, the 23 women acted in front of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in Çakaloğlu. They were beaten and taken into custody, and they were subjected to violence at the police station. So a ministry that says it's against violence actually turns its own voice down by using other violence on women. The main reason for all these practices is to look at women's politics from where they stand. So we can't throw away the political violence on women. Today, thousands of women in Turkey are actually exposed to political violence under military control -- the judicial body of another state at work -- because they are fighting for equality and freedom because they object. And we want to underline this once again: if we are against violence, we must be against violence. We will not eliminate violence unless we do so, we will not increase employment in the field of women unless we do so, and women will not change their place in society. As a result, I would like to point out that it is not possible for a society to be free if a woman is not free. In Turkey, therefore, the level of democracy and freedom... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in relation to the woman's level of freedom, I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0035par0366	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Alderman Mesut Dedeoğlu against the Peace and Democracy Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows]] A hero's match. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0036par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the proposal of a group regarding her employment. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, government and economic policies in our country continue to negatively affect all sectors. Thousands of people lose their jobs every day and can't bring bread home. People who don't work have to leave their villages and migrate to major cities in hopes of finding new jobs. These people who migrate to cities are condemned to live under the border of hunger and poverty. Of course, it's not easy to find jobs for these people who migrate to cities. Most of the people who have to work for a short time are trying to survive with government assistance. The ever-changing social order and the circumstances that it has brought to our country have greatly affected the family's position. Life is almost forced to take part in the business world and work for low wages. Even though women have become more active in economic and social areas in Turkey since the 1980s, this is not enough. Women's employment in our country, unfortunately, is not enough. The official figures make that clear. According to State Staff Office data, only 850,203 of the 2,194,598 people working in general and private budgetary institutions work as female staff. In our country, the number of top female bureaucrats is very limited. There's hardly any female undersecretary in our country. Women's participation in the labour force is very low in Turkey. It's only because of the wrong policies that have been implemented so far. In the private sector, however, a large number of Turkish women are successfully able to be chairman and manager of the board. We believe this success will also be successful in public institutions and organizations. The first steps in this matter must be taken regarding education and the full participation of girls in education must be ensured. In particular, girls in rural areas have failed to reach education and education at the desired level, despite all efforts. Women are therefore outnumbered by men in both education and employment. Mr. President, the valued MPs are men and women, 50.2 per cent of the total population of Turkey. I mean, the male population and the female population are almost identical. According to our population, the distribution of men and women is in this way, while women's participation in the labour force in Turkey is one-third as high as the male's participation in the labour force. At this point today, economic and social problems have increased in our country. In 2010, the number of divorces in our country, which was 34,862 in 2000, unfortunately increased to 118,568. There's been an increase in suicides in our country. According to TÜİK data, the number of suicides occurred in the year 2000 as 1,802 -- again, unfortunately -- has increased to 2,933. In recent years in Turkey, the number of homes of children, house of love, foster homes, foster homes, caring houses, women's guest houses has been constantly increasing. The number of people living under the border of hunger and poverty in our country has been increasing steadily. All of the minimum wage and most of the pensioners are condemned by the government to live below the poverty line. All these developments have also increased the violence against the woman, as it has damaged the Turkish family structure. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, the wrong policies imposed by the government in economic and social areas have caused major damage in many parts of the community. In the Turkish family structure, which sets an example for the entire world -- unfortunately today -- we have to say that the violence against the woman is increasing. Violence against women in our country can also be done financially and socially, as is seen physically. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has conducted research on domestic violence against women in over 24,000 counties. According to this study, 39 per cent of women across Turkey have been exposed to at least once in their life to physical violence, 23 per cent to economic violence, 44 per cent to emotional and psychological violence. The study found that 56 per cent of women with low levels of education were exposed to violence, while women with high school and upper secondary school graduates were also subjected to violence. In families where the level of prosperity has dropped, the woman's exposure to violence is 50 percent. The lower the prosperity levels, the greater the violence. Violence against women in our country is constantly increasing. Violence against women in our country has now turned into murder, and we feel that it must be prevented by the government, and necessary measures must be taken. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, women are sometimes driven to suicide according to the extent of the violence. The physical and spiritual dimension of violence has a negative effect on the individual, the family, and the entire community. According to the study in Turkey, 18% of married women are still being beaten by their wives in villages. 57.7 percent of women are exposed to violence on the first day of their marriage, and 90 percent of domestic crime is committed against women in our country. Therefore, governments should focus on improving prosperity in their economic and social policies, but unfortunately we haven't seen it yet. The arrangement and practices that will affect society and family structure in a negative way must be avoided and will cause its anxiety tomorrow. The migration from villages to the city must be avoided. Women's guesthouses, shelters need to be increased and co-ordinated with relevant institutions. Women's employment must be weighed down in public and in the private sector. She must be appointed as a manager and contribute greatly to the country's economy. The woman who leaves the women's guesthouses and shelters must be allowed to live independently by state means. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0037par0390	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Ayşe Nedret Akova of Balıkesir. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0038par0393	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak in favor of the CHP Group regarding the BDP group proposal. I salute the High Council. First of all, I celebrate March 8th World Laboring Women's Day. In violation of human rights, the most fundamental injustice of gender is applied to women. The inequality of employment, promotions and wages is the common problem of women living in different societies and cultures, regardless of income and education. In the work done to create awareness of gender equality, in this regard, women's employment needs to be boosted, women's economic strengthening. In order to change the woman's position in the family, to compensate for the inequality between men and women in macroeconomic policies, women need to be reduced and women need to be financially strengthened. For this purpose, more effective tools should be developed to increase women's employment. In working life, measures should be taken to prevent inequal practices against women in wages and promotions, allowing women to participate more actively in working life. On 25 May 2010, no progress has been made in this issue, despite a regulation on improving women's employment and ensuring the equality of opportunities, published in the Official Gazette. There is no economic strengthening of the woman, unless she is locked up in the house and changes the mentality of giving birth to at least three children. In our country, the male participation rate for 2012 was 71 per cent, while women's participation in the labour force was 29.5 per cent. In the European Union, the woman's participation in the labour force is around 63%. In 2012, 17 million men were employed, while 8 million 192,000 women were employed. In our country, the number of women who are able to work was identified as 27 million,73,000, while only 8 million 192,000 women were represented as labor forces. Although there are many women of the age who can work, women's workforce is seen as low, unemployment is not fully reflected in statistics. In 2012, women's unemployment rate was 10.8 per cent, while men's unemployment rate was 8.5 per cent. The lack of healthy data for a woman's labor force also conceals how poor she is financially. According to the 2010 Profit Construction Poll, the highest annual gross income is $37,878 in men, while the women are worth 31.437 euros in women. Those with higher education and higher levels of higher education receive these salaries. When the gender-based wage difference is examined according to professional groups, the measure appears to be in favor of men's wages in all other trade groups, except for the group of managers. In addition to the difficulties of her employment, her employment as a senior executive, it is much more difficult for her to work. Women must be increased in their participation in the labour force to achieve their goal of development in 2023, the 100th year of the Republic. In order to increase women's employment turnout rates, women's education levels must be increased, institutional policies designed and implemented to encourage women to work at every educational level, and cultural prejudices against working women must be fought. A policy based on positive discrimination should be implemented that enhances women's employment participation. Women who work off the record must be covered by insurance. Women should be paid equal wages for equal employment and a reasonable fee for human life. Women must be stopped from running flexible, unsecured and subcontractors. It is also necessary for women who work in public and at work to be managers and to have equal rights. Publicly disabled women must have increased employment policies. Houseworkers and home-axis workers must be granted insurance, social security and the right to be unionized. Both parents must be arranged as an equally responsible and non-transferable right to release their children safely, open a free, healthy day care centre, implement a parental leave arrangement as soon as possible, and use that right. Studies between countries have found a positive and strong relationship between long-term potential growth and women's employment turnout. We must no longer reject the role of female labor in the development of our country. Women's participation in employment will have many positive effects on our economy. The savings rate is higher in families where women work. The rate of fertility and child mortality in working women is dropping, so families can have a greater share in health and education. Women who work spend their wealth in a way that is not for themselves, but for their families. While men share their earnings in spending alcohol, cigarettes, and entertainment, women spend more on education and health for their children. Thus, increasing the number of working women will have a positive effect on the better education and upbringing of younger generations. In order to increase women's participation in the labour force, institutional policies at every level of education must be designed and implemented that will encourage women to work. A climate of mentality has to be created to reverse cultural prejudices against working women. You know, as a result of increased unemployment, our Minister Mehmet Simsek showed women entering the labour market. The biased view of women entering the labour market is a cultural obstacle to the development of our country. The woman's participation in the labour force is not less than 50% and there is no improved example of a country. Therefore, it is very important for women to participate in the labour force to explore the relative effects of institutional and cultural factors and to develop different policies in some of these factors. The woman's economic strength will also lead us to take significant steps in the fight against the violence against her. Studies to increase women's level of education will prevent them from getting both economically strong and human rights violations against women. The wage differences between men and women working in similar jobs, discrimination in employment, discrimination in promotions, lack of care support for minors, social mentality giving women roles in the traditional home are key obstacles ahead of her participation in the workforce. These problems include human rights violations against women. According to the 2011 Development Index, Turkey is ranked 92, according to the results of the 2011 Development Index, which includes average education and health indicators, such as the expectation of life in childbirth, as well as per person's income prepared by the United Nations Development Programme. In the Social Gender Inequality Index, Turkey is ranked 77. According to the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Excession Report 2012, Turkey was ranked 124. These figures show that Turkey needs to reform more for development. Here, the importance of women must not be forgotten, and in order for women to become strong in society, all kinds of policies must be investigated, developed, and implemented in order to remove obstacles to education and employment. I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0039par0409	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç against the Peace and Democracy Party proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0040par0412	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal to open a parliamentary investigation. I salute you all. Social sex is about what kind of identity a society recognizes to men and women and what roles and functions at a certain time, in a certain place, in certain circumstances. In this context, the concept of social gender (e.g. social sex) entered international literature about thirty years ago, and it is still discussed what it means and how it responds. In the wake of the post-1980 struggles in our country, a number of stages of gender equality have been made, unfortunately not enough. In that sense, I want to look at the decade before us. You know, in 2009, the Equality Commission for Male Opportunity was established. The Commission for Equality of Opportunity was established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure the protection and development of women's rights, the equality of women and women's men. In 2009, in fact, we gave the first answer to a group that accuses us of constantly segregating the ruling party and locking her in the house. After that, the Prime Minister's Prime Minister's statement on improving women's employment with his signature and the equality of opportunity came into effect in 2010. Of course, it's important to us too. First of all, it's important to create awareness, because I'm afraid I say this in both public institutions and in the private sector -- we see that from time to time, there is no awareness of equal opportunities for men and women. In this regard, today we care very much about it, and we follow it. Other than that, there is a constitutional change in 2010 that we, the AK PARTI Group, see as a very important threshold. This constitutional amendment is, in this way, that everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion, religion, and so on. Men and women have equal rights. The state is obliged to ensure that this equality is granted to life. With this constitutional change, we are stressing on top of it that the state should be able to provide the equality of this opportunity. Other than that, there's not much you can do to these legal frameworks, no matter how much you actually lock them in this area, as long as you don't create awareness, there isn't much you can do. Actually, I'd like to get your attention on this. To create this social consciousness, we always say, education, education, education. As I've just said, here, have three children. Let the girls go to their homes and do nothing else... lf we really had that understanding... I'd like to give you a number of rates, if I may, of schooling rates. In 2002, when we were 88.4 in elementary school, we went to 98.56 in elementary school. We keep the girls locked up in the house? When we were 42.9 in junior high, we raised it to 66.14. I'll also tell Hakeza University -- which is a low rate for us, you know, 2023, we're a visionary party with 2071 goals -- and our university rates are up from 12.1 per cent in 2002 to 32.65 per cent. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough, but we have dreams, I always say, and with the support of the nation, hopefully we'll raise those rates by cooperating with the NGOs again so that we can have these projects, which are supported by the AK PARTI and the government, such as Girls' School and Mother's School. Friends, in 2002 873 thousand girls didn't go to school, so that's down to 56 thousand. We're mobilising again with our Ministry of National Education to further reduce this rate. There's something else very important, folks. We went to a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe last year. The subject was equal pay for equal work. The countries of the European Union are truly miserable, there is a 17 per cent ratio. But you know in Turkey that we have a clause in the Business Law again, and I want to read it: because of gender, there will be no lower wages for equal value work. Unfortunately, this is not legalized in the European countries where a number of groups look up to modern, modern. I'd like to give you a little example of Antalya, especially when a waitress in the tourism industry gets 800 million, and the waiter gets 800 million. So there's no line between that, there's no blockage, there's no less charge because you're a woman. There's no constraint, and our Ministry of Labor and Social Security is already a follower of that. Also, I'd like to talk to you about another matter of employment. We, you know, have a target. We are a government that has increased employment from 23 per cent to 31 per cent. I think it's very important. Women's employment means women's economic strength, women's appearance. We will succeed in making the woman visible after all the precautions we've taken. Hopefully, our goal of 2023 is to raise it to 38 percent. In this sense, we've made some changes to the Work Law, and I have very little time left, and I want to go over them briefly: disabled, pregnant, laboring officers are exempt from night shifts and shifts, so women and officers from the night shift are exempted. In fact, our government, our Minister of Labor and Social Security, has made a statement in the final statement of the conditions for part-time work at an equal rate of work. There's a study on maternity leave, especially when it's out in 24 weeks. There's a study in public institutions about resolving the kindergarten problem. There's a study about the woman on maternity leave being hired after childbirth. Other than that, its cost has to be paid by the public, so the state will take over the social security of the woman on maternity leave. With women's pension downgraded in terms of the number of children, as I just said, in general, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy works with precision as well as our Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which is also relevant to the regulation of part-time working conditions in public. I would also like to point out that in these three children's matters, Mr. Prime Minister's testimony is a recommendation, not an obligation. Our fellow lawmakers at other political parties often say that. I mean, I find it very sad. You call that advice a necessity. We don't have much to do, to be honest. Other than that, one of our deputies said something about the KOZA. Friends, the anti-violence centers serve in more than 10 provinces of Turkey, and I think it's a revolution. Friends, 7X24, when the abused woman leaves her house in her slippers, she can go there. I mean, I'm handing over the mindset that even criticizes that. This is a work to be applauded for. I don't know if you've ever been there, but if you haven't, I can welcome you to Antalya. There, a psychologist, a fellow worker from İSKUR, is serving with his doctor, his nurse, 7X24. I mean, it's easy for some of us to say things from the outside, but we're used to it. There's a few more things I'd like to get in touch with. I think, and we think, nothing is above politics, everything is discussed in politics. Transferring to one side is not in the tradition of the conservative democratic party AK PARTY. And we can solve this woman's problem in politics, with understanding. Other than that, I have so much to say, I'm running out of time. There's one small thing about this group's proposal: Our Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission is also a subcommittee in 2012... when some friends have an opportunity, but there's already a subcommittee for employment. So, as a group, we decide against it. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0041par0430	Thank you, Mr Enç.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0042par0431	Ms. Gökcen, you've been applauded from here.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0040par0432	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0043par0433	In his speech, the speaker misinformation, particularly speaking on the concept of social gender. I want to fix it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0044par0434	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0043par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. I really want to say once again that as women, we need to use this bench more often. The concept of social gender, which Mr. Hatibin stands for, should be debated yet. We don't think there's any discussion, but we know that the AKP's power is discussing it. Last term, the concept of social gender ▪ in preventing violence against women has been withdrawn by the signatures of the AKP's women MPs. And then we found out that there were approaches that held it in terms of the concept of gay. I think our AKP deputy friends, especially women, can once discuss within themselves what social gender means. As a result, the traditional roles of women and men as men and women in society are being reproduced every day, and the main problem of women today is here. So we think it's a problem for him to argue about it before he even understands the concepts. The other is an assessment of the KOZA. COZA is important to women... that violence monitoring centers against women have been something that women have been suggesting for years... but if you centralize it, centralize all information, if you make it in municipalities, local organisations... that doesn't control women's situation... here, women can't come in their slippers as you wish. Central locations, Ankara and Urbana are not places where women come and do things with slippers like that. From here, I propose to the AKP women's deputies: let's discuss it in an open session, in the press. Together, let us discuss the problems that have occurred at women's organisations in the anti-violence centers. Are you in or are you out? If you're doing good things, let's discuss together, together with women's organisations, what are their problems, what are women's problems, and how can we prevent it, and how can we improve the problems in practice? There's no need to be so political. One. Secondly, the female issue itself is a political issue, which, of course, has to be resolved politically. There's no real equality without social gender equality. As long as you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you can say very fancy words, it doesn't mean anything. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0045par0446	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0046par0451	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0045par0452	I'm going to look for the number of decisions, those who agree... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 6/3/2013 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Constitution. On 12/2/2013, İstanbul MP Aydın Ayyadın and 20 MPs were given the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly on 12/2/2013 to "the zoning irregularity of Esenyurt Municipality and to investigate the problems of the victims and to determine the ways of solutions" (717 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's 6/3/2013 jointly and held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Aydın Ağan Ayadın... [[Applause from CHP Rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0047par0465	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on this group proposal that the Republican People's Party has brought to the agenda on the research motion I submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the development scandal in Esenyurt. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are indeed having a zoning scandal in Esenyurt district of İstanbul. According to precedents given by the Esenyurt Mayor, the development situation, which is equal to 2.50, the earthquake zone, the landscaping area, and the ground ethics of which are not available, has given 28 stories of building illegally, illegally, illegally engineered models, where our citizens have taken their savings and put them in advance, and the rest of them in a bank loan. Later, however, it became clear that the building permits, the zoning conditions, were not legal, and that 25,000 of them lost their money to those imaginary dwellings on the model were surprised at what they would do. What's going to happen to them? These things need to be cleared up as soon as possible, and the people responsible for them need to be found. How did the process work, I'd like to share this with you: Metropolitan municipalities, 1/5 for the counties. He makes plans to build a thousand. County municipalities are 1/1. One / five of the major city municipalities made plans to build a thousand. They have to prepare it according to their plans for the construction of 000. It's one-point-one from Esenyurt City Hall. The plans for the zoning are unfortunately one-fiveth of which the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor has made. It is completely contrary to the plans for the construction of 000. That's one-and-a-half from the Metropolitan City Hall. He gave 14 examples to places with a precedent of 2.50 in the 5,000-euro zoning plan, with 5 times as high as 6 times higher, and unfortunately, he gave zoning status and licenses. The construction firms who received the registration made models of their buildings according to plans given to them by the city of Esenyurt in violation of the law, committed 28 stories, 30 stories, to the citizens, and took their money from the citizens, causing them to be somewhat defrauded. Now, I'd like to share with you a number of zoning plans: The Esenyurt Municipality, 2761 islands, with a precedent of 2.50 in the Grand City's 5,000-mile zoning plan, would have to give 2.50 examples for construction, but 13.99 examples for construction, 36,440 square metres of construction where there should be a construction site of 203,941 square meters. Again, Newista Residence, with three precedents; 12.38 precedents. Lavinya City has 2.50 precedents; 11.41 precedents. Blue Residence, 2.50 precedents, 10.63 precedents. Fi Side, there's a 2.50 precedent; 9.32 precedents. Terrace Mix, where there are three precedents: 8.76. Fi Tower has 2.50 precedents, 8.21 precedents. It's possible that we can replicate them, and he's given them all an infraction of 5,000, and he's given them licenses that he's given, and he's prepared construction companies, he's made models, he's marketed them, he's paid his clients, he's kept building them, he's kept building them. Some of the constructions are finished -- 28 floors -- some of them are not finished yet, and they continue. Now, the mayor's office is 1/1, which is the basis of this construction license given by the city of Esenyurt. He cancelled his plans for the construction of 000, said: "This zoning plan that you have prepared is contrary to the 5,000-alarm zoning plan that we have prepared, which I hereby deny the licenses you have given. " Nevertheless, the city of Esenyurt did not back down, and this time made plans for the parsal-based construction and sent them back to the Grandarch. Meanwhile, buildings continue to build, buildings continue to rise. Both the city of Esenyurt sees it and the city of Istanbul sees it, and no one stops these buildings from rising against the law, and they don't stop selling these buildings with illegal licenses; they watch our people become victims. Investigators of the Metropolitan Municipality and the Ministry of Interior are on top of that, coming in, reviewing. Investigators of the Metropolitan Municipality and the Interior Ministry have found that these licenses, issued by the city of Esenyurt, are against the law and are reporting that these zoning conditions are against the law. Thus, our people were victimized with illegal licenses given entirely by the city of Esenyurt, which led to their fraud. This is not a small number of people, but 25,000 were created in the yurtzede. These people trusted Esenyurt Municipality, trusted İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, trusted their state. They went by the state's licenses, putting together all their savings through the models, where they bought the dream of home. But now they don't have a home or a place to put their heads in, and they've lost all their savings, and they're in debt to the banks. Not only are these Esenyurtzeds the victims, but also the construction companies that were licensed by the municipality were victims. And they trusted the city because the city gave them a license. They built their building with licenses from the city, and then they said, "We gave you a license against the law." Now, President Necmi Kadioğlu of the AKP of Esenyurt (Esenyurt) is on television. What about it? One or two construction companies make mistakes, and we'll fix them in time, he says. Is that a thing? Twenty-five thousand families were defrauded, defrauded by illegal procedures. The Metropolitan Municipality and the Ministry of Interior say that this zoning situation of the city of Esenurt is wrong, it is against the law. The problems of the victims must be resolved. Let's join hands with the government and the government, set up a research commission, and eliminate the victims of these people, and if they do, let's get these responsible people out there. On Sunday, High Architect Osman Daldaloglu e-mailed me on behalf of Fi Structural victims who lost their money with these illegal licenses: We are on the verge of suicide, so let a solution be found. We will protest at Galatasaray Square on Sunday between 12:00 and 2:00 p.m. Let the ruling party sort this out, and you'll get rid of this problem. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, I would like to address the power of this violation of the law of your mayor... let's set up a research commission, let's sit down together, take measures that will prevent these people from becoming victims. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0048par0478	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun. The Republican People's Party Group's proposal is opposed by İstanbul MP Bkent Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0482	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. First of all, I salute you all. I'd like to come to the reasons why we're against CHP's group proposal. Dear friends, our coven has made it very clear that it has been very busy lately, that it is willing to do very important reforms. I don't find it very elegant that so many local problems, administrative problems that can be solved without the agenda of the House, the judiciary, the municipality, maybe a ministry, will be able to solve this agenda for hours. The formal economy is one of the essence of our sense of civilization. We're people who would rather talk less and do more than talk less and do less. So, I don't find it attractive that the Council of Esenyurt would take on the agenda of this Assembly for hours of the alleged error or lack thereof. I've known Mr. Ayadin as a man of great respect, for many years. We'll talk about it together outside the House. I'll show him the necessary documents, the information. If there's anything we can do together, we can do it, no problem. Because I think it's our greatest pride to put it on the table, even if it's a construction company, even if it's a one-man job, regardless of whether or not they've had a lot of work to do for themselves for ten years. If there are people in Esenyurt who are having problems -- and there are a few -- it's our job to figure it out, but it's not the Parliament's job, dear friends. Look, first of all, I want to express why we said no to this group proposal by CHP. For once, it was very sloppy. A motion with very different expressions, very serious contradictions in each paragraph. In one paragraph, it says, "Why was there so much neglect?" I mean, whether we do it or not, there's no way we're going to accept a motion that hasn't made up its mind. My dear friends, first of all, when we look at this problem, we see that it's nothing more than a political find. There's 25,000 people, there's 50,000 people, etcetera... and I don't think you believe that either, Mr. President. Because from 2009 to today, when I was in the village, when I was in the country, I had 13.600 licenses, 13.600 licenses, and a very large number of languages. Esenyurt Municipality is Turkey's 18th largest municipality. You, dear friends, can afford to have three, five wrong licenses when you give me a license of over 13,000. So there is an expression in Asia Minor: "A horse is not a camel." They say. There are huge problems. It's not like that. But, we also know one thing, it's not about solving the problem of the victims in Esenyurt, it's about hitting the AK PARTI municipalities in Istanbul; it's not about that, it's about our miscalculation friends; it's not about that. City Hall is the work of the AK PARTY, municipalism is what we do, dear friends. All documents show how Esenyurt was in the state of CHP's municipality in which all licensed structures -- I have 5 per cent of them -- were not able to pass through, but today, 100 per cent of Esenyurt is licensed. There is no illegal structure in Esenyurt, dear friends. If you compare it with the CHP municipalities around Esenyurt, so that there are no polemics I won't name, you'll know what I mean -- its path, its infrastructure, its development, its green area. In the last district, there are eight million square feet of green land -- easy to say -- dear friends. Esenyurt began to become a rural area, and the Esenyurt became an exemplary city. I'll say it again, in the case of 13,000, let there be five, 10 of them, but there may be one. So, my dear friends, I've talked to all concerned today -- and I hope that our city city council will bring it up at the April Council. These are not unresolved problems. The problem in Turkey is not the problem with Esenyurt. The problem is with our friends who, according to the license, do not do business according to the plan but produce according to the model. Look, I'm not saying the contractor side of the problem, the field side, the city side, the late-judgment side is responsible, there's a few sides to the problem, but I'm just saying it's possible to solve it. Dear friends, there have been no violations of the district plans in Esenyurt until 2008. In the cases filed after 2008, the State Department cancelled this regional plan in 2010. During this period -- the local court has decided to cancel the cancellation -- there are problems with constructions -- which have been under construction for about 15 or 20 years. Sir, that address over there has two and a half precedents, why is there one and a half? Is there such an account, Mr. Moon? Is that even possible? Could the land structure of that place be the same as the business ad standards, the infrastructure of that place? Can you imagine the plan: Let all of the Esenyurt be three plans, and let there be two and a half precedents? Is that even possible? Of course, every district, every neighborhood, every street, every place will have a special plan. So why does he have it, why don't I? That's the problem. The man made the model, with a precedent of one and a half and a half, but he made a model, as if he had built a building according to two and a half examples, and he sold it, and now I can't buy 1.5. We don't have to, we don't have to. See, the problem is, it's not the wrong license; you said it's the illegal license, it's not the illegal license, it's the problem, it's the unlicensed building, friends. It's very important. See, the CHP municipalities -- let no one be angry -- must think ten times as they take the word "people" into their mouths.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0050par0494	Have fear of God, Bulent.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0495	He'll have to think about it ten times.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0050par0496	Fear God.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0497	My freedom, sometimes silence can be more effective than shouting. Shut up, listen for two minutes. I've listened, and if you'll listen, we can enjoy it mutually. I have all the documents, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0050par0498	Show me.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0499	Look, if you say, "Fear God," I'll show you. I've got ISSU, I've got the cannibals, I've got the ISKI, I've got it all. But I'm not going into any of this right now, so let's not get polemic.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0050par0500	Just answer the questions.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0501	The issue is to resolve the problem of Esenyurt. The 2008 plans have problems depending on the cancellation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0051par0502	You've been talking about this for a hundred years.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0503	In March, in April, the Metropolitan City City will review these plans, which the court has requested, that the court sees fit...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0051par0504	Name ours, ours.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0505	...appropriately, valuable friends who will solve the problem by redesigning the area again. Look, if you really want to make your point, I'll show you a video of all of them, they've just been interviewed by contractors on the news, and I've just watched it. In the news, contractors say we did it wrong, we had to do it this way. Says the contractor. The person who took it says, "We didn't look at the spirit, we looked at the model, we made a mistake." Mayor of the District, I warned you not to do this, I said not to. The city is working to stop it, but our friends come out and say, "Sir, why did you do this?" For one thing, the number of 25,000 is imaginary, and there is a huge problem, and there is a dream, a municipality around Esenyurt that does serious work with its infrastructure, cultural work, and its green area, which is shown as an example in many AK PARTİ municipalities around Esenyurt. In spite of everything, I'd like to add this. Free, my dear fellow, let's say that despite everything.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0052par0510	Tell to Aydın Bey, tell him about Istanbul in Manisa.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0511	I'm just saying, after all, if anyone's wrong, the contractor's a contractor, the city's a civil servant, that's why there's no judgment? If there's a mistrial, if there's a flaw, he'll be compensated, I'm telling you that loud and clear.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0053par0512	If your pheasant is from Osman AKP, he will come out and you will defend him too!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0513	But instead of solving the problem, how do we compress the districts of the AKP? If you're worried about it, you're very wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0054par0514	How are you gonna get it?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0055par0515	Don't defend these crooks!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0516	Look, you turn me on, and I'll say one more thing. Esenyurt City Hall...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0055par0517	Yeah, well, don't defend these con jobs. If you love your God, they'll have courage!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0056par0518	Don't do it, Bulent!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0519	Go, go, go, see, you'll be proud.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0056par0520	You're judging the inspector!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0521	Mr. Haydar, look, Sadi has a saying, don't be angry, I'll say it because you're so loud. He says, "Sadi, you don't make honey, you don't try to sting."
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0056par0522	You can't sleep if I sting you, but...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0523	You're no use to anything, so at least don't make a sound and it'll help. The problems of the Esenyurt City Hall...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0056par0524	Don't break my manners!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0525	The contractor's problem, the owner's problem, and the client's problem is our problem. S-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s! Don't be jealous, don't be bored, we'll figure it out.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0056par0527	You're gonna beat him.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0049par0528	Anyway, I didn't go into detail again, but before the AK PARTY, the city of Esenyurt Belde was CHP. Shall I show you his decisions, too? His file's in the Supreme Court right now. He's been sentenced to over five years, license, wrong, this and that. That's why I'm telling you, CHP municipalities have to think about it ten times when they're taking the AK PARTY municipality into their mouth. As Esenyurt is from the CHP, so is the AK PARTY, as is the day and night. So if we look at a much calmer, much less biased issue, I think there's no problem that can't be solved. I hope that we will vote against the group proposal, and that the issue will be resolved with a few considerations, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0057par0531	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0058par0532	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0057par0533	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0058par0534	In his speech, Mr. Ayayyunt responded to the assessments made by Mr. Ayadunt regarding the municipality of Esenyurt, and went beyond that response to the discussion of the Republican People's Party municipalities.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0057par0535	Now I, Mr. Aya morning, will listen to you. I promise, but wait a minute, Mr. Akar is there because he won't stop. I'll listen to you in order, Mr. Hamzacebi, I promise you. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0059par0538	So, the speaker said my name out of the question, and I want to make those corrections.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0057par0539	And you are?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0060par0540	According to Article 69, the speaker again insulted me by mentioning my name. I want to show him how to sneak in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0057par0541	Mr. Hamzacebi, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0061par0544	Mr. President, good lawmakers, the sun doesn't roll with clay, the spear doesn't fit in the sack. On February 17, 2013, I went to the Esenyurt Municipality site, visited all the sites of these conflicting housing constructions, and with our borough organization, I went through them one by one. I've seen what kind of city murder was committed there, how our citizens were defrauded, and how those people, those companies, under the umbrella of the city, did it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0062par0545	There is no case, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0061par0546	If you listen, you'll find out. I don't suppose you've been to and from those construction sites.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0062par0548	I'm there every day.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0061par0549	That's no way to talk to a congressman on the stand who's been to and from those construction sites. There are constructions there with 10 precedents instead of 2 precedents. What are the two precedents? For our friends who don't know it or our viewers who watch it, it means he has the right to build 2,000 square meters of construction.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0063par0550	Land, land...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0061par0551	Ten precedents means 20,000 square meters of construction. Yeah, the city gave me a license. While there were two precedents in the registration, that company built 20 precedents, 10 precedents, 15 precedents, 8 precedents, 5 precedents, 7 precedents -- whatever -- depending on the blocks. What did the city do for a living when the company was building these constructions? Didn't the mayor have the authority to intervene in those illegal constructions, and why didn't the Home Secretary process the mayor who didn't do it, and why did so many people get hurt? Is the fact that the mayor is on trial with Mr. President in the ECBIL case grounds that he hasn't been processed? Is that why he didn't intervene, Home Secretary?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0064par0553	Is he on trial with the Prime Minister? Holy shit, he's on trial!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0061par0554	Citizens have been victims. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0065par0557	Thank you. Mr. Aya morning, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0066par0561	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, my friend, who just spoke for the AKP Group, said that I was the opposite of what I said, and that I was the one who was giving out unrealistic information. He said: "There is no illegal procedure in the house, there is an illegal procedure." It is not true, it is not true. The city of Esenyurt is supposed to provide a zoning situation with 2.50 precedents... because it's a 1/5 signed by the city. There are 2.50 precedents for 000. Esenyurt City Hall has issued 13.99 precedent licenses. What is this, not legal? If a Republican People's Party mayor had made one percent of it, the police would have raided the home of that mayor and all the employees in that municipality at the crack of dawn, taken them all to the police, taken them all to the police station, and put them all in prison, but a mayor of the government, who did this illegal procedure, would have allowed 50,000 people to be defrauded, and he would have continued to protect the mayor, as today's Esenyurt Mayor did. The city of Esenyurt has a hearse, including a presidential vehicle, and 40 cars foreclosure. The city of Esenyurt is in bankruptcy. I'm calling upon the government to take a look at Esenyurt City Hall. I'm calling from here to the Attorney General's office: Get the charges filed, prevent the victims of many more people in the city of Esenyurt. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0067par0566	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0068par0567	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0067par0568	No, there's a line, there's a line.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0068par0569	What's happening to Mr. Haydar?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0067par0570	You read poetry from Sadi, and he came for it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0069par0571	But let him apologize now.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0067par0572	We'll watch the poems, the songs.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0069par0573	Let him apologize first. That word she said wasn't very nice.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0067par0574	Sir?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0069par0575	That word wasn't nice. Our friend should apologize.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0070par0576	What word did he mention?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0071par0577	You said something about your position, your position.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0069par0578	When our friend reads the poem, when he talks about the bee stinging...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0072par0579	I didn't hear that.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0069par0580	...and apologize for the word he used there.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0072par0581	Now our friend will answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0073par0584	I'll show you if you want. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs asked the camel, "Why is your neck crooked?" He said, "Where is my right?" Now, my friend is up here defending the city of Esenyurt, and then he says, "Let's make a criminal announcement, let's find out if there's a negativity together, let's do it." Now, I'm going to give you a couple of examples: I've been here for two years giving the files of Cartepe City to the former Home Secretary, the city's deputies, everyone. You know what, the result? The inspector was tried and condemned. (CHP) The inspector was tried and condemned. A few days ago, video footage of Deep City City showed up. They call it an education given to bureaucrats, not an education. Five or ten minutes... he hired an expert, and you know what Deep City teaches? Let's see how we make up the corruption. He's teaching us how to make up corruption. Who? Deep down, I told the mayor and his bureaucrats how to soap up corruption. Now, I'm calling the prosecutors from here to watch that videotape and process it deeply about the City Hall. Again, I'm speaking to my friend who spoke here just now: if you're doing such clean politics, here's the Cartage City file, here's your Deep, go clean them up first. I'm here to explain over and over how investigators are being tried as a result of the mayors' reports, and you're not doing any of them. There's no need to go too far, I'm giving you an example from the Big City. And I'm calling the prosecutors here, and I'm saying, for God's sake, check out those AKP municipalities once and let people go, see what they come up with. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0074par0593	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0075par0594	You must be confused with the past.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0073par0595	I'm not.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0075par0596	Read the papers, the newspapers, the newspapers.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0073par0597	You're stuck in the past, you're stuck in the past.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0076par0598	Take your place, Haydar, take your place.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0075par0599	Read the free paper.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0073par0600	I answered you, I answered you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0077par0601	Please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0075par0602	Read the assessments of the court concerning the Nestie Dam.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0073par0603	I answered you. Deep down, so does the mayor.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0078par0604	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0079par0605	I did, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0080par0606	Read about it in the papers. The court has decided, it has decided on the Nestie Dam.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0079par0607	I can't. They're fighting.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0081par0608	In the same way -- look, read this decision -- Deep down, Mayor, there's that, too, find out.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0079par0609	Wait a second... So you've got two minutes, he's your friends, God willing... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0082par0613	Mr. President, dear friends, it's about eating grapes, not dealing with the farmer. If there's a problem, I say we solve it, and I'm not saying anything bad. I was surprised to see Mr. Hamzacebi put the AKBIL case on the agenda. The AKBIL case is one of the black sheep cases of Turkish legal history.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0083par0615	That's what always happens to you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0082par0616	It's obvious from the shouting of Nur Serter, where torture is at its most extreme.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0083par0617	That's what always happens to you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0082par0618	Everyone knows what kind of case it is. Therefore, it grieves us that our friends, who are sensitive to Silivri, give an image of torture. Besides, the AKBIL cases have been acquitted, my friends. We must have been surprised, disappointed, to use this expression, based on a acquitted case. That's why I'm passing the ACBI case. Dear friends, once again, the side of the problem is the contractor and the customer. Look, I'm telling you right now, he's a client with a contractor. If there's a case against one license, the fall of the precedent, if there's a problem, why don't you sue the city? There's no case. You started construction by trusting me. That's why I'm going down. There's not one case that says I'm going down. The registrations haven't changed, guys. There's a problem with the contractor who's doing business against the license. But even so, we say, our municipality says, let's figure it out. What's not understood here? Mr. Aya morning, is there a case against the city? Is there a case filed by a client, the man who was building there? No.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0084par0621	There's been a complaint.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0082par0622	There isn't one because -- I'm saying again -- it's the contractor and the client.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0085par0623	There's a prosecution investigation, a prosecution investigation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0082par0624	But even so, I say: All kinds of problems are our problems, our problems; the satisfaction of the citizen is essential, and we will try to solve it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0086par0625	Let's look into it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0082par0626	But, as you say, if it were a painting, there would be hundreds of cases, hundreds of cases. There's four firms, a total of 500, and it's not horse and camel, it's...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0087par0627	Let's investigate. Let's investigate.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0088par0628	We're giving you a file, a file.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0089par0629	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0090par0630	Mr. Haydar, calm down... I won't answer you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0088par0631	Don't give it, don't give it... we give it to you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0089par0632	Please... please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0090par0633	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0091par0635	You've been defeated by force, you've been defeated by a neutral eye.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0089par0639	In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Celal Adan. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0092par0642	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. We have friends here who run for mayor. In the reign of Justice and Development Party, you will all remember our former mayor of Skopjeküdar, who had cancer because a minister's land in the area was opened to development. Now, I'm amazed at one thing: if there's a theft, if there's a claim to shamelessness, put your heart into it, get the research to refute this claim, and go before the public, and this is the wrong motion the Republican People's Party has made. Say, win one more point, but your minister's taking the field of status. A villa on their backs in pine is not $5 million, it's $10 million. You know the Minister, he's your minister. Your 4-5 ministers were not listed on charges of theft. During the reign of Justice and Development Party, precious Istanbul MPs, lawmakers of the 1st district, on the return of Kavacık (Kavacık), as they entered the bridge, there was the location of the highways -- the location of the two-sided highways -- who now has the location of these highways? Come on, let's hear it, let's have a heart here. Who's got Beyoğlu Courthouse, who's got the Eagle Tekel Factory? Brother, these are Istanbul's oxygen fields, these are the universities... who owns the DGM building in Beşiktas? What right do you have to assign the oxygen fields of Istanbul to the foundations that look like allies to you as you distribute your father's property? There are 4,000 zoning changes in Istanbul, where corruption, shamelessness... Mr. Group Vice President, when I have the deed, zoning is 1.25; when the deed is well established, it's 3.25. If you don't believe me, come, I'll give you their address. Therefore, the number of zoning corruption in Istanbul is over 100 billion dollars. When you came to power, two people had a billion dollars, three people, four people, and now 120-150 people have a billion dollars. However, for some reason, those with billions of dollars were given construction projects, not by manufacturing, by adding value, but by profiting, by plundering, each project with a quadrillion dollars. Now, why are you afraid to get up and investigate 4,000 zoning changes, the alleged corruption of the city of Esenyurt? Really, I feel sorry for you. Another thing: Dear lawmakers, we're going through the days when we have to hear, where we have deep concerns about our country. What has happened over the past week has revealed that we are facing a new and great threat. The name of this threat, of course, is separatism, the terrorist leader's will to join the state. But I think Turkey is facing a threat of democracy, bigger than either of these reasons. What has happened in the last few weeks has shown that democracy is at stake. The democracy, which we have martyred and paid a lot of costs for its establishment and maturity, is now under threat from the Justice and Development Party, which the public voted for to protect democracy. Wouldn't it be a big scandal in a real democracy because of the reaction and after the Prime Minister's reaction to the fact that Imralı reports are in the press? This attitude should be perceived as a real threat to democracy. The Prime Minister is trying to eliminate the Turkish press from the press and make it his own. What happened in the national newspaper is simply terrifying. The newspaper's two key writers, the Editor-in-Chief, are on the verge of leaving their posts due to the psychological violence of the Prime Minister. If you put our lives together with the lens of these two columnists and the Editor-in-Chief, nothing would match. They've made cruel comments about me and about me from time to time. The violent signal of these events is that democracy is in danger, that it is in danger. If the Prime Minister is trying to cancel the media, which is the main institution of the democratic regime, then it's actually going to be everyone's turn. Today, the business environments, which care to stay within the borders of power, will also come to NGOs because democracy, which is everyone's guarantee, is threatened. The Prime Minister's attitude towards democracy is no different from that of the coupgers. The coupger has a gun in his hand, but today the Justice and Development Party threatens democracy with the will of the nation. Everyone must know that our nation has resisted military coups, and we know that we will resist and we will not surrender. The only way to do that is with the National Movement Party's faith in democracy. With our nation, it is our duty to eliminate this threat. People, we will never allow your will to be exploited by a dictator. We invite everyone to take a democratic stance, honor democracy, dignity. In what democracies are there to monopolize the media by threatening businessmen in these days when the hit man, the looter, the robber, has demonstrated the will to own a newspaper? Now I ask you: In light of all these developments, a writer who has been very close to you in the past, and who is cruelly questioning Turkish nationalism these days, said: "Give Apoh to Pasha." In light of all these developments, the Justice and Development Party, you're going to give Apoka the Stateship at the end of the final minutes that have emerged and punished the media? The Prime Minister has appointed himself to win the freedom of the villain of the Imran, but he clearly makes people look like idiots while he performs this sinister task that history will curse him. On the one hand, there is no general pardon, we don't forgive crimes against the person, we forgive crimes against the state. He says, on the other hand, they can forgive crimes against the state, and the head of the bandits is sending a message to his followers, and what forgiveness? We're all out together tomorrow. He can demonstrate his will. This is clearly delivered by the Prime Minister to Abdullah Ocalan. This process of treason, called the Imran process, is at first understood as a process based on the understanding of the release of the terrorist leader. The AKP has recently put Turkey through such things that I now believe that the public has the right to ask the following question: Are you going to give Apoka the Pasha? In Turkey, democracy is at stake, democratic life is being deliberately poisoned. When I say I'm not doing politics and polymics, I'm talking clearly about a threat. Once a democracy is poisoned, institutions are rendered inoperable, the public information channel is blocked in the first place, and the public is forced into the one-channel information of power. Typical example of this is happening these days. Turkey is involved in the biggest project of destruction and betrayal in its history. The state has been contaminated. The abuse of national will is polluting democracy. Our values and the sacred concepts created in history are at their feet. In such a case, Turkey has been having discussions about the state and the nation's betrayal pit for days instead of discussing its possible consequences. We have to understand the character, scope, historical consequences of the destruction in Turkey. It is the duty of all those who are connected to this land to fight this mindset that has thrown a thousand years of history into the dust. The National Movement Party will, of course, continue its fight against this disgrace that we are being drawn into with its nation. This is the most important period in the history of the republic, of the emphasis, of the looting, of the robbery. I'm telling you, in Mecidiyeköy, in Sisli, in many places in Istanbul, the first owners of the deed were not able to buy the building, the businessmen who were close to you... they were close to you in the past, and now they're on the Prime Minister's plane, and they're down to 3.25. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Justice and Development Party, which came to power with the poor's votes, will surely pay for it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0093par0656	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0657	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0093par0658	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0662	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We listen to all these conversations with great patience, with great tolerance. We have so much to say...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0664	Speak!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0665	...but we want this House to work. We want this Parliament to work, where the will of the nation is reflected and is the solution to the problems of the nation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0666	Don't look for will in Imran!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0667	What kind of a democracy is that, guys? For years in this country, the will of this nation has been protected. We all know that. For years...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0668	Since ten years ago...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0669	For years, in your time...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0670	Since ten years ago...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0671	...soldiers and intelligence went without asking political will, where they met...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0672	For ten years, you've been handing out newspapers, headlines, televisions, opposition, everywhere.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0673	... And the politics that represented the will of the nation could not even intervene, and he could not ask, "What are you seeing?"
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0675	You can't digest freedom, you can't digest democracy!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0094par0676	And you didn't mind that day, today, clearly, in front of the public...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0095par0677	You're interfering everywhere, everywhere...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0096par0678	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0097par0679	Listen!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0680	... Taking risks to solve people's problems...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0681	You go to the Imran, to the Imran.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0100par0682	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0683	Listen to me for a minute, listen to me!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0684	You're not going here, you're going to Imran.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0100par0685	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0686	Today, he's got a public record of...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0687	You're going to Imralı, you're interviewing the constitution.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0100par0688	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0689	...in front of the public, in order to solve the problem of the nation, to say to the AK PARTY, who took the risk to relieve this blood,, out of democracracracracy....
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0690	What blood? You negotiate with blood, you produce politics through blood.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0100par0691	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0692	Don't shout, calm down! What the hell is wrong with you?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0693	You're using your blood language!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0694	Why are you so angry? Oh, look, there's people. There's people, people! Don't speak for the people!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0101par0695	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0696	We are not a silent devil against the sovereignty of this nation, against all that they hold dear.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0697	Don't speak for the people, I'm the one who speaks for the people.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0698	Praise be to God, we have a tongue to ward off evil.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0699	If these people don't like the way I'm doing it, they'll bury me in the trunk!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0700	I'm using my word, I'm using my voice. Are you going to interrupt me?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0098par0701	Don't you trust these people?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0099par0703	Are you going to interrupt me? What are you gonna do? You don't have media bosses here!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit01spe0102par0704	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0102par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party is against the group's proposal, Mr. Demir Çelik. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from my esteemed congresswoman friends on the Republican People's Party's Esenyurt Municipality's zoning fraud and the motion to investigate the subsequent victims. I salute you all. First of all, the zoning is Turkey's blood-loss area, which literally means serious victims, problems. The irregularities, abuses, or a number of interests in this area, and the fact that the interests of individuals and groups are acting in violation of both society and society's values are worth investigating. In this sense, it is my belief that it is our Parliament's duty to bring to light the investigation into Turkey's basic field of problems without limited to Esenyurt, and I think it is its duty to address the victims; it is its duty to take part in such an effort, such as to do what is necessary. Mr. President, we will discuss and continue to discuss these and so-called issues, as long as there are no democratic, egalitarian, libertarian and civilian issues, both zoning laws 3194 and Constitutional Law 5393, and the Constitution itself, which shapes them. These problems, which seem to have proved that for the past 90 years, the state's failure to solve its problem with the environment at a legitimate and democratic point, are likely to be discussed for many years as long as we act on this perception and mentality. However, meeting the legitimate, democratic demands of society and making proper legal arrangements for it is the main and fundamental duty of this Assembly, more than anyone else. And it cannot be postponed in this sense. To resolve this mission in accordance with the universal law of today is the basic area where we are obliged to do what we cannot escape. Mr. President, it is our duty, as in today's world, to bring to life a mind, philosophy, spirit, if it is our common habitats, if it is the cities where 80 percent of our population has begun to live in Turkey, where there is a condensation, an immigrant, and a migration in favour of the city, as in Turkey today's world. As in every city, Turkey has an identity, a spirit, and an identity of Istanbul, İzmir, Diyarbakır. This spirit and identity alone and alone will be lost when it is subject to an application that is aimed at benefiting and benefiting parts of the human species or human species, their interests, their interests, their interests, and that's what we lose. Because, ultimately, the nature we live on is not alone in the world we live on. A philosophical approach, a philosophical approach, is meaningful when we bring urban politics into existence, along with millions of species of plants, animals, water, mountain, millions of species that are part of the natural balance. In this way, it should be our duty to defend social and natural stability based on bio-division, which is based on bio-division. If social and natural stability is not simple, it is also our duty to ensure that the multi-species and various identities, and the multi-species, and the various structures, together in peace, are complementary and specific, not species. In some ways, the mega-city that we all cause, especially in Istanbul, has been reduced from being a social, political, psychological entity, as it consumes this natural balance, to being able to meet the basic needs of a person with movement, to being subject to the rights of the ruling centers. With this size, the cities must be recycled by all of us, but recycled. Cities where our sun is confined by its ruling focus, when our water, our wind, is prevented from meeting the soil, when it's transformed into areas where we've been deprived of social equipment and green spaces, where multiple floors and concrete blocks are made to dominate the rule, but natural balance is impossible for the human to find a habitat. In that respect, first of all, a democratic, egalitarian, liberal constitution, a local government with administrative, financial, political autonomy under the command of that constitution; this should be an approach for local governments to take care of all of us, once again, with justice, equality, and a fundamental zoning law. We need to be able to approach not only man, but with an understanding of the tree, its plant, its bird, and above all, the life rights of all living creatures in nature, so that our cities should be the areas where we live. In that respect, it is also our duty to open the way for the practices that encourage migration from the city to the country, rather than into the millions of cities. If we can create calm cities instead of millions of cities, instead of cities, instead of cities of millions, instead of towns of our villages, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of poverty, of which we have come to lose our villages, of tens of thousands, of thousands of cities, of bicycle roads, of footways, of disabled needs, of free, democratic cities where life can be more meaningful, more democratic. But instead, when we insist on mega cities, we face a city where our social activities are at risk, where our living areas are threatened, from traffic to health, from education to culture. We have to create quiet cities with one side, and then we have to create bio-towns with the other. When biologists find life in a natural and legitimate place where the cycle of wind, sun, soil and water is run on the natural and legitimate ground, when their human basic needs come to life with other creatures in nature, when conditions for us to live in the country, in the country, we also eliminate the problems of mega cities that cause social condensation. In the same way, if we can create green towns instead of mega-million-dollar cities, if we can create green areas when we include thousands of towns and towns of the country instead of 81 cities, if we can replant life in these green areas with trees, plants and natural balance, we can get ahead of the basic problems that we have. At this point where humanity comes, it is not a situation where we can run away from governance relations based on political and administrative autonomy based on bio-division at this time, when the debates on the meeting of humanity's new needs are condensed. As Parliament, as political parties of the Assembly, we can establish a relationship to the role of political actor, the spirit of being a political actor, except for the non-threatening, aggressive, overachieving approach to our problems, based on the debate, dialogue, and negotiation. Today's the day. I salute you all with my faith that by discussing this day, we can overcome our dilemmas, our inadequacies, our failures, our mistakes, that we can all be able to create a more accurate, democratic, ecological, economic society together. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0103par0018	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0102par0019	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ayadin, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Altay, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Pookie, Mr. Özsüşmiş, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Kıray, Mr. Akova, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Demiröz. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Republican People's Party that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and İzmir MP Mr Alaattin Yüksekin; Electrical Market Law and Turkish Radio-Television Institution Agreement for Amendment in the Law; Antalya MP Osman Kapa Τ; Turkish Radio Television Agency's Bill for Development and Electrical Market Act; Law Proposal for Changes, Adana MP Mr Ali Halaman (x) 426 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 426 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision adopted, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Rider. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes. BDP GRUBU ISINA IBRAHIM BINIST - Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Bill 426. I hereby salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, external energy policies dictated to AKP governments by global forces are now on the verge of bankruptcy. Although the government, which has been at work for more than a decade, has claimed otherwise, Turkey has made it more dependent on the energy field. In 2002, when preparing for power, the AKP, in its election declaration, established the basis of our party's energy policies in a cheap and reliable way, reducing the burden in the budget, protecting the environment and human health. In addition, 35 per cent of electricity production is derived from hydropower plants, while today it is reduced to under 20 per cent. The share of gas power plants, which are 30 per cent, has been raised to 45 per cent. At this point, almost half of the electrical energy we generate is produced from a single source, which is 98% of the natural gas we depend on. That's not the only vortex we've been dropped into in the production of electricity. Nearly 60 percent of our electricity production is done by imported sources, including the amount of coal that we import and other imported oils. The amount of invoices we have to endure for the supply of these resources is already over $35 billion. Dear lawmakers, who have steered renewable resources in order to reduce the share of natural gas circuit plants in the production of electricity and reduce the dependency of externality, are looking out for long-standing HES projects. The nature, history and culture massacres he's engaged in with his Ilisu and Munzur projects include new projects with small HES projects that will drain our valleys. Some 300 mounds will remain in the dam lake area of Hasankeyf, at least 12,000 years of unprecedented history in the world, and more than 55,000 people's cultural, social and economic rights that will be damaged according to official authorities, as the AKP does not care about about 2,000 caves. In the past and today, the killings of the environment and nature are being committed in Munzur, in the Valley of Storm, in the same way as the killings of cultures at Birekikik and Yorttan dams in our country. Remember, alternatives to energy production can be developed, but there is no alternative to our historical, cultural and natural values. The most rational use of hydraulic energy is of course important to our country, which is dependent on outer energy. However, our streams have been surrounded by water rights regulations developed by the DSI and Electrical Ethics Administration arm in arm, and have been surrounded by natural and environmental plunder. The approval of 26 HES projects on almost every stream in the eastern Black Sea region, especially in the Twins, is clear evidence. Dear lawmakers, another issue that AKP governments are as stubborn about as the HESS is their dream of building a nuclear power plant. While European countries have given up nuclear power, the AKP government is in love with the desire to build a nuclear plant for Mersin Akkuyu. The AKP's power has blocked the ears of locals, NGOs and energy experts on nuclear power plants. By avoiding explaining the contents of his agreement with Russia, Akkuyu was almost under siege. While the trail of the Chernobyl accident nearly wiped away from our memories, Fukushima and I reanimated in the clearest form of consciousness. In fact, Chernobyl continued to live in secret new bodies, like a bad legacy passed down from generation to generation, in the body of thousands of people it affected. The magnitude of the incident in Japan's earthquake and tsunami disaster has yet to be fully known. Japan, a technology giant, could not prevent this accident, but is far from calculating the size of the accident and its future effects. Therefore, although it does not have a nuclear facility, I find it helpful to remind you that Turkey is the only country in which nuclear accidents occur. The only thing that would make Fukushima's nuclear plant crash, perhaps a good one, is the risks of nuclear energy, the desperation in the face of this disaster, and most importantly, the unrecognisable disaster of nature and the environment. For this reason, many European countries, including Germany, Belgium and Spain, have put their new nuclear projects on the shelf. I'm talking about the heads of our narrow peoples. Dear lawmakers, the view of energy supply and management is far from encouraging electricity production and protecting consumer rights. If the bill is looked at in general, it will be clear that the issues involving investors have been discussed and the consumer masses have been neglected. The measures needed to be delivered to consumers in order to be sufficient, quality and cheap in the face of increasing energy prices have been completely ignored in this bill. This logic, which envisions the complete ability of a strategic resource such as energy, to provide it with the ability of the private sector, has only dealt with the market size. The government's admiration for market and marketism has skyrocketed with this bill. There have been a number of markets that are legally unknown, such as the pre-day market, the day market, the balance market, the side service market. Precious lawmakers will no longer stand in the way of hydropower plants and thermal power plants projects, with the arrangement brought in on the interim 14th article of the bill, which is exactly what is intended by the arrangement. The legal wall in front of HES and thermal power plant projects, which have been transformed into ravages of nature, history and culture, is wanted to be destroyed by this arrangement. The AKP, unfortunately, has entered the search for the number of fingers under the House's roof to overcome the judicial decisions it's considered a liability to this issue from the beginning. At the same time, the temporary 14th article provides a specific rescue function for its address. This Cargill-like play, which remains fresh in our memory, is once again wanted to be staged in Samsun. The open address of this arrangement is the Austrian-based OMV, an international energy giant who built a power plant on agricultural land. OMV, one of the most important energy companies in Europe, also owns 97 per cent of the Oil Office. As we know, OMV Energy has received the license of the natural gas power plant to produce most of its land for forty-nine years in Samsun. The fact that a large number of politicians and bureaucrats, including the Minister of Energy, attended the 2010 launch ceremony of this project, which would meet 3 per cent of Turkey's need for electricity if it were to come to life, sums up this point. With this clause in the bill, the license has been revoked for any reason, but it has been opened to re-license facilities that have reached a point where they cannot be returned to construction. In fact, it is all judicial decisions that are referred to as any reason. With this clause, which aims to nullify judicial decisions, licenses will be renewed for the halted HESEs and thermal power plants in the case of environmental enemies. If the bill is legalized in this way, there will be absolutely no rights, no judicial independence, and no faith in science in Turkey. In particular, I'd like to address the fingerholders who will support the state of this clause: remember that our environment, nature, historical and cultural values are as much a trust to you as future generations are to us. As you know, to protect and protect the trust, even to look after the trust, is one of the greatest ethical values accepted by geography. It must not be taken out of the mind that trust betrayal is at the head of acts that will never and will never be tolerated. Precious lawmakers, one of the key regulations brought in by the bill is the condition that a company in electricity production or distribution activities can have a maximum share of 20 per cent across Turkey. The arrangement, at first glance, seems to be an obstacle in the face of monopoly, also opens the way for the firm to take over the market as much as the fingers of one hand. In particular, in EU countries, some companies operating in the field of energy cause serious concerns about monopolisation of marriages. In this regard, a high-level eclipse may cause small-scale companies to be cut off, but it may also be possible for markets to be controlled by several major companies. Dear lawmakers, the idea that some of the billing pens have been a serious burden on consumers over the years and have been protected exactly shows itself in this bill. The TRT share, 2%, continues to reflect lost illegal costs to consumers. One of the strange things about this job is that these pens, which have nothing to do with the consumption of goods and services, have to do with VAT computing and collecting from consumers. In this bill, some of the interesting concepts are the latest supply supply, the last supply tariff concepts, and the condition of a license attached to it. In order to prevent the victims of consumers who are at odds with this license, there is a way to sell electricity at a price higher than market price. Dear lawmakers, one of the important things that the bill has changed is the cancellation of licenses of companies -- the autoproducers -- which are now producing 262. The companies that use cogeneration technology will now have to get a production license, and they will only be able to give 20 percent of the extra electricity they generate into the system. Cogeneration technology is used in many sectors, such as textiles, paper, chemistry, food, ceramics. Using this technology, autotroductors that produce both electricity and steam at the same time and together take electricity from their own systems and thus are exempted from additional charges on electricity bills. Sector experts have said that 3 billion cubic cubic metres of natural gas and 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions have been reduced in facilities of 8,000 megawatts that have been installed so far. Dear lawmakers, one of the key regulations brought in by the bill is to allow distribution companies to import electricity. Giving import permission can put pressure on the investor, but it can also have a negative impact on the search and use of domestic resources. The most crucial arrangement of the bill was made with the interim Article 8/1, and it was evident that the AKP government had a view of the environment. The arrangement left production facilities in 2018 after five years, with the obligation to be harmonised with the environment. This was not enough, but the Council of Ministers is authorized to extend the deadline for three years. I reject this imposed understanding of our citizens' right to live in a healthy environment, the Constitution, and the EU directives, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam; please come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0104par0078	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, today we're going to review an important law here together. Before that, I think it's useful to remind you once again why this law is important, the state of energy in the world, the state of Turkey's energy corridor. Dear friends, the world's strategists and international major forces have formed every movement point in the world on top of the oil fields in Eurasia. In a geography like this, Turkey feels geographically that all oil roads and energy sources pass through it, and although it does not have huge reserves for its energy sources, it is a very important energy power because it is above the passage of geopolitic and energy roads, and it is open to the power that big countries in the world can do. Turkey reveals its weakness in energy as a point when it moves without putting itself in this position and in this position. Turkey's position in both its foreign policy and energy policies is very important. Turkey, which is above all transit routes, has to take both its foreign policy and energy policy together. Eurasia, Russia, Caucasus, Iran, Iraq, the Mediterranean, and North Africa need to establish a national and international energy strategy and work on this strategy in order for this country to be able to use its advantages correctly. Unfortunately, it's not possible to say that we have a policy today, in accordance with this general perspective. Turkey is unable to exercise its power because of its problems with its neighbours in foreign policy, and today, at this point, it has to show serious weaknesses. The state of Turkey's external dependency, especially in energy, also in the current deficit, is a very important part of the current deficit, which, as government officials have delivered, is from this point. Despite all this, energy policies in Turkey are met by a structure consisting of natural gas and imported products, especially in 60 per cent of electricity. What we as the Republican People's Party say about this, I first want to tell you about our policy here: our main goal in national energy policy is Turkey's pricing policy, which, in this sense, will provide the highest efficiency in energy policies in the country, using technology, using its domestic resources to reduce external dependence on imports to 30 percent of the energy level, allowing our economy to develop cheap energy, quality energy, supply security, energy, and an energy policy that sustains our economy, and may have motor power. That's the Republican People's Party's view of energy. In terms of our country's international relations and the development of our economy, this should be the policy of energy in Turkey. In this sense, Turkey must implement an energy policy. So, how and what players should be involved in this energy policy here? We underline that in this energy policy, the public's driving, initiative, and planning should never be rejected, but at the same time, we would like to open the way for the private sector and investors to enter the market, to take initiative in this market, within this international and national energy policy, to create an established, planned, programmed energy policy, to create a competitive environment. This understanding has always shown itself and found its expression while the law is being discussed, while energy policies are being created in Turkey. We're trying to pave the way for the investor to invest in energy. And while we were talking about this law today, we made it very clear that we are willing to give any kind of support in this law to open the way for domestic, renewable and SME-level enterprises to get their front licenses and licenses, to increase investment incentives, and to provide a real competitive environment in this regard. This law must think together on three legs: 1) He must consider production. 2) He must consider transmission, distribution and supply. 3) Most important is the consumer and the industrialist. I mean, we said that we're in favor of the creation of an energy-market regulator in an energy system in which people who consume are constantly available, that we're going to provide this understanding, that we're going to support it in a general sense, that we're going to provide it, that we're going to provide it. All of our motions, all of our conversations, that's the basic sense of underlying our work on the Commission over the course of a month. So, this bill the Ministry brought, is it a bill that can serve it? Unfortunately, first of all, I don't have to say anything positive about this. First: This draft plan is to inform only the shareholders of their views before they can be discussed with the shareholders. I'll evaluate him. He's prepared in his understanding and has arrived at our Commission. It's obviously so unprepared that they've made changes in all their materials with 36 amendments to their own bill. And the most painful thing is that, in the Constitution and State of the Energy Market Board, this law has come to the agenda without even waiting for the pre-determinated law to be drawn up, and we are at the point of making the best efforts we can to correct this law on the commissions. My dear friends, I'd like to continue to highlight why we can't find our assessments of energy here in Turkey. Now, what need will this law provide? The need that this law will provide for itself is that a Stock Exchange Istanbul is founded instead of the Istanbul Stock Exchange. The established Stock Exchange is trying to create an energy exchange as a new subsidiary of Istanbul, and the created stock market is really based on an understanding that, without thinking about the production foot, only the distribution companies and the supply organisation in this sense can be processed in the stock market, which is five times, seven times higher, 10 times higher than the market in Istanbul. So, not the needs of Turkey, but the infrastructure of creating a new resource for Istanbul shows itself in this law. Two: Unfortunately, at the point of quality, quality, quality electricity and energy supply written in the purpose of this law, there is no evidence of any work at all. The second situation in this law was a law in 2001, which responded to the demand of distribution companies at the point of moving their growing power to the legal and legal ground to overcome the challenges of distribution companies that began privatising after 2004. Dear friends, in 1990, the public's share in electricity production has fallen from 91 per cent to 40 per cent today, and the private sector's share has reached about 60 per cent of the 12 per cent. Similar situations in the distribution organization also make you feel. The distribution companies feel so strongly about this law that despite all our efforts, we were unable to prevent a monopoly in this market. The proposal for reaching 20 per cent of the law is today prepared for a very limited number of purchases by a distribution organisation opened to the stock market by removing 30 per cent of what they've created in another article, not domestically, but an infrastructure and legal basis that will allow a foreign investor to dominate the energy distribution market in the future. This is a situation that should be considered and evaluated very carefully for Turkey. It's one of the most important problems this law brings. The motions we made at the point of eliminating this problem were clearly not enough to prevent it, but were rejected by the Commission with a majority understanding. Dear friends, number three: this law has never given consumers any ease. While this law was being discussed, Mr. Secretary claimed that the law would bring cheapness to consumers, with statements made at various meetings. What did he say? From now on, we reduce the lower limit in purchases, and the consumer will be able to negotiate in this sense, and its electricity will be cheaper by 15 per cent. This is not the minister's definition of 15 per cent, but that is the understanding reflected in the press. The press asked the citizens: "You'll get the electricity 15 percent cheaper, what do you say?" But, dear friends, does the consumer himself have a chance to negotiate in this market, which he will? Do you know what this looks like? A large chain of shopping is like the price the store buys from the factory, and the person who buys from that store with the power of bargaining, goes to that factory and says, "Give me the same price." In this market, it's made up of the power of buying and the pressure of buying power to compete at the price. If there's no pressure, there's no benefit to our citizens. Second, the issue of counters. In the matter of timers, the consumer has been clearly misinformed. Your words will change, but you will not pay. Is that even possible? The cost of changing the meter is passed and retrieved by distribution companies as the investment price. I want to underline something here. The ministry now makes all investments with all the money paid by consumers, without putting any money into it. As investors, those who have received the tender for distribution companies put money into investment plans without putting it into their budgets to invest, and according to their investment plans, they transfer them on those bills every year and receive serious money from consumers. The consumer's second challenge is the cost of missing fugitives. The missing fugitive is seriously Turkey's problem. This problem is a punishment for the consumer, for the decent person, for the person who pays the electricity money every day, for the person who pays the right person. In some distribution areas, the cost of illegal rates is being paid to people in areas that consume electricity correctly, over 90-95 per cent. This may be a fact of Turkey. The missing fugitive Turkey may be a fact, but it is not right for the Ministry to project itself and the distribution companies on its way out to consumers rather than to bring them in. So we made a suggestion, and we said, "My brother, let him put the missing fugitive into the Ministry budget, put it into the Ministry budget, and let everyone know that, and let them take care of it." But the Ministry has no intention of taking any steps in this matter either. Why should a person who pays for electricity in Istanbul, İzmir, or any other city in Anatolia have to pay for the negativeness of a person who uses illegal electricity? Dear friends, the detection of electricity prices is highly costly to consumers with very different names taken under the privatisation of distribution companies. As a result of the reflection of these costs, in Turkey, bills are very high. I'd like to tell you the components of a bill: the raw electricity price, 8 to 12 missing fugitives, 2 per cent TRT share, 5 per cent municipal consumption tax, 1 per cent energy fund share, 5 per cent electricity consumption tax, distribution price, retail sales service price, additional meter reading, transfer charge, and 18 per cent of this is reflected in the citizens' bill. It's not something that's reflected in the consumer that can make the industry competitive and competitive with the world's industry, nor can it allow people who consume electricity in their homes to live a peaceful life on a low-income salary. So we've given these reasons in commissions and motions during the negotiations of this entire law. Our goal is to ensure that the consumer has access to a quality, cheap, sustainable and modern technology, and that's how the Republican People's Party looks at it. With these feelings, we will try to support this law by doing the necessary work with our criticism and suggestions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0105par0104	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0106par0108	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group that we're meeting with on the 426th Amendment bill. I hereby salute the High Council and my fellow citizens who follow us. First of all, I'd like to express my thanks to Mr. Secretary for his sensitivity to what I'm saying today in the off-the-top conversation. At his instructions, our head of the Turkish Coal Company called me, and when he asked if he could get the relevant documents, I said to both of them, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Especially thank you, Mr. Secretary, in this matter, I believe that in the event of your continued sensitivity, some of the things in our country's institution that we don't like will be avoided. On this occasion, I thank him once again. Dear lawmakers, we wanted to contribute a great deal to this bill as the National Movement Party, and we wanted to very much; we appreciated some of our contributions, and during the commission talks, our valued members were included in the bill in order to organise the bill with their contribution. However, the bill, although it had become a need today, remained far from being a state-of-the-art bill, because the bill was prepared in a hurry on 17 December 2012, and a week after it was transferred to the Grand National Assembly of the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2012, it was transferred to commissions on 25 December 2012, except for the Energy Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission as a transfer commission, but no opinion of the Plan and Budget Commission was submitted to our Commission. So it wasn't seen there. The report, which the EU Integration Commission sent as a secondary commission, came to our Commission with statements stating that the bill was a conflicting, conflicting bill that contradicted EU directives, so the measures for environmental regulations were not taken enough. Despite these warnings and the written proposals of the EU Integration Commission, unfortunately, there has been no change at the core of the bill. So on one hand, we try to change our own laws to comply with EU law, but on the other hand, we prevent ourselves from taking a step towards it. That's what I want to express first in this sense. In essence, the bill consists of the update of Electric Market Law No. 4628, dated February 20, 2001. In other words, this main law has been split in two, its current state has come as the new Power Market Law, and the rest of its materials are divided into the agenda of the Supreme Assembly as the EPDK, the Power Market Editing Agency law. On the other hand, some of the original clauses of this bill, as you will recall, were legalized after the meeting of the Supreme Assembly, which was removed from the inside of the bill and made it an offer due to a shortage of time with Law No. 22 January 2013 and 6408. That's where we expressed some of our meetings. There were a number of important clauses in the Law on Electrical Marketing Law and the Law on Special Consumption Tax. One of the most important things: as of December 31, 2012, when the regional tariff expired, another three years were added to the national tariff, and the Council of Ministers was authorized to extend it for another five years. So with this arrangement, today it has been decided to continue the national tariff, which will be shared equally for 76 million Turks, such as the waste and other unnecessary consumption of 21 electricity distribution companies in Turkey, or the missing fugitives and so on across the electric distribution zone. I want to repeat: if there's a price to pay for living in this country, everyone has to pay it equally. But if people who don't pay the price for the electricity they use have to pay the people who pay the honest electric bill at the time, that's not fair, that's not worthy of the Supreme Assembly. So, that was one of the key factors of this proposal, where we made our objections, but unfortunately, the objections were not accepted there either. During the commission talks, we submitted motions for this in the main law. As Precious Sesam (Seam) has just stated, no clause of our law proposals have been added to this bill, although many of my fellow lawmakers have offered, for example, the missing fugitive price, such as the removal of the TRT share, the removal of the meter-reading price. So he landed here as he came from the government and changed the proposals of ruling party MPs in the Commission. Now, let's not kid each other. The MP's proposal states that these unfair payments must be removed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, they say that this unfair application must be lifted, but the government is attempting to pass through with materials, concealing in the law what it clearly does not say. Now, if you're going on the national rate, we're going to continue to make 76 million people -- whether they want to pay the electricity money or not -- to pay for the money that was wasted in this country and unfairly stolen electricity. If you're saying that, you're going to have to come down here and tell that to our saint nation. Therefore, we would like to make sure that this is definitely removed and that each region will take responsibility for its own missing fugitive, at least to ensure that these missing fugitives are prevented. Unfortunately, these have not been included in this arrangement, lawmakers have been ignored, some lawmakers have come to the Commission meetings to defend their proposal in the Commission and have offered their reasons, but unfortunately the government has continued to ignore them. Because already, a month ago, since he made this arrangement in January, these proposals were actually reduced, so there was no point in adding a law to this bill. First of all, I'd like to share this with you once again. On the other hand, the bill does not include any incentive for the production of electricity energy. We said, "Come, if this is a law that regulates the electricity market, let's take the law as a whole from production to distribution and the protection of consumers and add measures to support production here." But unfortunately, the government has ignored our proposals and has continued to display the habit of rejecting many reasonable proposals only because it comes from opposition parties during this bill talks. The consumer's rights are not protected. We said, "We wish for protection," we made offers about it, unfortunately, we didn't accomplish it successfully. Mr. Sesame has just expressed that I would like to once again share with you what a consumer is paying in addition to an active electricity cost: In addition to the price of active electricity, the distribution system pays the price of use, consumer. He already knew about the missing fugitive there, and he knew about the problems of the distribution system, and he offered according to this. Now, you've already taken it from the state by falling down during privatisation, and now you're saying, let's load it up to the electric consumer here. Second, the missing fugitive pays the price. I've just said that he's being honest, he doesn't use any illegal electricity, he pays the price regularly, but since someone else isn't paying the price for the electricity he's using on the run, we've decided to remove it. What else does he pay? The retail service pays the price. So we know that, again, it's already been paid in advance because it was known by retail distributors and, according to this, it was offered during privatisation. Pays the delivery price, pays the meter-reading price, pays the municipal consumption tax, pays the energy fund and pays the TRT share. Dear lawmakers, in some places, some subscribers have more than these additional payments cost active electricity. Now, is it possible to say yes to such an arrangement, or is it possible to consent? So at least in this arrangement, we decided to remove the additional payments that consumers, honest consumers, had to pay, and that's what the law proposals were for, unfortunately, we couldn't do it, we couldn't convince them. The government has also blocked that, and the motions on these issues have been rejected. Dear lawmakers are not only protected by consumer rights, but, on the other hand, the ownership of the counters is given to distribution companies. I'm asking you now: Can you say that any property that belongs to you -- no matter what it costs, no matter what it costs -- is worth a dollar, no matter how much -- without your consent -- I've made the law, I'm taking it away from you; I'm taking it away from you; I'm giving it to Mehmet. Can you say that? We said here, that's what we do in this law. The distribution companies are confiscating the counters with a statement called ▪ in exchange for the price of maintenance, which a consumer changed two days ago, after this law came into effect, the company came and bought your meter, replaced it with a new one. And two days ago, we market Turkey's priced for a slightly cheaper electric meter to be imported from abroad, or from abroad, before their economic lives are over. Now, we remove thousands of tradesmen from the production of electricity counters in Turkey, from the marketing of this, without any measures to protect it, at the mercy of the companies. Thus, this arrangement is also lacking in this aspect. At the very least, the amount of time that generates an electric meter was to be protected, and the amount of time that did not expire in economic life was to be taken out of the scope of this arrangement, with Turkey and the nation's interests taken into account, with an economic life filled up, and we couldn't convince it. Now, if these rightful suggestions are not taken into account by the government, then we need to understand what the intentions behind this place are. Now, with this arrangement, you didn't increase production, you didn't give producers any incentive; that's how we change the marketing of the electricity energy that we produce, especially when we depend on imported energy, we allow new supply companies to be created, so-called, by allowing consumers to get electricity at any price they want, and in this law that we're doing for a very good and positive reason, in the background, we're making arrangements that allow new companies to be born, to be distributed to new sides of the market. So, in this case, in the future, the consumer will not get a chance to buy cheaper electricity than today because you didn't take any measures to prevent missing fugitives, you didn't set additional measures to guarantee supply safety, support production. So, unless we increase the amount of energy we can generate from our own domestic and renewable energy sources, you've also captured 76 million at the price of natural gas, the price of natural gas the President of the Russian Federation will set between two lips. Hence, this arrangement did not include them. In that sense, we hope that the shortcomings of this will be met here, or we hope that these shortcomings will be met with the contributions the members of the General Assembly will make to our motions. If the attitude in the Commission, as soon as this law comes out, we have to take it out. If this attitude continues here, I believe that the Supreme Assembly will only increase its number of laws in numbers, but will not be satisfied with its laws. These flaws must be repaired. It also opened the way for outside service for licensed persons to operate under their licenses. So, licensed manufacturers or distributors will now be entering Turkey's gangrenous subcontractor system in this sector as well. Come on, let's set this up, don't open the way for this sector, let's not give this sector the right to employ subcontractors while the victims of workers who work with the subcontractor system and the family cries that this system has caused in Turkey are obvious, let's at least set it up by setting up certain rules. So one of the most important flaws in this bill is that we can't put the arrangement for this system here. However, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, at every turn, tells the television that the arrangements for this matter continue, that the work is being carried out -- we've been hearing these words for four, five years -- we all know what the workers in subcontractors are going through and what they're paying for in this country. Now, this wasn't in the industry, and this is what we're adding to this sector, so this bill, in this case, has a serious flaw, and we think it should be arranged. And at the beginning of my speech, I said, there's a deadline here until 2018 for arrangements to harmonise production facilities with environmental legislation. We have given an additional period of time for filtering and regulation of environmental legislation, which has previously been set as 2017, since current energy-producing thermal power plants and other plants continue to have these difficulties. Dear lawmakers, right now the thermal power plants are part of this government's privatisation. So, while the President of the Privatisation Administration is rapidly continuing the privatisation of these plants, we say on the other hand: these plants are in the tender stage, I don't have any regulations until 2018 anyway, I have time. We're bringing in an arrangement that will be sold at a price below the price they deserve. Because he thinks the price will be set, they will have the right price in the free market, but unfortunately, with this arrangement, the length of the deadline, there's also a lack of that. As a matter of fact, many such issues have been pointed out in the EU Integration Commission, but no provisions of the secondary commission report have been taken into consideration and the bill has not been compiled. It's an important issue and a very important issue: in the interim Article 14/th article of the bill, with the government's permission, it's started building with writings taken from the relevant ministries, it's stopped construction due to some of the major problems of the investment plants, and now we're putting an arrangement here, with an arrangement that ignores the judicial decisions on these plants, you should consider your decisions, come in, continue your investment from where you left. Now, that means we're in denial of ourselves. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thus, the substance must be revised, at least outside the scope of the HESEs. Therefore, I will continue to share our views on other matters in the future and in the matter. I wish the bill to be a blessing. I salute your grand delegation again with the hope that you will support our motions on the issues we have indicated.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0107par0140	Thank you. Mr. Sesame, go ahead and fix it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0108par0144	Mr. President, after the microphone went off, I made a promise in my statement to correct the situation in the transcripts. My last sentence is that we don't support this law with these feelings. I give you all my respects. It's in the shape of a man. Fix it, and I'll give it to your attention.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0109par0152	On behalf of the individuals, Adana MP Umit Özüşük. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0156	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of my own people regarding the Electric Market Bill of Law. I salute you all with love and respect. My party friend, who was just speaking, said that we started discussing one of Turkey's most important issues today, the energy issue, the electricity issue, is a very important issue, economically and strategically, and one of the laws that should be considered very seriously. The need for energy is growing. In the period of industrialisation after World War II, especially in the last 20 years, the need for energy in Turkey, as well as in the entire world, is increasing and increasing more and more rapidly than planned. Turkey, unfortunately, is completely dependent on the outside. Mistakes made in the past, the lack of natural resources in Turkey, present this problem in Turkey today. Today, as of 2011, Turkey imports 63 per cent of its total imported oil from Iran and Russia, and again 77 per cent of natural gas from Iran and Russia alone. Now, because of the energy policies that we've applied to a painting like this, the energy produced by local resources over the years would have to increase, but unfortunately it's been reversed because of the wrong policies that have been going on for so many years. The energy produced from domestic resources in 1990 dropped from 48.1 per cent to 33 per cent in 2000, to about 27 per cent in 2012, unfortunately. In this regard, we need to run parallel policies in international relations as well as in terms of medium and long-term investments in energy, the right strategies, the right laws, but we need to create policies that put our own interests, our energy interests first, and we need to implement these policies. Dear friends, the concept of energy security in the world has become very prominent. According to the international general agreement, energy security is to be able to provide the country's, industry, consumer needs electricity with reasonable price, cutbacks and minimum risk and implement these policies in the foreseeable time. So, in order for Turkey to apply energy security, it would have to be directed to such policies, but unfortunately, Turkey is doing the opposite of that, and especially countries like Iran, which I just counted, especially in Russia, are now having the same kind of trouble with Iraq, and taking serious risks in foreign relations. I told you a while ago, we're in a real war with a thousand lies in our neighbor Syria. Dear friends, ten years ago, 12 years ago, Iraq had atomic weapons, weapons of mass destruction. Whatever lies, the Syrian government is killing the people in Syria today. The same way is a lie, and Turkey is in an unnamed war there with a strategy based on this lie, and this war continues. Our Foreign Minister, who couldn't see the tip of his nose, who couldn't see tomorrow, said that Assad would leave in 15 days, no, in a month and a half, no, in two months, in two years... now, two years later, the Assad administration continues, and as someone who knows the area closely, and who knows Syria well, I'm afraid you'll regret it, for another two years or four years. Because in Syria, the people, your people, are slaughtering Esad. The people you call imperialism are organized against imperialism, and the Salvation War, like our militia, is formed there, where the militias have formed, and they are cleaning up the emperors of imperialism from their territory. That's how you get this energy...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0163	Shame, shame! You can't back up a massacre like that.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0164	Don't talk, don't talk. Don't chitchat, sit down!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0165	You can't back up a massacre like that!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0166	That's what I say. We're telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0167	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0168	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0169	Who is slaughtering these people!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0170	The embodiment of shameful imperialism, the subcontractors.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0171	Who is slaughtering these people!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0172	Don't talk too much!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0173	This is not Syria's parliament! Shame!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0174	We can talk outside later if you want, but don't talk about it!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0111par0175	You're the chatterbox!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0176	Sit down!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0112par0177	Mr. Ozgimi, please... Dear Metiner, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0179	Clown!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0113par0180	You're the butcher, you're the clown!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0181	Come over here!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0113par0182	I'll come!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0110par0183	Come!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0113par0184	Come, you!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0114par0185	Oh, come on! [[Umit Özşımım and Mehmet Metiner have walked on each other in front of the AK PARTY]] Mr. Özþümýmý... Mr. Özþümýk, please...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0115par0188	I'll fucking kill you! Asshole!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0116par0189	You're an asshole!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0115par0190	Look, when you found the crowd out there again, you started talking.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0116par0191	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit02spe0117par0192	I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit03spe0117par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we closed, I'm sure we all had an incident that caused our grief. In the meantime, I would like to request each and every one of our members, both of our members, the members of the group. We are obliged to protect the kindness of the House, its speech, its conversation, and a nervous structure that means that it will harm us all in the presence of our nation. Now, I'm going to invite the group presidents back if possible, and then I'm going to come back and resume the merger. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0117par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, in the previous session, the statement was not appropriate for the General Assembly. Those words in the heat of the discussion did not suit the MPs, nor did the General Assembly. Therefore, I'm going to make a promise to our two groups of vice presidents. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0118par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. There may be moments of tension at times during the General Assembly talks, but no matter how tense the atmosphere is, certain things must not be said, but in the moment of tension, certain words, certain words that we don't desire, can come out of the mouths of our friends. I'm sure Mr. Hope-Pretty put in some words he didn't want, as he spoke in a tense atmosphere. In his true style, in his world, there is no place for such words. I don't think such a statement should be in the General Assembly, and I'd like to continue these negotiations in a more appropriate manner in the following talks. I'm sorry about the way you sound. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0119par0010	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0120par0012	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our Civil Code has arranged which way of speaking in the General Assembly, but you can appreciate that it is our kindness, our mutual sensitivity. So the main thing is how much we follow the rules that determine the greatness of a general council. But unfortunately, especially in the last three weeks, this General Assembly has been staged by the words that we can't accept for certain, that we can't mutually accept as the entire group as vice presidents. You said it was you, and I said it wasn't right to do any accounting on it. As the AK PARTY, we, the AK PARTY, assure you that no word or deed of any kind from our group will be appropriate to the scope of this General Assembly, to the greatness of the Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0119par0014	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0120par0015	In the same way, I believe our other group of vice presidents have this understanding, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0119par0016	Thank you. Members of the Parliament organise that the Civil Code shall not be separated from the subject discussed according to Article 66, and that a clean language should be used in the General Assembly of the 67th Amendment, and that there shall be no harsh and hurtful words spoken. I ask that all lawmakers be sensitive to the ability to conduct talks healthy and efficient, to avoid tensions, and to use a clean language. We will continue the talks on all of the Law Bill 426 rows. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now it's time for Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0121par0029	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we're making a lot of arrangements here today to consider the more orderly functioning of the energy sector, especially as a public and private sector. So far, I'd like to thank all the friends who've been making speeches, making suggestions, making recommendations. This law, of course, needs our country, and we need to be able to do it in this dynamic process, along with all aspects of the developing Turkey. I'll make up for the amount of time we've lost -- there'll be a lot of talks, Mr. President, if you'd like, and I'll just talk about it in general. To speak in other episodes, I offer you all my respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0122par0034	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last word on behalf of the individuals is Mr. Mustafa Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0123par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the Power Market Bill 426 rows. I salute you all. Before I started my speech, last week, we attended a meeting of the European Union Energy Committee with four of our friends in Brussels about the countries in the accession process. I'm proud to say that Turkey is ahead of many European countries with its institutionalisation of energy and its breakthroughs. I'd like to present this to the public. Given the general situation, the need for energy is constantly increasing because of population growth, industrialisation and urban development in the world. In particular, energy strategies were formed after fossil resources, such as oil, natural gas, discovered in the early 1990s. The rate of electricity production from fossil fuels has grown to significant proportions over time. Fossil fuels have reduced, cost increases, and outside dependency has led almost every country to seek alternative resources. What are the fundamental elements and problems of energy policy? Supply security, competition and price, sustainability, outside dependency, alternative energy pathways. According to some commentators, many wars around the world are expressed because of the desire to have energy sources. For whatever reason, countries with capital, knowledge and energy resources continue to design the world. What is the energy policy in our country? Our country's growing economy has become the country with the highest growing need for energy as a result of its growing prosperity. To meet the increasing demand, policies have been developed for supply security, external dependency and competition, alternative and renewable energy sources. As a result, electricity production has increased the proportion of sources such as hydroelectrics, coal and wind, and our efforts to build a nuclear power plant continue. What are the important needs in energy, the work that needs to be done? What's in it with this law? The first is investment. In order to meet the increasing energy demand, provide supply security, private sectors must be opened up and liberalised, both domestic and foreign investors must be encouraged. That's what the law provides. Considering we need $128 billion in energy investments by 2020, we need huge numbers. The second one is production. The diversification of production resources, the introduction of domestic and renewable energy sources. As a matter of fact, in 2005, the law on renewable energy sources, electricity production, increased the rate in production by promoting and promoting changes in 2010, not enough. Especially the wind, the sun, and the geothermal, and the biomass, we have to incorporate more energy resources into the system. We're still working on it. Turkey is a country with significant potential in renewable energy. In 2010, about 26 per cent of total electricity production was obtained from such sources. Compared to European members, our country currently has a higher renewable energy share and is aimed at boosting it. The most important share of renewable energy production in our country is hydroelectric and biomass. The share of wind and solar energy is not yet enough, but we know that recently, especially with support for wind energy, this share has grown substantially. Another thing is energy efficiency and savings. Again, in the period of EC PARTI rulings, awareness and sensitivity on this issue increased by the law issued in 2009, providing serious funding for our country's economy. With heating, transportation, home appliances and equipment in the industry, we can save up to six to 10 billion dollars a year in lighting. We all realize how important 10 billion is when our total energy imports are $60 billion. So we have to continue our work on this with increasing intensity. Another issue -- our speakers have mentioned it again -- unfortunately, not positive -- is the assessment of our country's geographical position. We can turn the bridge position into an advantage between the east-west, north-south. As a matter of fact, I'd like to pass on some work on it to you. Turkey is using its position well, and it will continue to use it. One of them is the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project (TANAP) which was signed on June 26, 2012 in Istanbul, where production in Azerbaijan was moved to Europe by a pipeline via Turkey. As a result of this project, the Western Nabucco Project will be merged with the project, bringing these resources to Europe. Nuclear energy is another source of energy that will satisfy our needs. Turkey is dependent on imports, as we all know, in terms of hydrocarbon resources. We've all agreed to diversify our energy sources that provide increased energy supply security. Meanwhile, global climate change created by hydrocarbon sources appears to be a serious global problem. Because of the increasing demand for energy in our country, the decision to reduce external dependence in energy and use nuclear energy in energy production has been made, the establishment of two nuclear plants has been determined as of 2030, the work of the first has been continued, and it has been decided that 10 percent of our energy will be supplied from nuclear energy. One of these will be built in Akkuyu, as you know. The work is under the framework of an intergovernmental agreement signed between our country and RF on 12 May 2010 and approved between the two countries. Both the work and the talks are being carried out in Sinop. In this regard, high-level security measures will provide nuclear energy for our country, especially given the circumstances that have arisen after the earthquake in Japan. Otherwise, we can't maintain our energy supply and continuity. As a matter of fact, our country has volunteered and supports its activities in the project in Europe, which envisions a series of stress tests to test whether nuclear plants within the EU are safe or not. Another issue is that by increasing RD investments -- which are available to transform energy sources such as rock gas, hydrogen, boron -- which is in our government's work -- we can create more resources from here, and we can meet our energy needs. Another thing is environmental sensitivity. On the one hand, we're going to help us grow economically, and on the other hand, we're going to be environmentally sensitive; we're going to leave a good environment for future generations, a habitable environment, by taking measures that will minimize environmental impacts. Now, again, I want to give you some numbers: the world's energy demand was 200 quadrillion BTUs in the 1970s, and it's constantly increasing to 500 quadrillion today, and it's expected to exceed 600 quadrillion BTU in 2020. This increase is two and a half times the average world growth. Especially after China, and after that, Turkey is at the top of the most energy-enhancing countries. As a result of the study, our demand for electricity energy will reach 450 terawatts per 2023. Our use of electricity in the industry increased by twice as much as in 2001. Again, a projection of natural gas to 2023 is intended to increase natural gas to 25,000 megawatts, twice the hydrologic power, to 34,000 megawatts, and to increase our wind-based power by 10 times the size of 20,000 megawatts. The additional 6,000 megawatt nuclear power plant is also planned to be activated. According to our energy ministry's calculations, these investments I've just mentioned are worth 128 billion dollars. The first electric car was built in 1838 by Scottish inventor Robert Davidson. In the 1890s, the sale began in Europe and in the United States. In 1905, more electric vehicles were sold in the streets of the United States than in gasoline. But what happened? With fossil fuels found in the 1920s, again, in the 1920s, the development of the technology of internal combustion engines, the discovery of large oil fields, lowering refined costs, more quickly and more economically, the electric cars lost the race. What we understand is that we have to provide energy in terms of economic, timely, and the user's preference. That's what the AK PARTY authorities do. As stated above, it is envisioned by this law that the needed investment is supported by private sector dynamics. Again, when we look at it, the private sector share, which was 38 per cent in 2002, increased to 61 per cent by 2012. Thus, quickly liberalisation of the market has been enabled to open up to competition, with this law, and it will also be provided. Again, when we look at it, competition is created, audit boards are set up, and the European Union's request is in this acquisitor of the European Union. Thus, Turkey has become ready for this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, I wish you all the best of this law, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0124par0064	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Moving on to QA. Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0125par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, national electricity schedules are being implemented in 21 electric distribution zones in Turkey, and electricity missing money across our country is being collected by reflecting on all subscribers. When the subscribers saw that they were paying for the electricity stolen by others on their bills, the reactions started to increase. As a result, the distribution companies launched a new application, and the missing illegal cost department from the bills was completely removed. After January 2013, electricity subscribers no longer see the missing illegal cost department in their bills and the money they pay, but continue to pay for illegal electricity through other invoice pens. Despite all measures taken in Turkey, electricity is unable to prevent loss of power. In some counties, illegal electricity consumption still exceeds 80 per cent. What added to the use of technological resources to ensure that the punishments brought to prevent honest consumers from paying the money of electricity stolen by others and to ensure the pursuit of the fugitive...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0126par0071	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0127par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. The watering companies established for farmers have debt to electricity management in many parts of our country. These debts are now unrefundable, with interest increasing exponentially. As a government, will any work be done on the removal or restructuring of debts? That's what I want to know. The second question is: In our country, systems designed to obtain solar energy are very expensive and are not seen as random. Are there studies as a ministry on how to build and support these systems cheaply? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0128par0076	Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0129par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to the price of electric use of electricity in households, electricity bills are seriously raised due to many pens added under the name tax, funds and various cuts. This is met with a huge response among our citizens. The answer to a question proposal that I have recently submitted is one of the objectives of our Ministry, which is to reduce or remove pencils, such as funds, taxes, or taxes. In this frame, I'd like to ask you: is there any work that you're already conducting on this subject, if you already have it, at what stage is it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0130par0080	Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0131par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a document given to the Energy Commission by your Ministry shows remarkable information in the case of licenses and progress in the electricity energy supply security document: Applying to natural gas plants, reviewing, evaluation, licenses, and if they all come to life, a potential of 65, 000 megawatts will be revealed. On the other hand, when licenses for imported coal-based power plants come to life, a facility of 26,000 megawatts will be activated there. So these two pens look like extraordinary high numbers, numbers that will increase our dependency on the outside much more. Are those numbers really true?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0132par0084	Mr. Ugly...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0133par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, our farmer's condition is very bad, they're farming under exceptional circumstances, and they're suffering from electrical debt. First of all, the question of monthly payment in electricity is challenging the farmer. The farmer doesn't grow cucumbers, and the cucumber grows in 40 days. He's got a problem with that. Do you think these payments should be adjusted to the seasonal product pattern? Do you also plan to bring this configuration to a point where the farmer can pay more, along with a restructuring of debt related to agricultural irrigation and deletion of past interest? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0134par0090	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0135par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, where are we with the construction of nuclear power plants? We monitor it from time to time in the media, and it's said that you have some work in Akkuyu, Sinop. Can you explain the final point? Second, which are the cities where there are still the most missing power rates? How many people have been processed in these provinces by the Ministry so far? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0136par0094	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0137par0095	Mr. President, I couldn't get into the system, so can I ask you a question?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0136par0096	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0137par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, last year, TETAS made 14.8 per cent of the price of electricity retail, but it didn't go to consumers, it stayed on distribution companies. That's 14.8 per cent retail for, I think, $2 quadrillion 600 trillion. Who gets this money, so who gets this treatment at the sale price of TETASH? Second: How much does the tender cost for the distribution zones of electricity distributed by 21 distribution companies from distribution companies? Are there any of these who haven't paid their tenders in time, who are they? What kind of transactions are performed on those who do not pay their installments? That's what I want to know, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0138par0101	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0139par0102	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, thank you for the questions. I'll try to answer it quickly. Turkey has 21 power distribution companies, there is AC, and there has been an election between national tariffs and regional tariffs. Normally, there was a national recipe for 31/12/2012, and it is brought to the agenda of the General Assembly, again, whether the deadline will be extended or not. This means, you know, from Edirne to Kars, from Sinop to Hatay, that all electricity prices are fixed and that the price will continue in each region in this way. This is the national rate. Regional tariff: Again, as you know, 21 of these companies are being created pricing mechanisms by considering the missing fugitive rates and performance values. We wondered whether Turkey was ready for this or not; we saw that Turkey is not ready for this right now. There are several reasons for that. So in the same province, let's say in Eskişehir, it's possible to diversify these examples of a person using 42 cents and using the same amount of 21 cents. Our main objective is that we're heading in the right direction on the missing fugitive right now, our targets are correct. I'll explain two areas -- again -- when we remove the Tigris and Van District...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0140par0105	Is it a separate place, Minister? How do you get it out?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0139par0106	Turkey's missing fugitive average is 9.4 per cent. That means that it's lower than the average European Union member states. So we're doing the right thing, but where are we missing? This is related to the two regions, and one of them has a missing fugitive rate that is far above the average of Turkey in the six counties that concern us. It's the right procedure, it's the right way to follow it, but it's got to be a much clearer way to apply it in these provinces. We've been asked if we're going to do a new configuration on issues related to irrigation troops by our fellow lawmakers. Dear friends, a debt of $2.6 billion had been raised by our farmers and irrigation troops, but unfortunately, even though we said that we would get the original money, there has been a configuration application around 25 percent of the total amount so far. From now on, you'll appreciate that in order to establish justice, we don't have the authority to forgive the real money right now. Whether we have the authority or not, it's not right, and we're not thinking about a new configuration. Now, we have farmers who owe us... especially those who have paid us interest... and who have reached up to thirty-six months... and who have paid their debts, and we have farmers who continue to do so, and we thank them for that. ▪ Is solar energy cheap? Do we have any backup? Is it not cheap enough? The cost of the sun continues to decline because the world's technology is rapidly but rapidly improving. It's normally two acres, two and a half acres of one megawatts, and it's down to one acres now, including the one megawatt sun. In that sense, we don't think of giving separate support, but we've come up with a law that will ensure that any investor that produces solar energy for ten years is bought with $13.3 cents, if he can't sell it on the free market, if he can't evaluate it, if he can't, then he can be bought by the public, together, with your support. Of course, in electricity bills, we're dealing with funds, taxes, BTV, TRT, all kinds of funds and tuitions, as we wrote, our main goal is, of course, structures that are partly or completely removed, work. Currently, a $100 bill in gas or mazotta covers between $62 and $68. And again, I'm going to say that we have almost 40 euros in electricity bills, and we have tax, and we have BTV, STV, VAT, VAT, and I'm going to talk about all sorts of funds, and I'm going to say that all of these decisions have to be made in one form, but I'd like to repeat once again that this is our goal in the end. Such natural gas licenses have been asked about whether or not licenses obtained from either 65 thousand or 26,000 megawatts of EPDK will be available for such import energy. Of course, it doesn't seem possible for all of this to happen right now. Besides, we've removed incentives from the gas plants since 31 June 2012, my friends. We encouraged local coal, both in the sense that we didn't encourage import energy very much and that our local coal resources could be used more often, and we also included the incentive for coal plants to produce electricity from local coal. The private sector will look: where is the market going? What can they do for themselves in that competitive environment? Is there any forward competitiveness or not? What will he be able to do in the long run? Of course he's counting on it. Our goal is to find that instead of using natural gas to produce electricity, we all find it to be used together as a source of energy in industrial production in the cities where we get rid of this pollution and we get fresh air. We're trying to spread it out in that sense. Our Prime Minister's views, statements, statements have been shared with the public. In our 81 counties, even if we don't have physics in each of our provinces, we will continue to do so. But again, we don't intend to take too much advantage of natural gas plants in electricity production. We know that with the nuclear power plants that we're going to build and we're going to run with determination, the nuclear power plants are going to activate, and one of them is going to generate about 40 billion kilowatt hours of electricity. Likewise, we will see that a $3.6 billion import of natural gas will be stopped in order to produce it from natural gas. So we're thinking of replacing nuclear power plants like the Ataturk Dam, like Keban, not instead of the dams like Karakaya -- we're not thinking of privatising them, they're going to be in the hands of the public -- but we're also thinking of replacing them with gas plants. So we know that both our dependence on imports is going to be reduced and we're going to skip a segment in industrialization of nuclear power plants. An important question has been asked, of course, about the periodical and the monthly bills that our farmers will pay. Dear friends, from 1994, three ways of paying this way were shared with our farmers. THE decision made by the governing boards of TEDAS is primarily about one year -- not an cycle -- when our farmers pay for it at the end of a year. We had a meeting with 42 of our irrigation co-ops, and we said, "What kind of payment would you like?" They were told that one year's electricity bills were too heavy for them and that they were having trouble paying. Well, then, what do you have to do? Another one of their solution proposals was about monthly payments. Before that, they had plans to pay for the periodical. All three of them were applied. But more than that, there was a tendency to give up on each of them. It was a decision we made, not just with ourselves, but also with watering co-ops and irrigation troops. So, now, again, I'm thinking about how much the issue of giving up on this is going to lead to, again, a little more discussion. He was asked about the development of nuclear plants in Akkuyu and Sinop. In Akkuyu, there are now 88 separate arrangements in 11 basic topics, related to ground corrections, ground ethics and increased security systems after Fukushima, even to cause a one-year delay. Without a doubt, hopefully, it will be Turkey's most reliable structure, and we're trying to make sure there's at least one of the buildings at risk. Of course, the fault line we can see isn't normally there, but the company -- the project company -- has started a new study on all fault lines. The company that's going to put the money in there, finance it, do it. So they're going to do whatever research they need to do, and they're going to start building it. There's also a village that's supposed to be built, a big village. Such a lovely village is expected to be built, with all its social utensils, to address about 12,000 populations and to build projects that the workers there can work on during the time of the montage. Akkuyu is just going on and on. The last time we said we could explain it was at the end of December 2012, but before each statement, we saw that another country felt the need to give different prices, to suggest different conditions because of another company's competition. This is a happy thing for Turkey, and it's good for Turkey to have these prices in competition. From that point of view, right now the countries are continuing to do so. However, we started with four countries, Canada was a little bit more distant than this race. We can't say they're getting too involved in this competition right now. So if they don't have a different offer at the last minute, I have to say that Canada is a little bit out of the race right now, as of today. We have two areas with the highest number of missing fugitives, and as I mentioned again, one of them is Tigris. We have cities such as Urbana, Diyarbakır, Mardin, Batman, Bingol. The total number of missing fugitives in our provinces has increased to around 72 per cent. Of course, that's a very high number for us, an unacceptable number. We've replaced some of the administrative staff there, but it's about illegal use, and when we went there to cut the power, even some of our security forces had a coup d'état. They said themselves that we didn't find it very right, through our governor... that when we went back there to cut it off, it was a serious struggle. So, in that sense, we have no tolerance. Honest, in order to protect the bills of our citizens who have paid on time, we have to collect them. We went, and we explained in many ways, and we explained that it was not true, and we said that it included both the right of the subject and the right of the state. Of course, we need to present 21 paintings of both natural gas and electricity distribution services, the tenders, which are instalments, and the ones that don't pay, at what rate they pay. That's not enough time here, but we can get that painting ready and present it to any of our friends who want it.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0141par0119	Question in question... answer me!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0139par0120	HOW was it reflected, how was it not reflected, and for what reason was it done between institutions? Of course, we also have to present these. If I have time, I can tell you all about it. Now, as of 2012, Şırnak, Mardin, Diyarbakır... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0142par0124	Mr. President didn't answer our question properly. TETAŞ's retail sales prices have been reduced by 14.8%, and 21 distributors have remained above their companies. He didn't transfer the money to the consumer around 3 quadrillion. Why won't he tell me why he's avoiding it? After that, there are people from the distributor firms who don't pay their payments on time, so why don't they explain it here? I mean, that's what he has to say. When he left Kayseri and the nearby Electric Company, he was given a $10 billion carpet, and he didn't answer. He was given an advance of 10 billion to travel to Europe, and he didn't answer. $16 billion, so...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0143par0126	He's out of time, Mr. Young Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0142par0127	Let him answer here, my dear!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0143par0128	That's it! The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 25th article. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan wants to speak on chapter one. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0144par0136	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Secretary, have finally found the scientific data of the missing fugitive ratio -- who's in charge, who's in charge -- who's in charge. He's been saying that at press conferences, and Hasip Kaplan says, "Don't pay for their electricity." Mr. Secretary, remove this statement from me somewhere, in a statement from the Plan Budget Commission or the General Assembly, and I will resign by apologizing to everyone. And if you can't, what are you going to do? I'll leave that to the public conscience. If you don't speak the truth, you'll get electrocuted, Mr. Secretary, I swear to God you'll get hit.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0145par0137	The power's not working.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0144par0138	I mean, you're creating an image from the provinces of the east and southeast, assuming that there's 72 percent of a missing fugitive in the two-thirds of the country, and you're making it look like you're saying 72 percent of the number of Turkey's missing illegal electricity is less than a thousand to five percent, it's a shame! It's not scientific data, it's lousy data, guys. Let's have a conscience, let's be human, let's be true, let's be honest. Look, isn't 48 percent of electricity from the GAP project? Let's count the Ataturk Dam, Keban Dam, Karakaya. Don't you get 48 percent electricity from the waters of the east and southeast from this dam? You'll take it. How much electricity is this? What percentage of the revenue that you've invested in this powered area -- you're from here -- is that what you've invested in? Since you haven't built 40 years of water channels, the GAP project's watering has not reached Mardin Plain for 40 years. In Şanlıurfa, you accuse 10 MPs of stealing your province, shame, shame. If you had water out there, if you had watered the canals, if you had watered them, the citizen wouldn't have drilled water from the ground, or farmed water. You put a meter on the power, and it wasn't enough; the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting finally took out the law to put a meter in the water he took out on his property. I swear to God, congratulations are in order! You've got an electric meter, you've got a water meter! Now, you don't perform this 40-year-old project in Şanliurfa, the accumulated debts in the agricultural irrigation... then should I go out now and reveal the election results of Şanlıurfa and say that the AKP people are thieves? Can I have such a bad conscience? It's a conscience, for God's sake! Look, when a plane lands on the Kızıltepe Plain from Mardin to Viranşehir, isn't it drilled and powered up in those fields? It's coming out. You've been in power for 12 years, when are you going to water this place? No. I'll tell you what I saw the other day, Mr. Secretary. Your words provoke people in a different way. The other day, four Panzers, one prosecutor and over 30 special teams raided an officer's house. Can you imagine, fellas? What's wrong with illegal electricity in an officer's house? 72% of illegal electricity is not worth 1 percent of the entire region's illegal electricity in Istanbul, friends. It's not equal to the fugitive of a factory on an organized industrial site the entire east, southeast used. That's enough! It's stealing all the time! They're the thieves who take the source there, take the source there, don't invest in it, don't water it, they're the thieves, they're the best at stealing! See, since 2001 as a private sector, you've built HESEs in energy, you've built nuclear plants, you've built imported coal ports, it's built for coal from Africa and Ukraine to the Black Sea, both for the Mediterranean and for the Ukraine. Şırnak has one thermal power plant, and there are two power plants via fuel oil; there are seven applications, all of them, coal plants everywhere. Now, there's this thing called the environment, there's this thing called nature, there's this thing called history. People ask me that, and they're gonna ask me right. There's nothing more natural than people asking. Now, look, there are letters that come to me, and these letters are so painful that they speak the truth. It is said that without planning a holistic basin over a valley, the DSI, EPDK, Environment, Forest, Tourism all make decisions that can cause irreparable damage, and the law of natural destruction completes one another. They're a circle of people who've already completed each other, along with the law of putting counters in the water. Look, the letter says that if you don't leave without life and people, you won't get results here. Speak up in the House. Be our voice with the Electric Market Bill of the Law. It's from Rize. He told of the Valley of Storms; then Artvin told of Camili, and then he told of the Valley of Camili with the Nuts, and the Valley of Senoz, the valley of Çayeli, and all of them, all of them, to the valley of Askoroz, which is south of the Prime Minister's village, and to the valley of Rize, until the valley of Yazdere. This is the law that feeds the private sector, encourages it, supports it... but does it have an energy policy for production? No. Is there a plan? No. If we know how many companies there have been, if we know how many companies there have been in the process of natural gas and oil-related conflicts in the Middle East, in Cyprus and in Northern Cyprus basins, in front of Syria, and in Lebanon, to the oil-natural gas line connecting to Kerkuk. It's not the public benefit, it's the benefit of the individual, it's the benefit of the party, it's the benefit of the company. Their interests mean this country's 100 billion-dollar import energy deficit. I will not go into all of this from here to Munzur, to Hasankeyf, but there is a fact: you get a TRT share of electricity. It's a conscience! We're a group in this House. What's the broadcast time you gave us? Get out, tell me the truth. If you say that, the citizen will laugh at you, you know, because you're not giving him any room. You created a hostile TRT, a media. Well, don't they ask you, then why are you taking the electric share and wasting it here? Well, don't they ask you, what kind of conscience do you still get the money for illegal electricity from, who pays for it? If you can't collect illegal electricity money, then management can't. Ben, let me be clear: it's not about that, it's about monopoly in the energy sector, conglomeration. We know who's running this market, we know his union, we know his business community, we know his international connections. Let them pass so much, but let them pass, let them pass through with their philosophy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you'll go out, and you'll tell your people you're a thief...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0146par0150	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0144par0151	...we're gonna find out who the real thieves are, we're gonna grab him, and we're gonna pay for it. We say that's our opposition mission. I'm also inviting the Minister to come to the stand for his statements, if he has any such words, I'll apologize from here. If he can't take it off, he can apologize himself. That's what I say in a gentleman's way.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0146par0154	Thank you. Oh, don't be such a gentleman!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0144par0156	It's going well, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0146par0157	So let's keep it that way. Look at him! On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Bahattin Sugar. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0147par0161	Mr. President, very dear MPs, when I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the first chapter of Electric Market Law Bill 426. As it is known, our country is of strategic and geopolitical importance as well as its geographical location. Between Asia and Europe, the Middle East, the Caucasus, the Balkans, the Black Sea and Mediterranean basins meet at the bridge as the central location of the bridge, and is the subject of a vast and ancient field of civilization. As of this location, historical mission and vision, our country has very important opportunities. Of course, such a position brings with it threats as well as opportunities. Looking at the problems we face as a country today, it seems that this location and the historical mission have failed to achieve the capacity required in all areas. For the next decades, advances in the field of energy will guide. In this sense, there will be a balance between countries that generate energy in the world and countries that try to exist in energy, which are dependent on energy, and of course, there will be a lot of producers. From this point of view, we need to evaluate our time, our potential, and our resources. There are many areas where we're late, but time flies, and wherever the damage is returned, it's a profit. Since there is no energy policy, which has been led by local resources, which is open to development, efficient and productive, problems in the energy sector, which cannot contribute to the economy, have once again come to our attention with this bill. Of course, we know that the main purpose of this bill is the creation of a strong, stable, transparent energy market and an independent regulation and control of this market. Although the bill is more relevant to the electricity market, the fundamental issue is that for many years, our country's dependence on the outside has reached its peak in energy markets. Yes, intelligent thinkers consider and evaluate the problem by taking action from this foundation to determine and implement solutions. So, naturally, we're questioning this outside dependency, we're trying to help develop solutions, and we're trying to help run a national policy, and we're asking for that sensitivity. The attitude in energy markets, which so far should be considered in a multi-directional and deep range, has become a complete mess because of external-dependent policies. This is one of our country's biggest dilemmas. In our country, the proportion of energy demand to be met by domestic production is increasing, and the cost to our country, of course, is very high. In the world of the future, it is most likely that the diversity of energy sources will be decisive. In this sense, Turkey should now activate the infrastructure of wind, sun, geothermal energy production; waiting on it is equivalent to mortgageing the country's fate. In view of the overall drafting of this law, radical changes are being brought up as a goal, especially for the production of electricity. In fact, the bill upgraded the license limit to 1 megawatt in energy facilities from 500 kilowatts. This is a really good and positive development. In the coming period, it will be mandatory to increase it, even to increase it to two or three megawatts. But other than that, it seems to be far from protecting consumer rights, given its content. This is one of the most important issues of the matter. The most important thing we're referring to is consumer rights, the cost of using a new load on our nation's shoulders. The costs reflected in the bills are on the agenda, but there's still no change. The TRT contribution, which has been implemented by the government and mentioned earlier by the Minister, is again reflected in the bills and continues to be collected from the citizens. In fact, this decision leads to unfair competition with other television channels. Another remarkable issue of the bill is the ownership of the electric meter. In the meantime, the counters will be left to distribution companies in exchange for maintenance costs, so changing the meter and getting the money from our citizens will make the property issue more uncomfortable for our institutions and the Ministry, which are relevant in the coming days. In this sense, our proposals for the removal of counter-reading and additional payments from all the missing subscribers we brought up during the draft talks have unfortunately been rejected by the Commission. Speaking of which, one of the most important issues I have to say at this point is the use of stolen electricity. These incredible electrocution rates are the most important problem of the existing system. Although it is said that there is healing and there is going to be, it is clear that the loss and the damage due to the use of illegal electricity is also on the back of my citizens, who have paid their taxes, debts, and costs. And those who can't find a solution to this situation, unfortunately, make it legal to put a burden on our citizen. Yes, as a whole, illegal electricity crosses 8 to 10 percent in some places. Some cities have illegal electricity use, reaching 70 per cent. Yes, they are asked to be resolved, protected by rights and rights. Debts due to loss and illegal electricity consumption must be collected, not by burdening an honest citizen who pays his taxes, but by a righteous and functioning system. Yes, about 60 percent of the natural gas we import is used in electricity production. Sadly, there are few countries in the world who are so dependent on natural gas to produce electricity. See, we get the biggest natural gas from Russia and Iran. After current developments, our relations with the two countries are obvious. Considering that our relations are not going well strategically tomorrow, are there any other plans for electricity production when these countries interfere with natural gas flow and sale? No state sees another state as an eternal friend. Sometimes there are conflicting, sometimes conflicting policies, strategies and goals. In that case, of course, we are obliged to reason on behalf of the welfare of our nation and the future of our country. We want national policies that have been developed, diversified, increased the share of domestic production. But it looks like it's going to get a lot longer, and it's going to give us a headache. At the point of resolving energy problems in Turkey, the quality and low-cost energy supply must be carried out. All possibilities and possibilities must be assessed, energy production must be diversified. Public energy investments must be maintained in a planned and stable manner. In energy, external dependency needs to be gradually and decisively reduced, resource diversity and focus on local production. A safe, righteous and environmentalized supply system must be developed. The ability to produce new energy technology, especially nuclear energy, must now be taken steps to reach it. Goals must be set to search, extract, process, operate, move and market for oil and natural gas. Turkey's strong, great, and leader of tomorrow will surely pass through energy policies. With energy planning, a vision of energy, based on resources, production and the diversity of countries, must be presented. The Council of Ministers has been granted until 2018 to make arrangements for the implementation of production facilities in accordance with environmental legislation and has been authorized to extend it for up to three years. This arrangement is a property that will subjugate our country's position on this subject to EU directives. The decisions made regarding HESEs should also be reversed. Yes, this law is an important law. As I end my words, I wish this law to be good for our country, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0148par0178	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Durdu Özbolat, Deputy Heromarash. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0149par0182	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party for the first chapter of Law 426. I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to start by stressing that the most important feature of the law we're going to discuss is the law to disable the EPDK. The whole world is suffering from serious anxiety over the rapid consumption of fossil fuels over the last two centuries. In the world in which we live, access to energy resources has become the expression of power and power, the most decisive element of foreign policy. Energy is a source of life both internally and externally. The most basic measure needed to make energy sustainable and sustainable is the development of energy technologies based on self-replicating and renewable resources. Unlike our country, the world is in a hurry to put aside the resources that are going to be exhausted and use the resources that are not exhausted, including the wind, the sun, the geothermal, and the tide from the sea. A sustainable world goes through a sustainable energy plan. That only goes through a sustainable energy policy. In terms of sustainability, the main requirement is to reduce the increase in energy consumption to minimum, while also making progress towards a better social welfare, and it is seen to be possible. Thus, in sustainability, it is not only the presentation of energy, but also how it is used. The amount of energy required for the presentation of the same goods and services needs to be reduced, so energy efficiency needs to be increased. This is a public need, as well as a priority for energy policies. It is a policy job to prioritize energy efficiency in investments, even if it is suitable for cost and energy factors, to remove energy efficiency barriers, such as the fact that everyday items, vehicles, machines, new versions of machines, burn less fuel or less electricity. In this context, plans to promote energy efficiency in buildings should be prepared and seriously monitored. Since industry is a large part of its basic energy consumption, strong incentives should be brought in this area to speed up efforts towards energy efficiency. In the transport sector, energy use of diesel and oil fuel is increasing in parallel to development. The change in law we're discussing is due to allegedly solving structural problems in the energy sector, but is far from the strategic and fundamental goals of energy policy. Once again, the opportunity to direct Turkey's energy policy and take permanent steps has escaped. Dear friends, Turkey's energy policy has been constantly and periodically free of global strategies, regardless of global strategies, depending on the general manager, the undersecretary's change in the last 15 years. Each of the executives manages to implement their own policy for three or five years, then becomes the savior. Unfortunately, Turkey has gotten used to it. Energy is now facing serious supply security, but there's nothing relevant in this bill. We don't see our priorities yet. Turkey is now in winter. If the weather hadn't gone so soft, we'd have a better understanding of the importance of the energy supply security we're talking about. In February last year, electricity prices reached $2; industry had to shut down gas valves. Why? The gas flow from the current gas lines no longer responds to the country's gas supply. Russia is putting serious pressure on Turkey on gas supplies. Nevertheless, addiction to Russia is increased in everything. Dear friends, Turkey has had a serious performance in business investments and finances on renewable energy, but investments are unfortunately being constantly diverted by the internal dissonance of bureaucracy and different views. There are now thousands of megawatt projects, licensed companies. Since licenses are realized after they're licensed, any problem must be completed after the license term. At the moment, very few licenses can be completed during the term. The EPDK knows that very well. This goes on and on and on and on. However, with the amendment, the concept of pre-license is now available for all land permits. Although this is intended for a right purpose, the law is not clear enough, such as similar plans that we discussed here before, which will be staged by the EPDK with subroutines of subroutines and indiscriminately to changes. Dear friends, right now an investor who wants to invest 20 megawatts has to endure a letter of collateral that reaches 6 per cent. In addition, with the latest Trade Law amendment, 25 per cent of capital growth must be blocked into cash. Imagine that banks give an investment loan to a company that has 15 per cent and 20 per cent equity sources, but in Turkey, the licensed investor has to show the EPDK that its resources reach 10 per cent in the first place are sufficient. Since the exact meaning of the pre-license is not defined by the law, the terminology concerns investors whether the term is sufficient for investment to be realized. The EPDK must carefully determine its term and economic competence criteria in order to separate the true investor. I think it's going to take some time for real investment projects to tell the banks about this concept of pre-existing licensing. Clearly, these arrangements will delay the realisation of projects. Dear friends, the Market Financial Reconciliation Agency of TEİAS is turning into a company called EPIAŞ. This institution will now function in the electricity market that TEİAS has done. No one can argue that the market that EPIAS will run with market logic will be subject to the manipulation of EUAS, and that the transition process will not be put to trial error. In the end, the subject that the EPDK has changed most of its regulations recently is on PMUM. Now, it's unclear when this situation will take its final turn. A new head office, a new office, is being born into the energy bureaucracy. Dear friends, Turkey has many new investments, as well as many plants whose current investments are about to expire in economic lifespans. These state-owned plants are being damaged because of the failure of modernisations, and then a policy is applied to sell to the private sector. The private sector sees the profits and plans its account in line with modernisation and capacity growth. Afshin-Elbistan is being considered new thermal plants. The vast Afshin-Elbistan A plant, 1,440 megawatts of economic life-sustaining power, rots there and is run unproductively by spreading pollution. Mr. Secretary, instead of building a new thermal plant for Afshin-Elbistan, if you renovate the current power plant and save a few cents, this plant could become productive. Two years ago, this Parliament made an adjustment to the Renewable Energy Resources Law. There will be 600 megawatts of application for solar energy. I think we have 3-5 megawatts of solar power right now. The firms will measure and apply for a license in June 2013, I think they'll get a license in 2014, start investments in 2015, start production in 2016. Can you imagine, we've been trying to invest in solar energy since 2008. The draft, the law, the regulations, the notification, the board's decision to invest in it eight years later, can become a reality. And this fever is only 600 megawatts, the size of a medium-sized gas plant. The number of unlicensed applications is increasing rapidly. In any case, until investors get 600 megawatt licenses in the sun, the current arrangement will quickly find several hundred megawatts in unlicensed applications, which are 1 megawatts. Well, that's Turkey's fate, unfortunately, especially foreign investors, who get tired of it. Why would the investor invest in this country, dear friends? What if we make them wait five or ten years to invest? It'll be handing over the country to the broker of underprivileged investors. Dear friends, it's one thing for our country to have so many resources. If we can't turn it into an opportunity, and we're not trying to guarantee the future of this country, who will? We need to assess Turkey's position and its advantages. The absurdity of living with all our neighbors... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because of the fights, we have no use for the value of our geographical position. We've got oil-rich countries with us that the whole world has been exploiting, but...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0150par0207	Thank you, Mr. Ozbolat.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0149par0208	...it won't do us any good. We have countries with us that give gas to the world, but we don't. Why? Because we're always fighting in foreign politics and fighting for the interests of others. Dear friends, as I end my words, I wish this law to be good for our country, but unfortunately, I don't think it will be. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0151par0212	Thank you. The first word on their behalf is Mr. Haluk Ayhan, Congressman of Denizli. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0152par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the first chapter of the current Electric Market Law Bill. I salute the grand jury. The first part of the bill includes the purpose, scope, definition, activities of the market, license bases, pre-license basis. Now, one thing I particularly want to express during the discussion of this law is that it has prevented members from getting enough information, from taking advantage of it while the law is being discussed. There was a real problem with the commissioner's position, and I'd like to express it in particular. Because we wanted it to go to a subcommittee. Why did we desire it? When we looked at the outside information, what did we do to make this law better structured? We said that because we thought about it. But to us, for a very ordinary reason, we've seen that this system has never worked in the establishment of subcommittee like this -- and I don't even want to use that statement -- and we've seen that it's been rejected, as they first took it, and then they didn't. However, during the same commission work, I'm very clear and clear -- there was Mehmet Bey -- in the law on electronic trade -- what have we seen that was very useful? We've seen your work. Now, therefore, it is very clear and clear that there is a study that will contain the issues that can be understood, unfortunately, the Commission has been blocked by the President. I want to make this clear and clear. It's in the transcripts, too. In fact, in the process of law-making, we really see that both the government and the AKP Group and the AKP-based administrations in the commissions have caused a great deal of trouble. Why am I saying this? In previous commissions, and in these commissions, I see very clearly that we have to go through what we say, we have to go through with it; everyone has to go through with it. There's no way to think of something like that. Why am I saying this? The reason I'm saying this is that if we can't contribute to this, if we can't tell the truth about the arrangement, if we can't share it with you, then it doesn't mean anything. At the expense of defying us, we find that the text from the Chamber of Rooms is not good or that what other organizations bring in is unacceptable. I took all the paperwork with me. And I don't want to do this at all: What do I want to do here tonight, at the Commission, to express the attitude of the talks and to be misunderstood in the negotiations here? I don't want to spoil it. But there's one thing I particularly want to say: What has the government and the Commission not done enough for this? He didn't care. Mr. Secretary has put more weight on foreign travel, Mr. Minister for advertising projects on energy savings, and the Commission has not given the necessary attention -- I really want to express this -- in the matter. So, government, no matter what the Commission says, no matter what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, no matter what the lawmakers say, just let this law pass, what did it try to do with it? He tried to pass this law. There's something I want to express here. Look, it's 49 articles with temporary materials. The number of proposals offered here will be 150, perhaps more than 100. I don't know because I just asked my friends and the authorities at the Commission, and they said they didn't know. Now, if 150 motions are coming into a 50-point bill, then the subcommittee must have mattered, or the government did inadvertently when the government made it a bill. Now, when you look like that, what do we do that the government doesn't take this kind of work seriously? We can see it easily. From now on, I'll continue to explain my thoughts in detail in my other interviews. Thank you, my respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0153par0225	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner Yildiz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0154par0229	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to say a few words about this first chapter and the talks. Of course, here we are preparing for Turkey's growth, its development, and the energy structure that can afford all of this. I'd also like to point out those who can't be answered in the QA and those who can't be answered in due to the time limit. Of course, here, in both the General Assembly and Plan and Budget, East and West are said to be credited for feeding the West. It's in the transcripts, and anyone who wants it can get it out of these reports. We say there is no east, west, north, south of Turkey. All citizens of the Republic of Turkey on 780,000 square kilometers have a separate right to each project and must benefit from each project. It's here that the real problem is to tell you that one of them is more creditable than the other, so it's unacceptable. And what we've produced in the east... is that each power plant is valuable to us, and let alone 48 percent of it, it's normally about 10 percent of its production there, or it's worth 1 percent of it to us. But in terms of correcting the numbers, we have production in that area around 16 billion kilowatts, and it's very valuable to us; it's water sources, renewable energy sources, these are HESESTs, and structures that we don't think about privatisation of Turkey. Of course, I agree that, rather than dwellings, industrial construction and water pumps in particular, deep well water pumps have a very serious impact on increasing this missing fugitive. Is it possible, friends, that a region could grow 54 percent from 2011 to 2012? That's 54 percent in the area. Our citizens there are our citizens. I certainly can't use that term, but you can. I'm just saying that in order to distinguish right from wrong, it's a subject's right, and it's also a state's right, and it's still our duty as managers to remind our citizens. Dear friends, it's constantly expressed, but unfortunately, it's not hard to learn the truth. I've answered this question twice here, and I'm going to answer it three more times: the 14.8 per cent discounts made by TETASH are not reflected to the citizens. What do you do with this money? Dear friends, it's important to create a price on a customer base, on a subscriber base, whether it's industry or business, whether it's housing subscriber, whatever the price they buy from distribution companies to go to them. The distribution company's prices are based on prices from TETASH, bought from EUAS, and bought from PMUM. Now, all these mechanisms... The public takes it out of one pocket and puts it in another pocket, but while we did so, we organized the balance of all the increases involved in natural gas to protect and protect its citizens, along with these discounts from TETACH. Now, one of the reasons for the sale of the cheapest natural gas between the countries of the European Union, the second and third place among the 27 countries, when the rise comes to natural gas, is this balancing. So, just as there's nothing we can't account for, on the contrary, these are our official agencies, which are published on the Internet. WHEN there were around 14 cents [14 p] of EUSAR, it was around 20.8 cents [20.8 p] of TETASH. The discount we made there was compared to the costs of EUAS. It was not reflected as a raise for our citizens. The person who asks this question must also ask the following question: What did you do with the positive costs in EUAS? So, with those plus costs, the discounts here have been put together, and they haven't been reflected as a raise for our citizens. It's about other things, if there's any faith in sin, if there's some faith in the plague, I'm returning all those words with sin and sin, and I'm not going to go into the details of them. And where we're the CEO of a $225 million company, those numbers are out of the question for us, praise be to God. Now, my dear friends, the missing fugitive rates are not only in our eastern provinces, but of course in all our provinces, there's a small or large amount related to the missing fugitive. Whether it seems reasonable, whether it is produced in the east or consumed in a factory 1,700 kilometers away, consider the opposite. Turkey's transmission and distribution lines are the longest two, or even the third-largest network, compared with the European Union member states. We're in a country with a 76-minute difference between east and west. So when we look at the losses in the transmission lines, the losses in the distribution lines, and the average fugitives, that's 10 percent in European Union member states. Like I said, guys, when we take out two areas, we're talking 9.4%. So once again, I'd like to point out that we're going to be able to make these numbers reasonable by the end of 2015. Dear friends, this transformation continued with nine amendments in England. Turkey is also a growing country, changing as it grows, in the opposite way. The management of all of this requires a lot more attention. You're looking at a dynamic sector, and we're seeing a growing share of the private sector, no private and public distinctions. This is a position that we prefer and at the beginning, we draw their policies and strategies. In 2002, the private sector's share of production in Turkey was in the 34 per cent, at the present 61 per cent, when we looked at it as power. We want to pull it up to 75 percent in the middle and short term. Well, the public doesn't invest in that sense, so who's making this investment? Instead of private sector investments for the public, sectors such as justice, health, education, have increased their share of the overall budget. We, more or less, believe that we are contributing to such sectors as energy sectors on behalf of our country. This is going to continue, and our work on these will go public in favor of the private sector and with reasonable profit sharing. Dear friends, Turkey's growth rate is still higher than last year's savings. This means that the money earned in Turkey, each of the budgets saved, is smaller than the growth of the next year. So, with international capital, with reasonable debt limits, that's what we can do. We do all of this, from time to time, with our State Department, with our Ministry of Economics, with our Treasury and Finance. Turkey is currently doing its largest bloc projects again in the energy sector. Think of a $22 billion project. Without a guarantee of treasure, only in market conditions, the guarantee of buying from time to time is considered by 50 per cent, along with the bids from 100 per cent from time to time. These are the values that have been achieved, especially with Turkey's political stability in the last decade, along with our EC PARTY governments. Turkey -- we haven't forgotten -- has done some projects 12 years ago -- guaranteeing a $150 million project treasure. Therefore, we must rejoice in these things on behalf of our country, without discrimination from the ruling opposition. We should be glad that we're building an energy sector that can stand on its own two feet and even run, and we should all be able to help because it's capable of doing big projects. Turkey has no shortage of supply security in the near future, but given its growth rates, each of us needs to continue these projects at full speed, regardless of regression. I'm calling off my promises to renegotiate in the future of the bill. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0155par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0156par0244	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made a statement on my speech and has said that the east is a debtor from the west, that I've made a division. I didn't make the distinction. I want to explain this.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0155par0245	He used a very careful language, and I'll give you my word, but on condition.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0156par0246	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0155par0247	No, no. Look, I'll promise, but I'll give you my condition, and if it goes wrong again, we'll definitely have a problem. Okay? Because I listened very carefully, Minister, he used a very careful language. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0156par0251	Mr. Secretary used a careful language, but he didn't use the right language, Mr. President, that's the point. I made a promise for him. Of course, the GAP produces 48 per cent of Turkey's electricity. Mr. Secretary also said the figures, and I would never make this kind of speech from the bench and Plan Budget Commission, not by the district, not by the borrower from the east, I don't know, I don't make that kind of talk. I have no idea what I'm thinking or personally opposed to. For me, the 81 provinces of Turkey, the Black Sea, the Mediterranean, the Aegean, the Thrace, the Interior Anatolian, the southeast, I want and wait for an approach that will be all equal. I said something here, Mr. Secretary. Be careful when you speak left and right, Hasip Kaplan did not say, "Don't pay, don't pay, don't pay, don't pay, don't pay." I warned and invited him, didn't explain, Mr. Secretary. One more thing I warned you, you've raised the area in the name of the thief, because it's 72 electric leaks per cent. We said, "Don't do it." In the West, in Istanbul, in Marmara, in an industry, not even as much as the fugitive of a factory. You all know that when the irrigation is agricultural, there are two cities that are focused on this illegal electricity, Urbana and Mardin. That's because this project is incomplete. It's wrong to bring it in and generalize it all the time. That's discrimination. You have to leave this segregation language. Especially these days, in these delicate processes, you have to be more equal and cuddly. I felt the need to make that warning. Thank you, Mr. President. And I'm not gonna be able to...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0256	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0257	Look, Mr. President, I'm talking about Taner Star, and I'm talking about 14.8 percent of the time, he's giving a lecture at the price of electricity retail. You didn't send it to consumers, and you gave it to distributors. And I said something about presents. If you'll excuse me, he gave false information...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0258	No, come on! Now, look, there's not a single...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0259	But, no, for example, when he was the head of Kayseri and the nearby Electric Dispersion Company, he was there to be clear to Ankara...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0260	Look, you're saying all this, you just said it, and now you've said it, and Mr. Secretary said it in one sentence...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0261	But, no, I mean, I showed here the $10 billion bill...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0262	Okay.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0263	I showed him $10 billion more for a trip to Europe, I showed him $16 billion worth of clothes, and I got more sausages and bacons, and I got their bills. I mean, some people...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0264	That's all in the report right now.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0265	But when you go to the report, I mean, you get misinformation from the podium.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0266	Don't do it. Here, okay.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0267	And, sir, who sent 2 quadrillion 600 trillion liras? So let's know about them, sir. And we say, which one of these distributors didn't pay his dues? Because they're protecting it, leaving a lot of money on them. So they don't pay the installments, they don't pay the government without privatisation, and then whatever happens next, a government is 73 percent missing and running.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0269	Mr. Young, look, it's been so long, it's your third time today...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0270	No, Mr. President, this is very important: 73 percent missing and running.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0271	That's the third time you've said it today. He's been in the report three times. If you'll excuse me, I'll take the system...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0158par0272	Look, Mr. President, what face does that government have in a 73% fugitive country?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0157par0273	I get it, but what do we do now? It's not like I can take down the government. [[Continue]] On behalf of the individuals, Mr. İzmir MP İlknur Denizli. Here you go, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0159par0282	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the first chapter of Power Market Law Bill 426. I salute the General Assembly. It's been a busy year, but we've had a lot of improvements to see the future with hope and trust. In 2010 and 2011, with world record-breaking growth rates, we moved our country to the top of its growth rate. We've spent 2012 as a controlled cooling period with a more modest growth rate, predicting the potential problems of growth before it even arises. While we are surrounded by economic fire, especially the European Union, the Republic of Turkey has become able to finance rescue plans for countries in the world that are economically difficult. We thank those who have done so, our government and our Assembly. However, our government, which has set 2023 targets, even with interim revisions, put 2071 vision into Turkey, is not only planning the present or the near future in all areas of the economy, it is predicting the distant future and implementing structural reforms. Our energy policy, which affects economic balances, has macro and micro-effects, and when necessary measures are not taken, is also being made very important decisions regarding our energy policy, which may have devastating consequences, and measures are being put into effect. We're implementing the necessary legal arrangements with the support of our Parliament. Turkey is a growing, developing, developing country. I use it to know that growth, development and development have different economic consequences because Turkey is doing all three; it's growing and improving. In doing so, providing energy and security is one of our most important tasks because energy is not just an economic product in terms of supply and cost; as a world, many wars, blood, tears, energy, the future owner of energy, and who will control them. Calculations say the world's energy demand will increase by 40 per cent in 2035 compared to today and will approach 20 billion tons of equivalent oil. The countries that don't have enough oil and gas resources like us need to be more careful in the field of energy, to establish their policies more carefully, to constantly control their strategies. In this area, governments have a great deal of responsibility because they need to manage a successful task of maintaining their energy supply and security. It's not an easy job either. In this difficult process, both our momentary reflexes and our long-term policies must be true. Turkey is a country that grows from 6.5 per cent to 7.5 per year. We are the 2nd after China in the demand increase. However, one of the most basic figures that shows that our production is increasing is that we need energy. We're expected to reach 450-500 billion kilowatts in 2023. We need 4,000 megawatts of investment every year to meet that demand. Another fact is, in its usual clarity, we are a country that imports the energy that we consume at great proportions. Cari, our most important pencil in the open is our energy import. However, with the principles of our energy policy, with the new priorities for our domestic and renewable energy portfolio, with the use of the public and private sector together and the efficiency of energy, we strive to direct our energy policy, to make the right decisions. Under these policies, today's law will meet the changing needs of the electricity market and eliminate the problems of implementation. I wish you all the best in our law.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0160par0289	Thank you, Mr. Denizli. Moving on to QA. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0161par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. What I want to learn from the Minister is that the Nabucco Project, which is the transit line for natural gasses in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, which is planned to move from Central Asia to Europe, starting with the Turkish states of Turkey, I want to know what is the final status of Project Trans Caspian. Second: there are some studies of Russian gas flow through Bulgaria into Europe, as we call it the South Stream Project. We'd like to know the latest situation with the South Stream Project. The Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline is also on the agenda. The opening of these lines is said to have caused serious problems in the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline, especially the opening of the South Stream Project. What is your opinion of the government at this point? Because the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline is a sign of independence for the Turkish states of Central Asia, especially Azerbaijan and others. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0162par0297	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0163par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, there are many valleys in the Black Sea region in particular that have been completed and many hydropower plants that have not yet been built have been established or continued. What's the number of hydroelectric power plants that still have problems and are going to open up with this bill? What's your Ministry's opinion on all this in general? Can you really accept as the Minister that many valleys in the Black Sea are preferred to these plants in terms of environmental order and in order to disrupt the environment? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0164par0301	Mr. Ugly, here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0165par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Minister, when we just asked about the farmers' monthly payment on agricultural irrigation, you stated that you went to such an application of the will and will of the irrigation troops. Whereas you answered a written question I asked the Prime Minister, where you say you went to such an application because of the profit margins of distribution companies. In what answer are you truthful or sincere now? I'm curious about that. Another is that you talked about the construction of watering troops with the will of the irrigation troops. I've mentioned farmers who have personal subscribers in agricultural irrigation, and their interest debt for the past has not been expunged, it has been re-interested.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0166par0306	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0167par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there have been a shortage of household electricity in the Şanlıurfa Yenice neighborhood for about a thousand months now, and when we ask the authorities there, it is said that 100 or 200 people here have been cut off because of the use of illegal electricity and that those who normally deposit their money are reported to be victims. The second rumor is that the transformer isn't enough, it's said to be replaced, but the locals have been suffering from these blackouts for a month or two. Do you have any work to do on this? Secondly, the summer comes again in Şanlıurfa, and there is a threefold difference between those who water from the canal and those who extract their own water. And the big reason for that difference is...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0168par0312	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0169par0313	Thank you, Mr. President, for promising me again, I was unable to complete my promise. The Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline is a symbol of the independence of the Turkish world. So lately, it's been as if there's been some sort of suggestion that this line is not running as a random and that it's shutting down. There are also some comments at the point where Kazakhstan's oil sources in the Aqeast region are being transferred from here. Therefore, this line must be kept alive. What do you think of this as the state of the Republic of Turkey? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0170par0317	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0171par0318	Mr. Secretary, in public housing areas, specifically -- specifically called sites -- it is said that the companies made by TOKİ (TİKI) or owned housing in the city's municipalities, although they are actually open on the websites of citizens, there is no security, and even though they are not surrounded, they will be accepted as sites, and street electricity will be cut off, and electricity will be given by them, provided their pay is paid. I asked you this with a question, but the answer is that municipalities use decorative or decorative lighting in these areas. It's a general sentence. But when you go to the places that I'm talking about and you look at them, there's actually no such decorative lighting, and people are in the dark, the streets are in the dark. There's no security, so there's been a break-in. Do you intend to take precautions on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0170par0320	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0172par0321	Mr. President, dear friends, natural gas sources in Central Asia are of great importance to both our region and Turkey. Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, there are projects that we've developed in almost all of our sister countries, or there are projects that we're planning. Of course, Turkmenistan's policies are intended to market any property by selling it on its own border. Azerbaijan sells it on the border of the country he sells. TO host other projects such as TANAP, Azerbaijan would have to sign them. So any further gas from Turkmenistan is allowed by Azerbaijan. Turkey has also signed that it allows it to cross a gas that can be driven by Azerbaijan or Turkmenistan. Of course, Nabucco and TANAP recently signed an agreement on the continuation of the project. It doesn't mean that this project will continue there, but it has the possibility that it will continue there. So it's an agreement that the gas in the Shahdeniz is going to come out of Caspian, from Azerbaijan to Turkey, and some of it will be used in Turkey, and some will go in which way, with Nabucco West, or with the TAB. Hopefully this will all come to an end next June. The closure of the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan crude oil pipeline. There's no such thing, on the contrary, you know, a line that has reached a capacity of about 50 million tons, and so far a serious reserve has been transferred. At the same time, this project is important and strategic in terms of relaxing the throats of Istanbul and Çanakkale. That's exactly the way our government sees it. Now South Stream is a line from the Black Sea to the Russian Federation, which is being transmitted to northern Europe. We don't have a partnership with the construction of this line. This project is run by the Russian Federation. Only Turkey has granted permission to cross the Black Sea from its separate economic zone and permissions for construction permits. Of course, these projects add to our strategic importance due to our geography. We'll continue with these projects. In the Black Sea, you asked: "There are parts of the HES (Hes) in particular that have problems with the environment. " Yes, there are some HESEs that are now related to the environment -- even if only a little -- are related to the environment. Our Department of Water and Forests is especially doing water control, and they're working on it. If there are projects that are incompatible with the planning of the basin or that have caused problems despite the environment, some of them will be able to be sorted out as part of our project with the environment. In particular, our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs continues its work. Dear friends, interest rates have been erased in the debt configuration of agricultural irrigation. You owe 100 liras and 50 lira interest. If you're going to pay $100, it's made out of 50 liras. So far, in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the debt configuration is very rare by deleting interest. In particular, again, some agricultural co-ops' debts have not been consolidated, while their interest has not been erased. In fact, they were taken with a certain, reasonable interest rate, but the interest of farmers' debt, electricity debt related to agricultural irrigation has been expunged. If you're not going to pay that $100 and you're going to do 36 months, he's moved at a reasonable rate. That's a separate issue, but if you pay 100 lira, those interest rates are deleted. It's a very clear issue. Look, in between these things, the profit margin of the distribution company in terms of the periodical issues is not the same as the periodical profit margin. Now, in a position where you pay monthly and pay monthly, if the public that sells electricity to that distribution company didn't do the same synchronic work on this periodical, and if they didn't act at the same time, our policies on this matter are unfortunately not true because the demands that come in are different, so this is not true. Three separate demands come to us: they say: "Take it once a year. " Some of our farmers say: "No, take it for a month, so it doesn't add up." Some say: "When I make my harvest, let me give it to you." Three of these have been tested in these electricity-related sales. I mean, there's never been a subject that we can say is 100% right. So if distribution companies don't get this electricity from EUAS or from the public at the same time, they're affecting profit margins. That's what I'm talking about, or it's not because of profit margins. Dear friends, I told my friends about this Yenice neighborhood until I could answer other questions. What is it? How can a thousand houses be without electricity? Without a residence permit, the dwellings in the region cannot be subscribed to electricity. Now, fellas, we've made a law here. It's about the lack of licensed wells, the lack of electricity from wells that are not licensed by the State Waterworks, and the lack of electricity from non-profits or housing permits. It's about the failure of electrical and natural gases of illegal structures to be punished by the engineers or those responsible who operate this process there in case they're connected, if they're connected. This came out of the General Assembly. So, we didn't do any cutting... due to non- subscriber consumption in the area. There is no problem with their electricity being plugged in if the municipality is granted a residence permit -- whenever it is, next week. We can't afford to have cables, guys. There is a transmission and distribution line within a million kilometers of Turkey, and we have no problem with them. Now, there's a difference, of course, in terms of cost, between the charming irrigations there and the electric irrigations. When we said that, our farmers in the region said: "I buy this field at 5 times the price. I mean, I give the price of electricity cheaply, but look, it's 100 units in one and 20 units in the other." I mean, we don't want to be on the side of this. If our farmer sees the price of electricity we're selling, if he's watering it, if he's charming, if he can water it, if he can't water it, if he's using electricity, I can't take his money using any old man. Over there, look, 54 percent growth in the region. I'm telling you again -- if our friend is here, let him hear it again -- I'm not talking about an exclusive area. Look at the transcripts, they're in my statement. Wherever there are fugitives in Izmir, Istanbul, Kars, and Rize, we must remove them. So there's nothing different about it. The last time you asked about the TOKI buildings, Mr. Haydar, I believe you asked, we saw that some of the buildings here didn't fit the definition of street lighting. But I have to tell you, especially in accordance with street lighting, that the Department of Energy and Natural Resources is going to be illuminated, especially with what we're going to extract here. So whether it's mass or separate, if a street passes by, we're told it's street crossing, I have to tell you that it's going to be subject to general lighting. With the law we're gonna get out of here, this is gonna get a lot easier. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0173par0331	Thank you, and your time is up. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Now, there are three motions on item one, I'll have it read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request the addition of the provision of the article 1 of the Electric Market Law Bill to be added to the use of the consumers prior to the declaration. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Adnanşik Ugly Oktay Vural Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the first draft of the current draft of 426 rows. The following declaration of "in accordance with the special legal provisions" in the Article has been changed to "able to show." Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Durdu Özbolat Candan Öğüer Mehmet Ali Sesam I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 426 rows of Electric Market Bill 1. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0174par0359	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0173par0360	Now that there's no one here, I'm going to give you the reason: It's the 1st of the law. There are deep discrepancies between the expression of the use of consumers in line with the purpose, quality, low cost and environment, and the proposed changes in other articles of the law. Therefore, the bill is far from meeting the purposes mentioned. The creation of a new board is designed to create new jobs. But as these areas of work are being created, there is no measure that aims to preserve history and natural structure. Incompatible with the environment in the description, the expression does not guarantee the protection of the environment. The first thing that needs to be done in order to create a new board for electricity to be offered to the public at a lower cost is not to impose private law on citizens, but to do studies in order to remove injustice in income distribution and to offer the cheapest electricity to the public. This clause must be removed from the draft text because it will increase existing problems.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0175par0363	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0173par0364	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the first draft of the current draft of 426 rows. The following declaration of "in accordance with the special legal provisions" in the Article has been changed to "able to show." Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0176par0372	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0177par0373	Mr. Osman Aydın...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0173par0374	Mr. Osman Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0178par0376	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from my group on the first amendment of the bill. I salute you all. The motion on the first article of this bill contains a technical correction. We have proposed such a technical correction because we feel it is necessary for public companies operating in this area to be covered, to change the word "action" in accordance with the rules of special law. Now, the purpose of this law, of course, is a fundamental law that sets Turkey's policies on electricity prospections, electricity production. The purpose of this law is to guide the sector's production goals, draw production goals, to ensure that production will be achieved in line with the goals set by the High Planning Board. The licenses given by this law must be clear and clear about the goals that lead to this framework, which include electricity production in this framework. What are the goals set by the High Planning Board? The High Planning Board's goals for electricity production: the implementation of 70 per cent of electricity from local sources, 30 per cent from imported sources, the production of imported resources, are clearly and clearly the target of the High Planning Board. But, unfortunately, under this law, there is no line of directness or direction to these goals. How do we see it? Nearly 60 percent of the total energy production of 240 billion kilowatts in 2012 is clearly seen from imported sources, and the rest from natural resources. So we have to draw the energy produced from 60 percent of import resources to 30 percent. But if we look at the investments that are being built under the licenses provided by the EPDK, which will continue and continue, they are intended to produce 17.250 megawatts of natural gas, 5,350 megawatts of imported coal, and the remaining 20,000 megawatt hydraulics and wind, from local coals 3,800 megawatts and a small amount of other resources. When analysis of the ongoing resources is done, it is clear and clear that nearly 70 per cent of this production is aimed at production based on imported sources, close to 65 per cent of it. So the government's decisions, within the framework of policies it is implementing, are not likely to reach 70 per cent of local resources targeted by the High Planning Board, and 30 per cent from imported sources. It is not possible to increase the proportion of local resources in the process, given that 33,000 megawatts of natural gas and 16,000 megawatts of imported coal plants are in the process of study and application. The government's latest goal of a 15,000-megawatt nuclear power plant is clear and clear that electricity production will be directed towards more than 70 per cent imported resources, not 30 per cent imported.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0179par0381	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0178par0382	That's why he thinks the law that doesn't comply with the High Planning Board's goals and doesn't allow it to reach those goals is not in accordance with our country's requirements, so I say we act against it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0180par0387	I want roll call.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0181par0388	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Cıray, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Pine, Mr. Young, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Demir, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Develi, Mr. Erdoğdu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We'd like to add a "producing" statement to come before the "use of consumers" in Article 1 of the Electric Market Law Bill. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0182par0406	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0181par0407	Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0183par0410	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 1 of the Electric Market Act. I salute the grand jury. We wished to add a declaration of introduction to the use of the suppliers in Article 1 of the Electric Market Act, and we submitted it to the approval of the General Assembly. Now, the reason is that we've submitted this motion because we intend to make the production of electricity energy to be marketed in the electric market as well. We'd also like to extend our motion to your appreciation for your support, lawmakers. I just expressed it here in my speech. Finally, it came to me from the Commission; there is a 49-point bill, and the 49-point bill has been submitted to 146 motions, 92 rejections, 54 acceptances. What did the AKP MPs, members of the Commission, do if you consider the 49-point bill to be a temporary 33? They've recommended that the AKP (AKP) motion be granted over 35 articles -- when you release the temporary provisions of the 33-point bill -- has been adopted. Now, why would lawmakers of the AKP Group change their 35 clauses in the Commission if that were good? Then the government didn't work well. He brought in a bill he didn't do well. You can also say that the AKP Group worked here to perfect this unfavorable bill, and tried to make it possible for them to accept 41 proposals in 33 percent of the 49-point bill, which was valid. It's also possible to say this, but in the lobby, the private sector is in contact with both members of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) Commission and the President, and he's told them in a very nice way, and he may have made it clear to them, but when you look at the law-making process, it's not a proper job, no matter where you look at it. We've looked at it before, like, what happened with the bill for the Accreditation Agency? In the government's bill, they put Tuskon. We've got TOBBB here, et cetera, why do you stain TUSKON, put it here? When we say that your AKP members of the AKP are a little more pressure on our member friends on the Commission, but if this comes out, our friends will press me later. They've started talking about it, and that's what's going on. That's what I feel sorry for. The country really needs energy for economic development, needs investment for energy. You say that the liberalisation of the market is all true, so sit down and think about it. Where are you going with the energy issue? You're going to Erbil. You cannot go down to Erbil. You go down to Kayseri. If this is about energy, and since you're gone, it has to be, you need to make it clear to the public. You're not transparent, you're not open, I'm having trouble understanding why you can't do that. Now, wherever you look at it, there's a problem with your meeting with the parties, because we've discussed it in the ministry, we've discussed it with the parties, we've discussed it with the parties, we've brought a bill that we've perfected as a result to you, we've brought it to the presence of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You say, "But you accept the motion given by 41 AKP-led paralegals." On the other hand, when you say 92 plus 54, you get 146 motions. You may consider this an extraordinary positive for perfection, but when you consider whether your work is good or not, it seems very clear that you're taking an extremely bad test. Besides, the Commission didn't take it seriously. If I hadn't wanted these things, probably no one would have known about them -- it's already not in the mission report. I thank you for your appreciation. I offer your support for the acceptance of our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0184par0421	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept it are accepted. There are three motions in Article 2. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the rights of the consumers be added after the declaration of importation and export in Article 2 of the current Electric Market Law Bill. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the second draft of the current draft of 426 rows. It has been changed to public and private legal persons' terms, after all the facts related to the abuses found in the article. Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Durdu Özbolat Candan Öğüer Mehmet Ali Sesam I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of Electric Market Law Bill 426 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0185par0449	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0184par0450	Now that there's no one here, I'm going to give you the reason: The activities envisioned by this substance can be done by the current institutions. Thus, because of the creation of a new board and the lack of the need for the task descriptions of this board, 2. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the second draft of the current draft of 426 rows. It has been changed into the public and private legal terms of all persons who have come after the declaration of the truth related to the abuses found in the article. Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0186par0461	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0184par0462	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0187par0464	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I want to keep talking where I'm staying. Yes, I've just said that this law is not suited to the goals of the High Planning Board, the goals that our government has set in line with the requirements of the economy. In 2012, 56 per cent of the 240 billion kilowatt-hour production was covered by imported sources. Today's planned 470.000 megawatts, given licensed and under construction, will produce 65 per cent of import resources, which will be estimated to occur around 90 billion kilowatts of production, and such production will occur above 2023 targets -- 240 billion billion 2012 -- as well as 15 megawatts of nuclear power plants, which are still invested in 290 billion investments -- as a result of the production of 530 billion kilowatts per cent, and as a result of about 80 per cent of the imports and study process, the total production of 33,000 megawatts of natural gas and 16,000 megawatts of imported coal plants, and the government's claims, as well as 15megawatts of nuclear power plants, is reported to be released at the same time. Since it is clear that only over 60 billion parts of the foreign trade deficit stem from energy imports in 2012, it is clearly seen in the coming years that this deficit will deepen and increase. What's the solution to this, is that our country has the ability to nationalize its energy resources on this issue, to produce 70 per cent of local resources, 30 per cent of it from imported resources, to have the resources, to have the potential to do that, if we look at it, to have the power of the wind at 50,000 megawatts, that the power of our linite reserves could be activated by the introduction of 100 billion kilowatt-year-old productions, that our hydroelectric capacity could be activated, and that our energy could be generated in a very large way, and that the power of our solar power could be generated by the way that our solar power could be generated, and it's very significant. While the countries of Europe, which have our semi-potential, are taking on thousands of megawatt solar projects, it is clear to us how cumbersome and incompetent we are about the fact that we can't even work on a 600-megawatt solar energy, that we can't really activate solar energy, that we are in the context of the opinion of experts that our solar energy production potential has a potential of around 400 billion kilowatts per year. Other than that, the pipe is clearly seen today as one of the most important alternative sources of energy today, and it is evident that most developed countries in particular have done their RD work to use the pipe in energy, and today it has been used as missile energy, it has been used as an actual use, it has been used, it really has shown how much chance and opportunity our country has in terms of the boron, but unfortunately no investment has shown that our country has done any important RD work to use this opportunity. And from that point of view, this law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that we will vote against him. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0188par0473	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0189par0474	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0188par0475	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the rights of the consumers be added after the declaration of importation and export in Article 2 of the current Electric Market Law Bill. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0190par0484	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0188par0485	Mr. Reşat Right, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0191par0487	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 2 of the Law Bill 426. I salute the High Council. Electrical energy production is one of the main problems of our country. Given that electricity consumption has increased twice in the last decade, the importance of production resources and production methods will be better understood. In our country today, natural gas has the largest share in the production of electricity energy. In our country, however, electricity is produced using the sun, wind, stream, but it is very thoughtful and late that it cannot be transferred to nuclear energy. Today, energy use is being done all over the world to increase its resources because renewable energy sources do not pose any risk to natural life, unlike fossil fuels. It's also very affordable. As well as the cost of oil, its arrival in the end has revealed new alternatives. In order for our country to meet demands from consumption centres over the next 20 years, the current electricity energy production capacity must be increased by 100 per cent, but while these are being done, the goal should not only be to produce electricity, but also to keep human health and environment above everything. But what's interesting is that today, whether it's solar power, hydroelectric plants are being built on small streams, wind energy, and environmental issues have not come up much. And that's why I want to bring up some problems with wind energy. Clean energy sources referred to as 100 percent nature-friendly are not very ecological, as described. Wind power plants are being built outside of established areas. These power plants, built in clean nature, affect and force all living things around it. The ecological balance in the migratory area is unfortunately rapidly deteriorating. Especially wind energy roses are a great danger to birds. It causes thousands of birds to die every day. All living creatures, especially birds, are now faced with such a problem along with pesticides and chemical fertilizers used in agriculture. So the natural balance continues to deteriorate more and more every day. It has also been explained by scientists that air currents cause climate change due to natural circulation failure. A wind plant produces 3,000 times less energy than a one-unit nuclear power plant, but wind plants need many towers. Many concrete buildings are being built, which makes video pollution. Sadly, in the province of Tokat, there have been many difficulties with wind roses established in the Artova region. See, the sound work of turbines is causing a lot of serious disturbances in people who live nearby. That is why it must be built far away from the settlements, but seriously away, away from the sensitive wildlife centers. Radio and television antennas have interference. There are serious problems with radio stations and TV antennas in areas about two or three miles [3 km] from these facilities established. They must be considered, too. Look, recently, because of the environmental problems created by large wind turbines in Britain and many European countries, some very serious measures have been taken, and unfortunately, they have been banned from being established very close and within the borders of national parking spaces. After all, the environment is at the top of everything. When the environment is not valued, it is revealed that human health is not valued. In that sense, of course, we're not against wind energy or solar energy, but at some point, we think it would be more appropriate to have environmental factors and human well-being involved in the consideration of the environment. But when we've seen it so far, it's as if at some point they're being ignored, but it just seems like the goal is to get electricity. We're waiting for them to be considered. Projects that are environmentally sensitive, preeminent of human health are valuable, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0192par0496	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in the third article, which I shall have read and process in order. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Article 3 of the current Electric Market Bill (1). We propose and propose that the joke be taken out of the text of the joke (1) and added the bell below (ss) to come after the text (ss). "Systika owner control company: This is the law of legal persons with distribution or production licenses, dated 10/5/2005 and certified by the Council according to regulations of Law and related legislation; sector representative and institutional identity-winning NGO status for non-profit federation or confederation of non-profit enterprises, provided by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the procedures and fundamentals." Scholar Light Oktay Vural Emin Haluk Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd draft of the current 426 rows. Article 1. After the statement found in the bank, other than the roads (i.e. the city, the town, the village, the government's property, the public's park, after the description of the yard, the road of the construction, the ibara; i) which was authorized by Kurul (i.e. the order of the decree), was added by the same control structures of the distribution companies, the "a production company" (e.g., after the declaration of the contract), and I (i.e., after the contracting of the contract, and I.e.g., which had been established by the partners (e.g., i.g., i.g., i.g., i.g., i.e., i., i.e., i., i., i., i.g., i., i.g., i., i., i., i.i., i.g., i., i., i., i., i., i.i., i., i., i.i.e., i.i.g., i.i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i. i., i., i. i., i. i. i. i. i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i., i., i., i. i. i. i. i.i. i.i.i. i. i. i.e.e.e.i., i.i.i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i., i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i., i., i. i. i. i. i. i. i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i. i., i., i., i. i. i. i. The autoroductor: essentially the corporate person who is producing electricity to meet its need for electricity, The autorodurator group: essentially the corporate person who is involved in producing electricity energy to satisfy the needs of their partners, Last resource supply: Electric energy supply for consumers who are not able to achieve electricity under a bilateral agreement, even though free consumer quality is available. Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Durdu Özbolat Mehmet Ali Sesam Candan Yüçüker Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 426 rows of Electric Market Bill 3. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0193par0527	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0192par0528	Read the reason. There are no definitions of the regulations in this article, such as the distribution, "compulsion and reconciliation," customer services, "also available services," "subject" regulations). The bill did not leave any regulation on the secondary legislation imposed by the EPDK, which defines borders, defines authority, thus establishing stability and legal trust in the legislation. The regulation in Law 4628, which has already given the EPDK the authority to impose secondary legislation in an extremely flexible and controversial way, would further further increase this situation, leading to arbitrary practices. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd draft of the current 426 rows. Article 1. After the statement found in the bank, other than the roads (i.e. the city, the town, the village, the government's property, the public's park, after the description of the yard, the road of the construction, the ibara; i) which was authorized by Kurul (i.e. the order of the decree), was added by the same control structures of the distribution companies, the "a production company" (e.g., after the declaration of the contract), and I (i.e., after the contracting of the contract, and I.e.g., which had been established by the partners (e.g., i.g., i.g., i.g., i.g., i.e., i., i.e., i., i., i., i.g., i., i.g., i., i., i., i.i., i.g., i., i., i., i., i., i.i., i., i., i.i.e., i.i.g., i.i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i. i., i., i. i., i. i. i. i. i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i., i., i., i. i. i. i. i.i. i.i.i. i. i. i.e.e.e.i., i.i.i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i.i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i., i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i., i., i. i. i. i. i. i. i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i., i. i., i., i., i. i. i. i. The autoroductor: essentially the corporate person who is producing electricity to meet its need for electricity, "r) Autoroductor group: essentially the corporate person who is involved with the production of electrical energy to meet the needs of electricity for his partners," Last resource supply: Electric energy supply for consumers who are not able to achieve electricity under a bilateral agreement, even though free consumer quality is available. Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMITORS (Gaziantep) - We're not dealing with it, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0194par0542	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0192par0543	Is Mr. Aydın going to speak?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0195par0544	Mr. Kemal is from Milldere.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0192par0545	Mr. Millerdere, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0196par0547	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the name of the Republican People's Party on the Energy Market Law bill. I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, the first thing I want to share about this bill that we discussed at the Industrial Energy Commission for a month is the use of electricity, quality, continuous, low-cost and environmentally compatible with the use of consumers in the purpose of this bill. Access to energy is as vital and fundamental as access to water and air for every citizen. Of course, environmental sensitivity should not be ignored in access to energy. We all know that. In this framework, our goal should be to ensure that even our poorest citizen has access to energy and the rights of future generations with a sensitivity to the environment. I'm afraid it's a mystery to meet these issues that I've just mentioned with this bill. Dear lawmakers, there are actually three fundamental elements in the energy market: 1) The consumers, the industrialist, are the people who use electricity in the housing trades, the consumers. 2) Manufacturers; institutions that produce electricity, organizations. 3) Distribution companies. The current Electric Market Law Bill, which we've been talking about, mainly, includes materials to increase the profits of distribution companies, rather than to satisfy the needs of consumers and the industry that will provide the real wealth of the country. In this law, unfortunately, it is not intended to reduce the burden of the citizen on the industrialist again. With this law, production is also blocked by autoroductors and co-generation systems, which are the infrastructure of efficient electricity production. On the other hand, this law does not discuss the basic problem of Turkey's cheap electricity production. Because according to Law Code 4628, the capacity that licensed production investors have committed to is 70,000 megawatts, but at the end of 2011, the production facility's power was around 16,700 megawatts. On the other hand, in 2020, we've been making such a fuss about how our power will reach 20,000 megawatts, and what we've come up with today is 2,260 megawatts in ten years, which is 2,260 megawatts in ten years. We have eight years to go, how are we going to make 18,000 megawatts in eight years? So from this point of view, it's considered the needs of the distribution companies -- mainly, as I'll be saying in a moment -- before the production side is really moved up. Therefore, it is our historical responsibility to address these shortcomings with the motions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0197par0558	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0198par0559	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0197par0560	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 3 of the current Electric Market Bill (1). We propose and propose that the joke be taken out of the text of the joke (1) and added the bell below (ss) to come after the text (ss). "Systika owner control company: This is the law of legal persons with distribution or production licenses, dated 10/5/2005 and certified by the Council according to regulations of Law and related legislation; sector representative and institutional identity-winning NGO status for non-profit federation or confederation of non-profit enterprises, provided by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the procedures and fundamentals." Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0199par0570	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0197par0571	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0200par0573	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you as you begin my words. Minister, after this electricity market has been privatized, there have been considerable difficulties. In particular, the dissolution of competition has caused problems for commercial businesses, rightly considering their own commercial interests. For example, our farmers had previously paid their electricity debts after the harvest, but after privatisation, their bills began to be sent monthly; you recently made a statement on a television channel saying that the farmers' annual electricity bills have changed three times, but now they will be billed monthly and collect according to this. Today, many farmers can't water their fields, their gardens, so they can't produce watering co-ops. About 40 per cent of watering co-ops across the country can't run their wells because of their debt. After the electricity distribution tenders, the danger that awaits the irrigation co-op has grown. If these troops close down, the farmland will be dehydrated. The state used to tolerate electricity debt, but the privatisation of many power distribution companies and their different assessments of the issue in order to avoid tolerance and profit in this matter have resulted in the end of our agriculture, which means that the farmer, who is already in debt to the throat, has lost power. As a matter of fact, today we're in the habit of importing hay. If this continues, if there is no watering, we will be able to import almost anything. This matter needs to be resolved. Given the farmer's annual income, it is important that the bills for agricultural irrigation use are indexed to harvest periods twice a year, as used to be. On the other hand, the delivery system should be able to remove the cost of use from the farmers. Today, Turkey has a total of 418 irrigation units. About 4,000 people work in these units. The Union's total debt reached 800 million liras. 410,000 hectares of agricultural land in Turkey are watered by irrigation units. Because of electricity debts, the farmland of 2 million farmers is now at stake. In Kayseri, many of the wells in Bünyan, Develi, Pınarbaş, Yeşilhisar, and John are closed due to high electricity debts. On the other hand, I'd like to evaluate the cities in Turkey for air pollution, which is the head of Kayseri. In particular, Kayseri is among the cities with the highest levels of carbon dioxide and particle matter. For example, Kayseri is ranked in the 5th place as sulfur dioxide, and she is ranked in the 2nd place as particulate matter. Minister, at a time when you are going to Kayseri, get down from Mount Ercies, in the evening hours - if need be, a pilgrim; you already know what kind of smoke the Kaiseri really is, what kind of yellow smoke is, and how dirty it is, but we need to find a solution. And there are some very important issues to be done to find a solution. Now, as we all know, electricity production in Kayseri is 1 billion 95,908 kilowatts as of 2006 at the natural gas cogeneration plant. The amount of natural gas consumed in response to the amount of electricity produced is 252 million, 961,575 cubic centimeters. Now, of course, the issue of wind turbines has come up, and you've had the research done. For example, there are important potentials for this in the Pinarbas, Gurün, and John. These things need to be put into action as soon as possible. As a matter of fact, if the wind turbines are made, their release of sulfur or other harmful substances will be much lower. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit04spe0201par0583	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0201par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 426. The commission is here. The government is here. There are three motions on the fourth article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the fourth draft of the current 426 rows. Article 3. The joke included the Turkish Trade Law 6102 and the declaration of the Turkish Trade Law, dated 13,01,2011, after the declaration of legal laws subject to special law. Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Durdu Özbolat Candan Öğüer Mehmet Ali Sesam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the fourth edition of the current Electric Market Law Bill. Article 1 of the article. We provide and propose the addition of the bell below to come after (g) bend. Oktay Vural scholar Emin Haluk Ayhan I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 426 rows of Power Market Bill 4. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0202par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0201par0032	Read the reason. 4. The matter and the retail service have been removed. A new area has been defined by the name of the bill and the operation of the piyasa. According to law 4628, sales and sales in retail have been defined by the bill. With secondary regulations, the supplier's licenses are not known if they can be separated according to market activities. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0203par0036	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0201par0037	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... I'll vote electronically. I'll give you two minutes. I'm starting. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the fourth edition of the current Electric Market Law Bill. Article 1 of the article. We provide and propose the addition of the bell below to come after (g) bend. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0204par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0201par0053	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0205par0055	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 4th Article of Law Bill 426. I salute your high council. Now, in electrical market activities, the market is considered to have activities that can be conducted on condition of getting a license under these laws, but one of the most important activities during the execution of these activities is considered to be control activity. However, we have made this motion that certain measures be taken to oversee this market. We await your support of our motion. Now, in our region, of course, there are serious problems, especially with small HESEs. The AKP's government is very interested in small HESECs. He is willing to go over the issue and carry out small HESESTs, even disregarding judgment decisions. In that sense, the HES project on the Villager-Beyobasin Circlely has been halted by a verdict. Now, after this law, will it open up? How much will a small HES contribute to Turkey's need for electricity? But beyond that, after the plant that's going to be built here, these are the beauties, what is the natural tissue here? Again, it is truly worthwhile to wonder what the small HESEs on Eyzen Tea will bring to our region and to our country. According to the research we've done, the stone we're throwing is not worth the frog we're scaring. We're going to destroy historical and natural tissue around here, but maybe someone will make three or five cents, and beyond that, when we look at the situation in terms of Turkey's energy needs, it will have no serious contribution to our country. Again, electricity bills used in agricultural irrigation are also important in my constituency, as in our entire country. The citizen, of course, does not use energy in irrigation willingly, arbitraryly. After the completion of no dams in our region, the State Waterworks has never built a watering channel for three feet. At the Akközu Dam or China Dam, dams have started producing electricity, but there is no watering channel for agricultural irrigation here, where citizens are not given water. The citizen is forced to use electrical energy to satisfy the need for agricultural water here, but there is no ease in that sense for the citizen. Again, electricity, especially used in greenhouses, is charged through commercial tariffs, and is not provided for the citizens here with agricultural irrigation ease. But products produced in greenhouses are not industrial products, but agricultural products. That's how you record it in statistics. Again, there are serious sources of wind energy, solar energy, geothermal energy sources in our region. Unfortunately, the government has not taken sufficient measures for many of these resources to quickly step in, and has not implemented the necessary incentives for further use of wind energy, solar energy and geothermal resources, which have no side effects on recycling. Of course, energy sources are limited in our country as they are in the whole world. The import of energy raw materials is an important place in our import. In that case, the efficient use of current energy is also very important. For this reason, it is especially important that household appliances, tools, incentives, and tax and VAT loads are reduced in our country in order to save more money for the electric equipment that people use. I hope this bill is good for our country. I await your support for our motion, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0206par0066	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the fourth draft of the current 426 rows. Article 3. The Turkish Trade Law No. 6102 and the declaration of the Turkish Trade Law were added after the declaration of the special legal provisions of those in the joke. Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0207par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0206par0076	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0208par0077	Kemal Milldereli...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0206par0078	Mr. Millerdere, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0209par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my speech earlier, I said that this bill does not appeal to consumers, it does not consider their needs. In our country and in other countries, when these privatisations were being done, there was a lot of talk that electricity prices would be cheaper after this process. Now, you see, from 2007 to 2012, many companies were privatized, many distribution companies were privatised, but in 2007, the kilowatts of electricity, which was 15.7 cents -- for consumers, especially for housing -- came to 32.5 cents today in 2012. So when we say we're going to make it cheaper, we see that it's going to increase by 100 percent over that time. So even though the sale of electricity prices was a target in Power Market Law 4628, the price of electricity has not been reduced. You can also appreciate the height of electricity prices, especially reducing the competitive power of Turkish industry and lowering our society's standard of living. Last week, two weeks ago, as friends of the Energy Commission -- they mentioned Mr. Mustafa -- we attended a study in the European Parliament, we participated in a workshop; there were also discussions about these issues, where the subject and complaint was that there was no cheapening in any country, even though privatisations and electricity prices were said to be cheaper. I'd like to share an important piece of information with the members of our esteemed House. I'd like to share the testimony of one of the valuable speakers here at the workshop, a professor from London City University. Professor Alan Riley says that in order to ensure the flow of investments in energy infrastructure and energy resources in the region, the rule of law in these countries is important, the quality of justice is important, the independence of the judiciary is important, it is important to have a market free of corruption and it is important to have a transparent market. Dear friends, at the beginning of the issues considered very important here and the energy efficiency strategy that we need to take lessons in, we have found that in EU countries, the building of public institutions and institutions has been weighted by RD studies aimed at minimising the energy consumption of their vehicles. We've seen Germany do RD work from nuclear power plants to thermal power plants, but to clean coal technologies and burn technologies. Again, we've seen them do RD studies for renewable resources. So the fact that we have a two percent share in the TRT, and we can't take advantage of it at all, that the share that will be divided into the E.R.G.E. sector in the energy sector will give us a measure of our external dependency. My respects to the Honorable Council.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0210par0086	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 5 there are four motions. I'll have it read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the "competitive conditions of competition" to come after the declaration of "offences" in Article 5 of the Electric Market Act. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th draft of the current 426 rows. Article 1. After the first sentence of his joke, "The release of production licenses is aimed at meeting one-third of the total energy consumed from imported energy sources, one-third from renewable sources and one-third from other local sources, from the time the law took effect." expression added, 3. "The proceedings in his joke are subject to the board's permission. The procedure and the basis for the approval of the board are regulated by the regulations issued by the Institution." "It is imperative that he report the proceedings to the board." has been changed in the form. Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Candan Yüçüer Mehmet Ali Sesam Kemal Millendereli Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 5 of Electric Market Act 426, we propose that the phrase "multiple reasons" in the second sentence of Article 5 of the Common Electric Market Act be replaced as "extended states" and added the following sentence to the end of the joke. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman of Nurettin Canikli Look at your love Ahmet New Akif Çağatay Kılıç Oya Eronat The procedure and the basis for the extension of the contract, the amount, the quality, and the registration of the contract, and the extension of the period are regulated by regulations." I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Electrical Market Bill Number 426. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0211par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0210par0122	I'm reading the reason: Unlike this clause and the current arrangement, the obligation to keep separate accounts and records for several other facilities established under separate licenses has been limited to those who are engaged only in legal activities that are subject to the timetable. The arrangement, which exempts production companies from the obligation to keep separate accounts and registrations, states: "Personal persons operating under the arrangement are obliged to keep separate accounts and records for each area that is restricted under the license of each operation, which is subject to regulation." However, all corporate persons operating in the sector must be obliged to keep separate accounts and records for each activity they get a license for. The cost is objective and transparent, and therefore the low cost can reflect on the consumer. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second sentence of Article 5 of Electric Market Law Bill 426, we propose that the phrase "multiple circumstances" in the second sentence of the second sentence of the 5th article be replaced as "extreme circumstances" and added the following sentence to the end of the joke. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The procedure and the basis for the extension of the contract, the amount, the quality, and the registration of the contract, and the extension of the period are regulated by regulations." Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0212par0134	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0210par0135	What am I supposed to do, make him read the motive?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0213par0136	Mr. President, I'd like to bring up a matter of motion here, sir. Now, with a last-minute motion, there's been a major change in the matter. The concept of immaculate causes in the matter is removed from the text, and instead it's put in the form of an extension. We don't think that's true. What's right is to preserve the declaration of a motive in the bill. A motive is a legal definition. Only when you say "extreme circumstances," the length extension is not a reason, it does not cover a fundamental and compelling reason. I mean, he's excluded from what happened against one's will and prevented him from doing it himself. That's not true. Another added sentence must be carried out by the law. The procedure and the basis for the extension of the contract, the amount, the quality, the application, and the extension of the period are regulated by regulations, says the motion. These things need to be regulated by the law. Otherwise, an arrangement that could mean the transfer of law enforcement authority to the executive body would be approved, which would constitute a violation of the Constitution. That's not true, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0214par0139	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0215par0140	Yes, Mr. President, it's really important. A reason that is extremely enjoyable, such as the state of the continuation, is the reasons set by the law. So this is a completely arbitrary, goal-oriented arrangement, very subjective, an arrangement that is far from objective. To surrender the will of the nation into the hands of bureaucratic oligarchy.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0213par0141	Mr. President, it's against the 7th Amendment of the Constitution, sir, so you can't vote on it. The 7th Amendment (Episode 7) is the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This authority cannot be transferred. It says. The sentence added to the clause is a transfer of the authority of law to the executive body, which cannot be regulated by regulations, sir, it must be regulated by law.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit05spe0214par0142	May I ask the members of the group to stand behind the bench? I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 426. The commission is here. The government is here. On Article 5 of Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli and his friends have made me reread the motion...
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0216par0006	Sir, is this Mr. Nurettin Canikli's motion that I had just discussed?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0007	Yes, the controversial motion.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0216par0008	Mr. Nurettin Canikli has no signature, so we are discussing the motion of Mahir Ünal Bey.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0217par0009	I'm throwing it out now.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0010	There are other signatures. That's how we read it. It's about to be read anyway. Read all the signatures.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0218par0012	I mean because Nurettin Bey didn't have a signature.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0013	It's all there, it's all there. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 5 of Article 5 of Electric Market Law Bill 426, the statement "amount determined by management" is to be replaced as "not to exceed ten percent of the amount of investment" in the first sentence; In his second sentence, we propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the end of the phrase, "the right reasons that are not caused by the licensed person" and the end of the joke. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bünyamin Uzbek Mihrimah Belma Line Tülay Kaynarca Nurettin Canikli The procedure and the basis for receiving, quality, and deadline extensions are regulated by regulations." Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We leave it to appreciation. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0219par0026	We agree.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0027	You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0220par0028	Get him to read the reason.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0029	Yes, I'm reading the reason: Due to the limited legality of the circumstances, it is intended to extend the duration if there is no apparent reason, but there is no legitimate reason for the investor's flaws, and to regulate the detailed issues concerning the duration extension with guarantees. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 5th draft of the current 426 rows. Article 1. After the first sentence of his joke, "The release of production licenses is aimed at meeting one-third of the total energy consumed from imported energy sources, one-third from renewable sources and one-third from other local sources, from the time the law took effect." expression added, 3. "The proceedings in his joke are subject to the board's permission. The procedure and the basis for the approval of the board are regulated by the regulations issued by the Institution." "It is imperative that he report the proceedings to the board." has been changed in the form. Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0221par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0041	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0222par0042	Mr. Durdu Özbolat.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0214par0043	Mr. Ozbolat, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0223par0045	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Article 5 of Power Market Act 426. On this occasion, I salute the High Council with love and respect. Dear lawmakers, the 5th article of the law has been tried to be explained in exactly two pages and dozens of articles. We are the only ones who can make such a complex process, such as giving and canceling. I don't understand why a law can't be written in a format that our citizens can understand when they're preparing it. Actually, I do. If it wasn't so complicated, how could bureaucracy have ruled? People in the public know how ambivalent the comment is. Since you've come to power, the world has been watching you bring the same law here so many times. It's a shame. I don't know why you bring the same law here so many times. You can't solve Turkey's energy problem because of the change in the concept of Lisans. A master's license won't save you. We need an immediate planning plan for the license to be available as an iithal, renewable and other sources. The law considers market power over transmission and distribution restrictions in order to improve competition in the introduction and taste of the production license. There are no rules such as the resource diversity, native, new, and renewable diversity, among the issues to be given a production license and its taste. This is one of the biggest challenges in the system since then. Dear friends, the bill makes it difficult to save by some arrangement that eliminates autoroductor licenses and co-generation facilities. In fact, he's taking preventive measures, not only that. The law, which avoids domestic, cheap, renewable energy and savings, activates the principle of positive discrimination when it comes to imports. Turkey's point in external dependency does not satisfy the government, which allows distribution companies to import electricity. With what logic can it be explained that even distribution companies, such as electricity, are granted rights to import? If domestic production is not persistent and the principle of public imports is not applied, our country will be handed over to an energy and economic policy set up by private companies and international monopolyes. Dear friends, it is imperative that we quickly return to our own resources so that we can get out of the energy import spiral that imprisoned Turkey. To this end, Turkey needs to increase its energy production capacity by considering fossil resources. Searches must be speeded up by taking possession of our abandoned oil and natural gas sources for foreign investors. 98% of natural gas, 91% of oil, 90 per cent of stone coal, which covers 87 per cent of Turkey's first energy consumption, is imported. This painting is beyond external dependency. Therefore, it must be supported not by selling thermal power plants based on local coal, our lignite resources, but by making environmental sensitivity efficient as well. The government's plan for this issue is a privatisation calendar. Energy policy without a long-term plan is unsustainable. It is now urgent to assess the country's interests of resources, which are extremely important for supply security. In this framework, renewable energy sources must be given priority and weight. It is clear that hundreds of small hydropower plants built in the creeks bring nothing but natural and living slaughter. The HES projects based on scientific data that address environmental, human and natural factors as the first measure should be supported, and the public should be allowed to invest. Since Turkey is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of sun, wind and geothermal resources, the energy future of our country depends on the right and efficient use of these resources. Our country, which has a solar potential equivalent to 87 million tonnes of oil, can produce electricity from 150,000 megawatts of wind and 2,500 megawatts of geothermal resources. Unlike the world, however, Turkey is unable to use renewable resources. In addition to geothermal power plants with wind and solar power plants, which are also technologically making major improvements, there should be investments in energy production methods that are still in the process of crawling, such as biogas, wave energy. This framework requires the creation of plants that produce electricity from both local thermal resources and wind and solar power within the country and the development of technologies to make these plants more efficient.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0224par0054	Thank you, Mr. Ozbolat.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0223par0055	I thank you, sir. I offer my love and my respect.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0224par0058	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 11 of Article 5 of the Electric Market Act, we propose and propose that the declaration be added so that it does not interfere with the conditions of competition. Emin Çınar (Castamon) and his friends Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0225par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0224par0067	Mr. Chanar, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0226par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the amendment proposal in Article 5 (11) of Electric Market Law Bill 426. I salute your high council. The biggest contribution to developing countries has been energy sources. Unfortunately, in our country, our energy resources are not being used actively enough. In electrical energy, 60 per cent of our country's electricity production is provided by import. In our country, 44% of electricity production is derived from natural gas, 12.5 per cent from imported coal. So we're an externally dependent country, as well as an electrical production raw material. As of today, 25 per cent of our imports are energy imports. However, when we look at developed countries, these countries have become able to use their energy resources in the best way, produce their energy without being dependent on the outside, and even export energy. If we want to be the great government, we have to produce all kinds of energy ourselves. And we need to do that from our natural resources, renewable energy sources, or secure nuclear power plants, without being dependent on the outside. We'll have to do all the work we need to do in no time. Given the rapid development of technology today, we must remember that electricity is an essential part of our lives. Since we can't produce our own electricity with the right resources, because we get most of it through imports, our citizen's electricity bill is severely reflected. Electricity production and supply costs, as well as high taxes, raise electricity bills substantially. The electricity bills we pay in our homes are 12 per cent missing, 2 per cent TRT share, 5 per cent municipal consumption tax, 1 per cent energy fund share, 5 per cent electricity consumption tax, meter reading price, distribution price, sales price, and 18 per cent VAT is added, and our citizen's electricity bill increases by 100 per cent. Now, I ask you, what is the missing fugitive cost reflected in our bills? Why does a citizen who uses his electricity legally have to pay the missing fugitive price? Why are the missing fugitive rates in a part of the country on our honest citizen's back? In this way, both our honest citizens are victimized and those who use electricity illegally are encouraged. What the government has to do is distribute justice equally. The same legal regulations must be made to prevent illegal use and to prevent illegal use immediately at the point where our honest citizens are having difficulty paying, where they have been cut off due to electricity delaying within a month. The missing fugitive rates that power distribution companies collect are an unfair profit. Today, in Kastamonun, my constituency, even though there are weeks of power outages in our villages, our citizens pay electricity bills day-to-day and the electricity collection rate in our region is 95%. Dear lawmakers, as our population grows, we will need more energy. To leave a prosperous future for our nation, we must now take serious measures, measures. We're forced to take some serious direction on how we can make our energy the cheapest. We need to direct our production of electricity to cheaper resources and secure nuclear energy, not natural gas, away from understanding either electrical or pay. We need to focus on RDs to produce more advanced, cheaper, and safer energy. We really need to speed up these studies and increase them. We have to do this work to be a country that is not dependent on the outside of energy, that can stand on its own two feet, whatever it takes. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your high council and await your support for our motion.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0227par0077	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in the 6th article, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 6 of the Electric Market Act (1). We offer and propose that the phrase "decisive" in his joke be changed to "two years." Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th draft of the current draft of 426 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. It is in the form of 5. The joke has been changed into a "rillion" (a) (a) (a) (a) or (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) At the end of the joke, the collateral given by the preconceived corporate person will be returned. At the end of the joke, the letter of security cannot exceed £100,000 for smaller facilities than 50 MW. Their statements have been added. Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Durdu Özbolat Candan Öğüer Mehmet Ali Sesam I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 426 is the 6th Amendment bill of the Electric Market Act. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0228par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0227par0106	I'm reading the reason: This is item 3. And seven. Their jokes did not specify whether the collateral would be returned due to the cancellation of the pre-license. This should not be left to the initiative of the EPDK and be made legal clear. Six for the reasons mentioned. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th draft of the current draft of 426 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. It is in the form of 5. The joke has been changed into a "rillion" (a) (a) (a) (a) or (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) At the end of the joke, the collateral given by the pre-licensed corporate person will be returned. At the end of the joke, the letter of security cannot exceed £100,000 for smaller facilities than 50 MW. Their expressions are added. Osman Aydın and his friends. Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0229par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0227par0118	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0230par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The goal of the 6th article was described as the period of preliminary licensing project's preparation for construction, and the project was targeted at this time. But we've become very concerned about the energy policies that we've just told you about, the implementation of the High Planning Board targets and the deployment of 70 per cent local resources targeted by the Higher Planning Board, that this substance will cause a problem, that it will increase bureaucracy in developing new projects, and that the project pool will create a project capacity that investors can immediately invest in, and that it will cause us more than two-and-a-half to three years of this process of realisation, and that it will cause us more trouble with the investment of the realisation of wind energy projects today. In particular, the fact that the pre-license applications of those who could not get access to these documents from official institutions, state agencies, public institutions, their documents, their license applications from their state agencies during their time, which are not considered a miracle, that the development of this project pool, its growth, its growth, and the deployment of these available resources, especially for the purpose of wind and solar energy, are going to be triggered by the fact that the potential of the 50 billion megawatt wind potential is going to be activated, and that the potential of thousands of megawatts of solar energy is going to be activated. We think it's very important for us, especially in terms of realisation time, in terms of the fact that this period of this project, in the period of permits today, in terms of the fact that the release of 40 months, as long as it's realized, and that the extension of the period of the period of this project, the amount of time of time, the amount of time of time of time, the amount of time of time of time, the amount of time of time of time, the amount of time of time of time in which local resources, and the fact of production of the higher planning board, is very important for production, because we think that this energy period, especially in 2012, is going to be put into action, in the context of the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact that the fact that the fact that the foreign trade has been released in the current economy, is going to be put into action, and that the same way, is the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the same thing as the current process of the local resources. That's why we made this motion. We believe that local resources will be greatly advantageous if accepted. Thank you all very, very much, very much.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0231par0126	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 6 of the Electric Market Act (1). We offer and propose that the phrase "decisive" in his joke be changed to "two years." Scholar Light (Kütahya) and his friends. Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0232par0135	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0231par0136	Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0233par0138	Mr. President, I have received your word on the motion we've made. I salute you all. Look, we've made a motion to transform the vagueness of this material into a clearer and clearer form. I just got off the phone with the Minister, the bureaucrat friends, but somehow he wasn't accepted. It's actually something similar to the previous substance. It says here: "For a certain length of time, you will be given a pre-license by the firm. " How long is a fixed period of time? The fifth joke says that the length of the pre-license period cannot exceed 24 months, except for the fact that it is a strong cause. The council can extend that time by half, depending on the type of resource and the power of the board. Now, what's the bottom line if it doesn't get past 24 months? Or are you going to give it to the person when you're giving it to them? So you can give me a month, which means you can give me 24 months. Now, to determine that, we've offered to change this subject into a two-year-old subject in this particular pre-license sentence, which is reasonable, reasonable. Look, with a lot of jokes, of course, of course, of serious investors to be determined, you know, really serious investors to be picked up, really investors, really serious investors to put aside here a little bit, or to protect their rights, their law, or to protect their law, or to look at the application's application rates, I don't know what it's going to be, but I don't think I'm going to risk putting myself at risk in the 40 percent of the time of the application, not knowing what's going to happen when I'm going to start an investment. It says here that a person who cannot obtain permission, approval, registration or such documents during the pre-license period, who cannot submit to the right to property or use of the production facility, who does not fulfill the obligations set by the institution cannot be licensed. So, there are guarantees, etc., etc., and so I think it needs to be changed in order to make this matter more specific in this sense. Again, at the point where these licenses apply, there's actually another clause or something that needs to be presented in this law. The speakers just expressed that we're going to implement local resources, renewable energy... Well, the High Planning Board put 70 percent as a target, but that's not how it looks when we look at the license applications here, the fittests, the license holders. In fact, we're going to be dependent even more on the outside, so when we look at the sum of those who have been applied, applied, applied, and licensed, there's a total of 124,000 megawatts, but look, there's still 55,871 megawatt gas applications. Besides, the stone coal is seriously relocated. It's 24.328 megawatts of stone coal, so all of these plants, based on forces such as natural gas, stone coal, are going to continue our external dependency. So, in applications related to domestic and renewable resources, there could also be an adjustment to applications for externally dependent resources such as natural gas, such as stone coal, with a regulation in this law, or to open the way for others, but all of this is not really carefully prepared, so here are the motions that we're prepared for, and we're going to see the motion that we're putting out in good faith, and you're going to reject it a little bit later. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0234par0146	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals in Article 7; I read them and process them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seven of the Electric Market Law Bill. Article (1). The addition of the declaration of "organized industrial region" in its joke, and the introduction of the provision of the reformed industrial zone, (5). In his joke, "20 per cent" was also "25 per cent" and (6 per cent). In his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "Ba-candity" be changed to "The Council by receiving the Ministry's view." Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second joke of Article 7 (b) of the 426 Electric Market Law Bill, which is currently in session, is to be replaced and proposed in the following way by the "Oganize wholesale electricity markets" (c) and the "Organized wholesale electricity markets" (c) in front of it. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar Tülay Kaynarca Ismail Tamer Ahmet Orphankaya "For the facilities taken under licenses based on wind energy to build a production facility, in the case of a positive view of the connection taken from Turkey's Electric Message Company General Directorate and its related distribution company, no further application for licensing in the first license application for the institution and new power to be formed at the end of capacity growth will be allowed to increase capacity, with conditions of use of current access point and tension levels, modernisation, renovation investments and renovations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 7th draft of the current draft of 426 rows. Article 1. It's an auto-producer group of auto-roductors and auto-roductors group 4 following the declaration of the corporate personality in the joke. It's a c. Applying for wind or solar power-based electricity production facilities that provide the necessary conditions for the application of presumption is constantly taken by the Institution and sent to TEİASİ or related distribution company for binding capacity work. 20 per cent of the joke has been changed to 10 per cent; 3. The joke has been changed as follows. Osman Aydın Haydar Akar chooses Vahaap Durdu Özbolat Candan Üşüker Kemal Millendereli Mehmet Ali Sesame Umit Özşım The production facility is not considered by the real or legal person who is producing unlicensed production or producing without a license under its own legal identity license or without its distribution system, although it has the ability to use it on its record, to use it, to use it, to use it, to use it, to use it, to use it, to use it, to use it, to use it, or to provide its rights to use it, or to supply its rights to use it through financial lease, or to supply its rights. I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 426 Electric Market Bill 7. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Nazmi Gür Do you agree with the commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0235par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0234par0183	I'm reading the reason: Autotroducer and autoroductor group applications, subject to a separate license in production activities in Law 4628, have been removed and temporary in relation to existing autoroductors, 7. The article has been stated that "unless licensed by autoroductors, legal persons are granted a license to produce, which is protected by the rights of their current licenses, until 31/12/2012 and without the cost of receiving a license." Seven of the bill. Article 3. "The production of the production plant, which is based on cogeneration or renewable resources based on its efficiency, or on unlicensed production, is not considered to be a sale of electricity to the final consumer, the production of its energy in this facility, by using its energy without delivery or distribution system, to meet the need of its financial rentals, or operating rights." Thus, a certain protection for co-generation facilities has been maintained, while the rights of those producing autoproducers for their own needs have been restricted and all electrical energy has been opened to the market. The proportional constraint on selling the surplus to the system has been eliminated by people with autoroductor licenses. Seven for those reasons. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 7th draft of the current draft of 426 rows. Article 1. Following the declaration of "the corporate personality of the organizational industrial zone" in the joke, the autoproducer and autoroductor group will arrive. At the top of the c-bend of the joke, applications for wind or solar power-based electricity production facilities, which provide the necessary conditions for the application for the application, are constantly received by the Institution and sent to TEİASİS or related distribution company for binding capacity work. 20 per cent of the joke has been changed to 10 per cent; 3. The joke has been changed as follows. Hope Özgümlı (Adana) and his friends ==Production==The production facility is not considered by the real or legal person who is producing unlicensed production or producing without a license or without a license to supply the energy produced by the company or by the company of the production company or the company, which is producing waste gases and waste heat released by prosesses, or based on renewable resources, which is based on its own legal or disseminated distribution system, but is not considered by the record that it has the energy it uses, it rents, or has the right to use its rights to use, or to use its rights to use it through financial rent, or to pay its rights to use its right to produce, or to produce electricity, even if it is under its own legal identity license or unlicated. Do you agree with the commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Do you agree with the government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0236par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0234par0196	Mr. Millerdere, please.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0237par0198	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're on a major issue of production of this Electric Market Law bill. Dear friends, I believe we are all here sincerely trying to create better conditions for our country, for our people, for better living conditions. It is our duty to warn our ministry, our government, about our efforts, our debates, some of the things that are really wrong, the things that are relevant to fixing things that are wrong. Now, I'd like to share a graph with you, dear friends. From here, our friends who have always spoken for the ruling party, often, in 2002, that was the case, and in 2010 this was the case. This was our economy in 2002, this was our growth; we came here in 2012. Now, let's look at this graph, dear friends. We can make some very important assessments on this issue. Now, look, here, from 2002 to today, our capacity at hydraulics has grown 60 percent; it's good; our capacity for energy production in the local lignite has grown by 25 percent, but our production capacity in natural gas has grown by 110 percent. And our capacity in imported coal -- I bought this according to 2003 -- has grown 167 percent. So, as our resources grew by 25 percent, there was an increase in natural gas, especially over 100 percent. I want to share with you one more time what our friends and friends of the CHP have expressed here is so much commitment to natural gas. For today, we're spending around $10 billion to generate energy from natural gas. However, with those licenses on the agenda coming into existence, our natural gas plants will consume around 70 billion cubic metres of gas. So this is going to increase our gas spending, our gas spending alone, from 10 billion to 31 to 32 billion dollars. I mean, this is the kind of commitment we're looking for in the next ten years. I mean, we need to highlight them carefully and therefore, for example, like the autotroductor that is being held behind in this law, when we can add another 10,000 megawatts to these facilities, which, unfortunately, both in terms of productivity efficiency and environmental pollution, have very good results in carbon dioxide emissions, and so on and so on, until 2020, when we're just around 7,000 megawatts today, we're able to add another 10,000 megawatts to these facilities. So, I'd like to recap: if Turkey is making missiles today, if it can make drones, it can make wind plants with its own means; it can produce burn technologies that don't contaminate the environment; it can have extremely successful results in energy efficiency and electric car industry. It's very important that we focus here. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0238par0205	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0239par0206	Thank you. I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The second joke of Article 7 (b) of the 426 Electric Market Law Bill, which is currently in session, is to be replaced and proposed in the following way by the "Oganize wholesale electricity markets" (c) and the "Organized wholesale electricity markets" (c) in front of it. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "For the facilities taken under licenses based on wind energy to build a production facility, in the case of a positive view of the connection taken from Turkey's Electric Message Company General Directorate and its related distribution company, no further application for licensing in the first license application for the institution and new power to be formed at the end of capacity growth will be allowed to increase capacity, with conditions of use of current access point and tension levels, modernisation, renovation investments and renovations." Do you agree with the commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0240par0216	Mr. President, I'd like to bring this motion to the attention of the General Assembly. There is a condition in Article 7 (7) of the bill's commission text. I will not read the text as it is, but I read only the conditioned part: "First of all, it is necessary to have all the power established in your license run. " The ruling party's motion on the draft set, which was distributed when we started the draft talks, suggests that the joke (7) be removed entirely from the draft text. So as you go to a hundred and eighty degrees different point, the ruling party proposal that you're now reading, which is being processed, is renegotiated by the joke I just mentioned (7), which I just read to you, removes the condition I read to the General Assembly from there. Now I wonder, what is the reason for such a big turn? Is the condition in the commission text (7) describing a specific firm or firm, so it was removed? Or is the content of this reading proposal, which will now be approved, describing a specific firm or firms? The reason for such a big turn is the fact that our group is curious, I'm curious. The General Assembly will make a better assessment if the government gives us an explanation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0241par0219	Mr. President, the motive is very clear. And when the cause is read, it shall speak its truth.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0242par0220	No, two of them are... fake or fake?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0240par0221	I mean, what's the reason for such a big turn?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0243par0222	Yes, the Commission, you leave it to discretion. Do you agree with the government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0244par0224	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0243par0225	Yes, I'm reading the reason: The change proposed in the second joke aims to ensure that there is no result that production companies cannot make bilateral agreements, because the definition of organised wholesale electricity markets does not include bilateral agreements; the amendment in the seventh joke and the same provision in Article 4628 of the Law related to this law are carried into this law. The commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. Here, Mr. President, it is made very clear that the General Directorate of the Turkish Electric Transport Corporation is stated in all other parts of the law, and so is it described in all the other parts of the law. I'd like to offer your appreciation for the request to be edited into this.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0245par0231	So that's the third correction, that's what it sounds like!
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0243par0232	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seven of the Electric Market Law Bill. Article (1). The addition of the declaration of "organized industrial region" in its joke, and the introduction of the provision of the reformed industrial zone, (5). In his joke, "20 per cent" was also "25 per cent" and (6 per cent). In his joke, we propose and propose that the declaration of the Ministry be changed to "The Council by receiving the Ministry's view." Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Do you agree with the government?
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0246par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0243par0241	Mr. Dedeoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0247par0243	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the amendment proposal for the Power Market Bill, 426 rows. I hereby salute your high council. Members of lawmakers, the reasons for rapid population growth and increasing urbanisation and industrialization depend on this are continuing to increase energy consumption in our country. Today, energy production in the world is mostly covered by fossil fuel thermal and hydroelectric plants and nuclear power plants. Energy sources, such as fossil oil, coal, and gas, which are widely used in Turkey, are limited, providing very little of the country's needs. Hence, our dependence on energy is increasing. The continued increase of need and rising prices increase the money paid for imports for oil and natural gas. Turkey, which has paid $10 billion for energy imports by 2003, is now paying around $60 billion. Last year, $23.2 billion paid for energy imports was paid for natural gas, $15.9 billion for crude oil, and $15.6 billion for fuel costs. Turkey also imports $4.6 billion of coal in 2012. Our coal-rich country has started importing more coal every year. False policies have also made Turkey an importer of oil and natural gas, as well as an important coal importer. Mr. President, the interesting thing is that Turkey imports coal from one side and delivers coal reserves from the other. The government has just signed an agreement in early January, which it considers important. As part of this agreement, the United Arab Emirates have been given the key lignite reserves of our Kahramanmarash. Between Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, it is planned to mine lignite coals in the Afşin-Elbistan region and create new thermal plants in this region, but the government does not invest in its current A plant, it does not run Rantabl. These plants that will be installed will contaminate the air that is already dirty in the region. There must be a measure of air pollution here by the government and a cheap supply of energy for Kahramanmarash. In our country, energy is achieved under very difficult conditions, as everyone knows. Thermal plants cause pollution and hydroelectric plants to destroy nature. That is why companies often face their concerned local populations, and there are unwanted results. With all these difficulties going on and heavy costs being paid for energy in our country, street lights and streetlights shining bright in the morning, parks and weblights, window lamps sting inside us. As a government, as a nation, we must take precautions. The issue of energy savings in our country has now become a national issue. The production and consumption of our main energy sources must be reconsidered. The country must reassess its potential and prepare the necessary arrangements under a national policy. The electricity market bill is more likely to disrupt the market than to regulate it in terms of content. The draft bill contains numerous anti-constitutional regulations. The bill, which does not provide cheap energy for industry and agriculture, and the amount of property owned by citizens, are transferred to distribution companies without even a statement. Two per cent of TRT shares have not been removed with missing fugitive prices, and it continues to bring burdens to citizens. I ask for the acceptance of our amendment proposal, and I hereby salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit06spe0248par0250	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes in the accepted framework of the motion, which was accepted by a denominator -- those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a three-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-06sit07spe0248par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 426. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of the Foreign and International Protection Act and Human Rights Review Commission, the European Union Compliance Commission and the Interior Commission reports in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday, March 7, 2013, it is 15 p.m. to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
