tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, the Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ has an off-the-book request on behalf of Article 59 of the Interior Charter, marking March 14th Medical Day. I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. A statement request for lawmakers without a group has been filed. I'd like to ask the members of the non-group to notify our presidency of their commitment demands. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten for political party groups, five for lawmakers without a group. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear members of the nation, at the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Today is March 14th, Medical Day. In fact, our Minister of Health will be here to meet with you in person, but our Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu Sir was not here because he attended a program held in İstanbul on March 14th in honor of the Day of Medicine. In his name and in the name of our government, I welcome you to share our views on the March 14th Day of Medicine. Today is March 14, 2013. A hundred and eighty-six years ago, on March 14, 1827, the first modern medical school was established in our country. The first Day of Medicine was celebrated on March 14, 1919 by medical students who reacted against the occupation forces in Istanbul, which was occupied after World War I. Over the years following the establishment of our Republic, new medical schools have been established, and our country has reached world standards in terms of the prevalence and quality of health care with the hands of a new generation of medical people. In the past 11 years, our country has gone through serious distances towards the greater planning, better quality, more accessible, more human-orientedness of health care. Patient satisfaction has risen beyond the paleness of the past. Yes, as a government, let the people live in the state. We've done everything we can to parallel our citizens' satisfaction graphs and our health workers' gratification graphs, and we'll continue to show them. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are at least as valuable as the systems, as valuable as technology, at least as the therapeutic conditions, to establish a love relationship between society, individual, human and human. Because health workers are directly dealing with humans, and they are therefore carrying out a great task. Therefore, it is vital to cultivate a love relationship. Apart from other professions, the sacredness of your existence is the practice of medicine because its essence is free and unanticipated service, sacrifice. It's not a medical profession for our physicians who don't finish their shift, who are knocked on the door without looking out for time, who don't relieve their patient's suffering. We can't forget the tearful sacrifices of our physicians and health workers, who say, "I'm going to keep mourning later, even though they've lost relatives and run to the hospital to help the wounded. " Every project that we have put into practice over the past 11 years has been successful by the labor, support, and extraordinary effort of our physicians and health workers. During that time, we have carried out the merger of hospitals, and it has been a great success with the contributions of our uniting physicians and health workers. Yesterday, our people who went to different hospitals, our people who were treated differently, became treated equally, no matter where they were in Turkey, and everyone had the same access to health. Of course, it's a big transformation, a big change project, with our physicians and our health workers. With the establishment of the SGK, the SEC, BUG-KUR, and the Retirement Ark were transformed into a new form, while the health field was reflected. In particular, the challenges faced by our people of the SEC have now been transferred to history. Our people who were treated as much as the drug in the warehouse of the SEC hospitals, who couldn't go to the country's pharmacies, all the hospitals' doors were opened, and the inequalities at this point were terminated against the social law state. A historic step took place here as well. Of course, all of this and many other health care has been done, of course, with our physicians, of course, with our other medical staff. If their contribution, their sacrifice, their work, and their adaptability to these new projects had not been adopted, these projects might not have shown the expected success. I would like to express from here specifically that as much as our government's will to transform, we have health care staff and health workers, physicians, who are willing to do so. I hereby thank you once again from the bottom of my heart to all of our physicians, our physicians, our medical staff, who have served our people in Turkish medicine. For those who have received the mercy of the righteous, with mercy, with gratitude, and with thanks. I wish those who are still on duty, and the rest of the work, a great deal of success. With their support for Turkey's steps, today Turkey is at a very different, but very different point. Dear lawmakers, in their transformation projects, the step that lifts the caste system is important, while other steps have made that importance even more important. For example, in Turkey, years of talk, it was controversial that the general health insurance had been implemented, but it had not been implemented. During the time of our governments, general health insurance was implemented, and at this point, our people were given a great deal of opportunity. The government has paid the premiums of our citizens who are unable to pay their mandatory health insurance premiums. So we don't have a single citizen left in our country who's not covered by public health insurance. And yet, another parallel step, whether we are rich or poor, by the time we turn 18, is a step by the state to pay for all of our people's health costs, whether it's any guarantee or not, which is a historic step for our country, which has led to another change. In the old days, they would take our children out on television, and we would need this much help to treat them. There would be news, there would be scenes in Turkish movies. Thank God, there are no more such news, no more scenes. For today, the government extends its hand to those who are sick, by his side, by his means, by his means, by his help; and today he takes care of them. At this point, there is not a single person in Turkey who can't take advantage of health. Such a comprehensive, huge step has been taken into these transformation projects. One other thing, it's health-related again. When the officer got sick or someone else got sick, there was a chain of transport. The mover didn't have any medical savings, so if he'd let him, he could have gone in with the chain of transport and been examined, but if he didn't, he would have caused other kinds of problems. Now, the chain of transport is history. When our people go with their birth certificate, they see all the doors open to them, without the chain of shipping, when they search for the solution of their problem, what's a mechanism that responds to it? He was brought to life, and another step was taken here, in health. Again, there were huge numbers on the drug prices. If you remember, every time you went to the pharmacy, you'd see the price tags on the drug that you took, and it had the price tag on it as much as the box of a drug. Every day a raise, every day a raise, every day a price goes up, and when our people go out for treatment, he asks which medicine is necessary, he takes part of it, he can't take part of it. Now there's been a huge change in prices, and at this point we've been able to make all the needs of our nation by reducing drug prices at large rates and expanding the scope of the SGK, and there's been another change in that sense, another transformation. I remember, in 2003, there was a specialist in one of my districts, in one of our districts, when he was transferred, the people of the county had taken a walk, we had one specialist, we had no other physician, and he was transferred. Because we needed a doctor, and we needed an attending. In the steps we took, with the measures we took, we've done studies that have increased our number of physicians and our number of specialists. Currently, we have specialists all over Turkey, and the number of places that do not exist has reached very, very little. In addition, another step was taken by implementing the Family Medicine Project, a historic step. Over the years, in our country, it has been discussed to implement the family medicine project, which has been postponed for different reasons. However, the measures taken by our governments have brought family medicine to life through their work, and today every single one of our people has a family physician, and there has been a significant success in getting in touch with them and the proper treatment of the right treatment at every stage of the disease. As this system sits down, I sincerely believe that the benefit of our people will be better results in the success of our health policies. Dear lawmakers, when I was elected new MP, my countrymen came to me. When I ask him what he's going to get, he'll pay for it, he'll pay for it in his own pocket, he'll pay for it, he'll take it out of his own pocket, he'll take it in his own pocket, he'll take it in his own pocket, he'll pay for it, he'll ask for it. Why is this money taken from you? Why is it not taken from my brother of BUG-KUR? Unfortunately, there's no money when you're an officer, but when you're from BUG-KUR, our citizen pays all his expenses out of his pocket, and then he stands in line at the gates of politicians to get it out of the government. Another view is about SEC employees. There were contract hospitals with the SEC, and there were those without contracts. If there's a chartered hospital, then the S.S.K. used to pay for the treatments at that hospital. But if he doesn't have a contract -- your wife has given birth or you've been treated -- my brother from the USSR pays for it, and he gets the receipts, but that's not enough to get the money back from the government. You know what I need? You also have to sue the USSR. You'll go to court, you'll win the case, you'll pass the Supreme Court phase, and the verdict will be final, and then you'll execute it. What kind of nonsense is that? On the one hand, we say that all our citizens are equal -- the Constitution says so -- we call it the state of law, but on the other hand, we bring in the caste system that is in the history books and we actually continue it in practice. This, in the last ten years, has provided policies by the AK PARTY authorities. Now we've united all these structures. All of our people who are registered with the SGK today, all of our people who are registered with health insurance, whether they have a free profession or a worker anywhere, are taking advantage of health services in the same way, regardless of their adjectives, my freelancer brother doesn't have to pay for it, so we've brought it to the point where he can take advantage of the state without paying for it. This is an important step, a historic step, one of the important stages of the major transformation in health care. Of course, when it's done... I just said that at the beginning of my words about the drugstores. Now, some of your people are opening the doors to you pharmacies. If you're an officer, all doors are open to you. E, BUG-KUR, he gives you his medicine from his pocket, but if you're from the USSR, the door to the pharmacy is closed to you, and the doors to the SEC hospitals are open. The more drugs there are in the warehouse, the more medical supplies there are in the warehouse. Okay? This is man, this is man, and this is working for the development of this country, and the other is working for it. But over the years, some of the people of this country have been opened the doors to all the drugstores, some have been opened to the warehouses of SEC hospitals, and many governments have seen this inequality, but they haven't changed it. With the work we've done, it's a transfer to history. The new generation doesn't know it anymore, and such an application is no longer in Turkey. Equally, historical steps have been taken for our people to benefit from health care and to access health care wherever they may be. He didn't go to the villages, he didn't know about the village ambulance because the ambulance would only go to the city centers, where he would pick up the patients, and the villagers wouldn't ask for an ambulance, so he rarely took a taxi and took a van. Of course, finding an ambulance in the snow in winter or in places where there's a sea is another problem. We have a lot of people abroad, someone got sick -- I remember from my high school -- who was taken to Germany on a plane from Germany, and people sighed, and that's how the state takes care of the people. Look at ours, look at the German hand. But, now, at the point where we're here, thank God, today our Turkey has helicopter ambulances and aircraft ambulances and marine ambulances, and there's an unreachable ambulance, and Turkey has nowhere to go, with Allah's permission, a power, an opportunity, and our people have found a better way to take advantage of health care. We've given access to private hospitals. In the past, private hospitals were only places for rich people to go, and they weren't everywhere, but where we came from, there were more than one private hospital in many of our provinces of Turkey, and we almost ran out of private hospitals and hospitals in many counties. Sure, they don't have problems, they don't have problems with practice? I do. There's nothing missing? I do. Because you're setting up a new system, it's going to have flaws, it's going to have flaws, it's important to have the will to eliminate them, it's going to be able to work to take the system further by putting it in. At this point, our government continues to take measures, take steps, and implement decisions to ensure that the private hospital system can function healthier, better. Today, in many parts of our country, we have given our people the opportunity to benefit from health as well. Now, the city hospitals project is under way. In the past few weeks, the laws of our great Parliament have also been passed, and in the important centers of our country, we will implement city hospitals, and our people will reach a better place. We're taking steps to transform hospitals all over Turkey, building new hospitals. We're taking steps with hospitals with a single room, a WCίsi, a sink, an escort's room, to provide all the provinces and counties of Turkey. We've equipped our hospitals with technological equipment, and we'll continue to rig them. We did all this work with our physicians, with our health workers. On one side of all these change projects, the government's will, and if it has a signature, it says that our physicians and health workers have their signatures on the other, and I congratulate them again, and thank them, and hope that the Day of Medicine will be blessed, and good luck, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0003par0032	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of the group, the first speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Muharrem Iş, Erzincan MP. Mr. Light, please. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0004par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is March 14th, Medical Day. First of all, I'm celebrating my colleagues' Day of Medicine. Of course, as the Minister was speaking here earlier, as usual, he told me not what my return to health would bring, but the advertising part. But, what's in the kitchen, he never mentioned them. Let me start by talking about drug payments. Yes, when there were SEC hospitals, they were given whatever drugs there were in SEC pharmacies, but at least they were taking their medications. Friends who are now colleagues, and everyone knows about it. Whatever the cheapest drug is, whatever the unpaid or unpaid drug is, whatever's off the market. And if he's gonna get them, he's gonna get them by paying the difference, nothing's changed. As for the SEC hospitals: the SEC hospitals are closed, it's good, they're gone, but right now, Mr. Secretary of State has told us about city hospitals with public-special partnership. What do they call SEC hospitals? There's a lot of condensation, so because of the pileup, the patients go here and wait in line, and we lift it up. What are you doing now? Now you're doing the same thing. There used to be at least one or two S.S.K. hospitals in the cities, patients were leaving. Now you're collecting patients from a specific area, 40 kilometers, 50 kilometers, 60 kilometers, and they're all coming in. In the past, only the SEC patients were going to the USSR, and now all the patients are going to the same hospital, and nothing changes. Of course, I don't want to talk about the runts under this one right now. Of course, what is so special about March 14th Medical Day? Here the medical students, my fellow physicians, other health workers, come together, talk about their problems, their longings, and they say, "Let's figure this out." They hope. And since it's Medical Day, the ruling authorities say, OK, we'll figure it out, we'll support you. But that Day of Medicine is forgotten, and they're exposed to violence again on the second day, and they're under pressure again, and they're being subjected to all kinds of insults, and there's no solution to that. About four or five months ago, when our friend Ersan Arslan passed away, when the subject of violence came here, you disagreed, before, after our friend was murdered, after he was murdered, you accepted here again. Still no results, no solutions. You're getting a solution, and you're showing it on TV as a public spot, where the doctor friend will turn the phone around, the security guard will run, he'll save our friend. Of course, speaking of public spotlight, he started to spin again on television, and underneath that, there are special transfers. What's in there? The nurse is looking for the doctor Mr. Doctor, Mr. Mehmet will be here at quarter past nine, and you will examine him. You say: "All right, come. The doctor is coming, Mr. Mehmet, where is he?" There is no such thing in Turkey. Turkey leaves again at seven in the morning. Patients are waiting again. I'll give you a number. At Erzincan, when I left last week, there were 4,774 patients, as of one o'clock, 4,500 patients in the other hospital. Which friend of mine should take care of these patients? My paediatrician friend is there, and I'm going to quit. I asked him why, and I looked at the third patient, and now he says 150 patients are waiting behind him. Did you solve health problems with this system? Of course, for ten years, when you've been transforming in health, you've connected everything to the physicians. The physician was responsible for all the bad things you could not do, and you were the only one responsible for the good things you did. You've never given the physician the proper value. We've seen this in all applications. Mr. Minister of Health -- our former Minister of Health -- our Prime Minister -- has always put the necessary pressure on physicians, and he says, "What am I going to do to the physician who will hold you hostage there?" After that, the hostage is up. You say, "The shield is in foreclosure." From now on, okay, the patients may not be held there, but the foreclosures are being paid. Of course, what you're doing here -- as I've always said -- is saluting health workers, especially physicians, to your selection, and raising satisfaction there. Of course, speaking of satisfaction... you say that patient satisfaction was 35 percent in 2002, which is now 70 percent in the 70s. Right. Who? Here's to the satisfaction of the patients who get there and get there. But in 2002, a patient goes to the doctor twice a year, and now he's going eight and a half times a year. You make it sound like a matter of pride. Why does one go too far? Why does a healthy person need to wander around the hospital, the hospital, my doctor friends? Because both my doctor friends are overwhelmed by the system you've brought in, and they can't treat it there, so they're moving it somewhere else. Patients are always going with the chain of transport. Plus, you brought family medicine, let's just say it's a good practice. What did you do with the family physicians after family practice came? You've made slaves for yourselves. You discredited the family physicians. You were supposed to bring a chain of transport to the family physicians. One day you brought it, Bayburt rose up, and you gave up. Why didn't you bring the chain then? Today, 500-1 to hospitals, especially emergencies. 000-1. 500 patients apply, depending on the hospital. When a heart attack patient jumps in there, you all wake up at us all at once, so the doctor jumps in, the doctor fails. What's more natural than a person who looks at 500 patients who jumps out of an emergency? You never see them, but for the sake of the vote, you don't bring a chain of transport for the citizens to suffer there. Now that you've brought a family physician, bring the chain to the family doctor so I can see it. The family doctor will take care of the patients he'll actually treat there, and the other patients will make a transfer, and the patients will be able to get there comfortably. But no, what you have in mind is that patients can go anywhere. You say, "They'll be happy with us when they leave." Of course, the patient is going to go there, and he's suffering a little bit, and he's in a lot of trouble, but when he comes out, he gets his medicine, and when he comes to the pharmacy, maybe he forgets all the troubles he's been through, maybe he forgets them, and he's happy to go there. I've been to a pharmacy in Kemah, and I've been to a pharmacy. A friend of ours at the pharmacy, he didn't see me, and I sat down, and he was screaming, and he was yelling, and he was saying something. I went behind him and sat quietly. The pharmacist said: "The MP of the Pharmaceutical Party has arrived. " The patient -- our patient -- is also an imamist in one of our villages -- has returned: "I am pleased with this government. Now, I just told you about patient satisfaction. Of course, with the performance system, you have enslaved my fellow physicians, especially my fellow physicians. Our colleagues have become slaves, you're making our colleagues do a lot of unnecessary transactions. What is it, sir? I pay everything differently. Why don't you do a package program? When a doctor looks at the first step right now, it's obvious you're paying an internal physician. The money you're giving him on the second step is obvious, and you're making him want to buy return capital from it. You bring him in for additional payments, you make him ask for unnecessary tests, and then you wake up for medical attention, physicians do everything for knife money. You do a lot of scribbles. They made a hill especially during your administration. Of course, here's the thing, I've already told you. Our only misfortune, as physicians, is that the physicians who have been to us have always been the enemy of physicians. Where they would protect the physicians, they always tried to figure out how to pressure the physicians, how to use them to ourselves. And that was the point of health after that. Of course, we're looking at medical expenses. There's a tremendous increase in health expenses, but 5 percent of them return to public health, 5 percent return to the doctor. Where does the other money go? Private hospitals and private things. Of course, speaking of private hospitals, you say you've had some very successful results. Of course, it's a public, private partnership that Mr. Minister boasts so much about -- privatisation at the end of his private partnership. Everyone knows that, and while the whole world has given up on it, and the State has broken it, you have brought it with the new law, with our Prime Minister's shout, and you will make it completely privatized. We read what's in the papers today, and when we talk to our colleagues, we listen. Especially in the medical areas that you subcontract, whether it's MRI or CT work, hold on to the lab work, we see how wrong the results are, and when our friends are doing MRIs, they say they can't get the real picture because they're in a bad way when they're doing a C.T. scan. That's what we say when we travel, and it's in the press. Hence, the patient is delayed, so he brings about consequences that will lead to the death of patients such as cancer. And speaking of which, you're probably going to have to trick my colleagues the same way as the meetings today. I'm just saying. But today, you say you're going to take a step towards softening the full day. You need to remove the performance system before it softens the day, stop working my friends there like slaves. Of course, what we say to you is this: Let them speak, let them speak, let them speak, and we will do what we know. Is this citizen satisfied? He's pleased. Will he vote for us? He will. So it's no big deal. What about 126,000 doctors, 650,000 health workers? Minister, let me give you an example from Erzurum. Thanks to you today, our hospitals are operating at 114 percent. What does that mean? It means closing the hospitals, but when it comes to Erzurum, you pass a special defect, and now you're having a thousand-bed hospital built again, but when it comes to Erzincan, there's nowhere to be done. That's my return to health. You're going to add specific points, then you're going to privatize the hospitals there, whatever happens on the other side. I have one request from you, especially my fellow doctors, that we should give up this public-private partnership. With the CEOs you've assigned, the hospital quality, the hospitals you're going to close, the doctors you're going to have to give up before you make them work like slaves, and most importantly, we're going to have to give up the performance system, and somebody actually has to say, "Come out here today, we're giving you a real gift. My compliments to all of you, celebrating the medical holiday of my fellow physicians again.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0005par0057	Thank you, Mr. Light. Now on behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Congressman Ali Öz on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0006par0061	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Actions to mark March 14th Medical Day. I salute the High Council. I'm celebrating the 14th March Medical Day of all the doctors and health workers who make every sincere sacrifice for our people's health, make it a principle for them to live their lives, to fight even under the most difficult conditions, to perform the most honorable and challenging profession in the world, and to ask God's mercy for those who die. As we ask our retired colleagues for health and peace, I invite our colleagues in Parliament to join us in fighting for the opportunities that health workers deserve, and I congratulate them on their holiday. Now, over the last ten years, the Health Transformation Project has been mentioned, its schedule. Of course, it's become a habit in Parliament. If there's a health issue, the Minister of Health isn't here for a reason. The Law 2/B, which is the citizen's main problem, is not available here when the Minister of the Forest is to be discussed. They and others, of course, are respected ministers and valuable people of the administration, they're found here, but it's also a sign of how much you care about the day and the matter. In addition to March 14th Medical Day, instead of talking about what the Change in Health Programme brought, we have to explore what you've given them, what you've lost to them on this particular day of medicine, what you've done to them, how you've destroyed their dignity in society, and what we can do together in order to win them. From the very beginning, when you brought in the Full-Day Law, which no group, no group of political parties in Parliament, was against, you never stopped accusing us as if we were against the Full-Day Law, especially when we claimed that some flexible areas needed to be brought in. However, the Full-Day Law in Turkey has really raised serious problems at the point of the training of doctors who are raised in medical schools, especially universities. He mentioned private hospitals, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mr. Secretary, it's true that you've opened private hospitals, it's true that you've increased their numbers, but please be aware that in college, people who really need teachers or professors, even if they go to private hospitals, they can't afford the most basic surgery, they can't afford that kind of money, and they can't get those surgeries. A citizen who called just two days ago about a hip operation says the physician asked him for $20,000 -20 billion. Where will the citizen get this money? We have to sit down and think together and find the answer. Of course, in health, you are bragging about the new condition of insurance, insurance hospitals, especially the ease of access to medicine. There's been a transformation, a recovery. We don't deny it. We always express in your presence that we are on the side of all good things that have been done and that we welcome them. However, we believe that we should never ignore the fact that a number of different costs have been added to the number of prescription drug pens, along with transformation in health. Of course, one of our major health problems, especially in health care, is the area where health workers, physicians, have expressed a serious loss to themselves, and I regret to say, there has been a staffing through the yellow trade unions you've established. Please don't try to hide this fact from the public, try to trick people. You did it, and you didn't do it right. Liyakate... although he had exams to rise in office, the great Turkish nation knows very well that you are taking a serious stand in a field that should never have happened in health with the final decree of law enforcement. Violence in health is one of the most important problems of all of us. While violence is not only in the field of health, but in all areas of Turkey, we all know that violence has been inflicted on health workers, especially within the public sector, 16 times higher than in other areas. On this occasion, Dr. Ersin Arslan, who we lost on April 17th last year, I know a debt of mercy to remember our brother. At the point where violence has come, there is no need to investigate through lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, which was proposed in Parliament again last year as the March 14th Medical Day. Unfortunately, after this death incident occurred, we set up a commission. The commission began in Gaziantep, which completed its work and work. We planned to bring up a legal bill, especially with our friends in the entire Parliament research to raise 14 Martas, but I don't think they've reached it yet, but hopefully he'll come along and make an arrangement in their favor. Of course, the division of return capital revenues between physicians and health workers is one of the major problems among health workers. Although we have made it very clear that we find it difficult to find physicians in the remote parts of our country, unfortunately, the doctors in the same branch of the districts receive less returnable capital revenues than those working at the centre. Thus, the Ministry, which is struggling to send physicians here, must find a solution. The distribution of return capital, the fair share of return capital, must be reconsidered with absolute certainty. Especially after the public hospital union, it is wrong of the general secretary to be authorized to distribute capital -- if you'll excuse me. Does a chest and heart vascular surgeon have to find a patient by stabbing a passerby? A general surgeon has a number of patients coming in a day, but there's a certain quality of life-saving majors that may not be so sick. For him, our friends in this division have a obligation to at least get the capital back from an average income. We're also dealing with the immediate transfer of physicians to retirement after they're 65 years old. It's a legal obligation. But we have to remember, as it is expressed in every term, that, especially with the need for physicians in Turkey still continuing at a certain rate, I have brought the decree in the law, which has also opened the way for contracting work, at least one of the most important gifts we can give to our retired colleagues in memory of today, such as opening the way for them to work in an absolute figure of contracting status. Again, you do a different practice than those assigned to their investigative staff by law enforcement, health directors, vice principals, vice principals and vice principals, other ministries. As our friends there continue as researchers without being victims of their rights, these valuable employees within the Ministry of Health are one of the important injustices you've done to them, especially when you've done it as a government that has actually supported your Change in Health and succeeded them in this challenge. Finally, I would like to point out that even though Mr. Secretary is not a physician, in his speech as a March 14th Medical Day, they have made it clear to all health workers that physicians are doing this job with genuine dedication, that they don't have the time frame, that they don't even know when their doors are going to be stolen; and I thank them in that sense, but let's give it to some professional groups, as we do, to all health workers, especially physicians. I mean, especially the physician in Parliament believes that our friends should be of serious support in this matter, and I salute the Grand Assembly, and I celebrate the Medical Day of all health workers.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0007par0078	Mr. Oz, thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, our third speaker is Mr. Idris Baluken. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0008par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the grounds of March 14th Medical Day. I salute your committee. Before I speak, I too celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all our fellow physicians, colleagues, and all health workers, health workers. I wish for the days when they can lead an honorable life that they deserve, that they can fulfill the need for their professional development, that health problems have been solved, and that March 14th is really celebrated in the spirit of a holiday, with a celebration of a holiday. From here, our dear friends, dear speakers, have expressed many problems. In fact, on this platform, we have repeatedly voiced problems with health. Again, outside of this bench, we've shared many times with civil society organizations, occupational organisations, trade unions, the problems with health, in fact, to sum up. We fit all these problems in health into one sentence. In particular, during the EC PARTY period, we have repeatedly stated that the intensive, persistent Health Transformation Project (PARTI) -- which has been implemented before -- especially during the AK PARTI rule -- has been the basis of today's problems, which are recklessly sustained and are based on market logic, the Health Transformation Project (HD). That's what we're saying today. We'll also offer our solution proposals. However, I would like to point out a few things about the practice of medicine or the working conditions of health workers and the challenges they face in practical life. In fact, the oldest and most sacred profession in history is the medical profession of human healing. When we look at all professions, every profession has its dignity, it has its authenticity, it has its values. However, there are problems and disasters that human beings have experienced in the exploitation of every profession in a different way. But for medical science, medicine, healthcare workers, we can't talk about this kind of exploitation system, this kind of misuse system. From the existence of mankind to this day, the medical profession has been constantly in the service of mankind through the art of healing people, the art of healing the sick. In carrying out this ministry, he has completely put aside the concept of time. All 24 hours have been discussed in a way that must always be vigilant for physicians and health workers in order to fulfill the requirement of the profession, keeping the responsibility to be in charge at all times. In doing so, physicians and health workers, when compared with all other professions, were forced to make more sacrifices in the subject of sacrifice than in the subject of self - sacrifice, in the matter of apparent calmness, in the matter of their hidden emotionalities, in the matter of weariness and fatigue that they had to live within themselves, in fact, than in all other professions. While making all these sacrifices, physicians and health workers received their inspiration, their energy for fulfilling the requirements of their profession: A patient whose pain you relieve in the middle of the night, a few sentences that he expressed in his eyes about the lightness of his eyes or the shallowness of a patient's breathing pain, have guided you to overcome all the difficulties you've suffered at the point of fulfilling your profession. That's actually the biggest problem we have today. We've been through a lot of trauma on the doctor-patient relationship. In all these chaotic emotions, we believe that in the process of dealing with health problems, the relationship between the physicians and the patient who has made them dependent on their profession more and more dependent on their profession is unfortunately degenerative today, and that's what the practice is, especially the system that brings health to the market, the health capital, the profitability, and the health that makes health into a runt. Look, how do we know that? Only when we look at the violence against physicians and health workers can we see how badly this relationship has been damaged. If violence is inflicted on a female physician, a pregnant woman's physician, by a patient or a sick relative, it means that we have left nothing of a doctor-patient relationship, that we have not been able to protect our inherited inheritance well. Look, I'd like to read a few sentences from the first original version of Hippocrates and the text from all medical schools today. In this oath, which he believes in, it says: "I will fulfill this vow and my word as far as I can. I'm going to know my teacher in this art like my father, share my livelihood with him, split my purse with him if he needs money, teach his children this art without a fee or a bond if they want to learn. I mean, the solidarity, the perspective among colleagues, the understanding that colleagues see their own pockets, even their own sacs, the understanding that puts their own teacher in his father's place today, and the problems that are growing in the market logic of their health problems, as well as the avalanches of their health problems. Today, of course, when we look at the applications of Project Transformation in Health, we would like to emphasize again that all of these practices, particularly regarding Full Day Law, health insurance, family medicine, and finally about public private partnership, are the main source of problems. While we were discussing the Full-Day Law, we said: "We are not opposed to the Full-Day Law, but in a way that is worthy of human dignity, we have removed the hands of the physician from the pockets of the patient, if a fee can be established for all physicians to maintain their own lives. If the state can perform this task, the Full-Day Law will remove many problems from the agenda and bring significant improvements on the full-day Law. But on that day, we have closed the offices on the Full-Day Law, a propaganda has been taken out of the patient's pocket. We'd like to reiterate that this package, which will be announced, can't be a solution at the point of overcoming existing problems just because the information passed to the public is true. We believe that not just university professors, but there should be a costing system that will sustain the lives of all physicians and health workers, from physicians who work in the field, to residents who work in the first place, to residents who work in the first place. During the implementation of general health insurance, we expressed that the judge's mentality has a sense of health as well as money. I'm afraid today his money-benefited health continues to bring a bitter prescription to the public day after day. We have stated the importance of the state providing health care for everyone, equal to every citizen, qualified, free of charge, in the native language, but unfortunately today I want to explain how I can create more space for capital than for health policies on the government's agenda. There are countless questions about the nurses, about the dentists, about the council, about what we're saying here. To address all of these questions by the government, this may be an important stimulus on March 14th; to review the current situation of health policy, it may be a new beginning for parliament's need to review all the policies; especially for very broad social areas, unions, trade organisations, and workshops. With this wish, I salute all of you with respect, with love, to present our solution proposals in my next speech. Again, I celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all our colleagues.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0009par0098	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The last speaker is AK PARTY Commissioner Kemalettin Aydın. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0102	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, today is March 14th, Medical Day, and we're discussing the health care services of Turkish medical doctors. But we need to talk about what sacrifices these doctors have served in health care, and I also wish that these Turkish medical doctors did not celebrate graduation by losing a term in the Liberation War, that they were the first to protest in the Liberation War, and that they were the first to contribute to the Battle of Salvation, and that all doctors who had come from Ibn Sinai to this side of the world should do God's mercy and the successful professions of all of our colleagues, and I wish all of them to remember this day by kissing the hands of my teachers, by kissing the hands of my elders. Our Minister has made his speech, where health has come from in Turkey... and my opposition MP friends have spoken on the stand with a very difficult psychology. I know that in our bilateral talks, God bless you, the good in health has become very serious, and we are very comfortable, and our patients are comfortable in hospitals, and we are happy with it. Despite their political identity, they speak with a little bit of difficult psychology. I don't have a problem understanding them either.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0011par0104	Are you talking to a doctor? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0105	Of course, our Minister has made his presentation, where he came from in Turkey. As the debate continues in the Supreme Assembly, I just want to tell you how the work in Turkey and the transformation in health in Turkey are seen by the world. Of course, we're self-conscious inside our house, we can be happy, but we need to look at how we're being looked at outside the house, what's being thought of about us. Especially the article published by the European Regional Office of the World Health Organization. In his successful health care reforms, he published an article in 2012. It says: "In 2002, Turkey was ranked among the OECD countries and the World Health Organization in the European region before the transformation in health, but when we came to 2012, the World Health Organization said that Turkey was a successful example in the same article. We can say anything here, and the world is saying something about us. Again, in the World Bank's publications, it says: "The transformation of health in Turkey after 2003 can be read as a textbook, and Turkey publishes a successful example as it completes what the World Health Organization plans to do for Turkey by 2015, with a transformation in health. Not just medical doctor friends, but all science-oriented friends know that the reality of a mature is that he is involved in international articles in the scientific world. Of course, it's not just in the articles of the world, but at the end of our conversation, we're going to talk about what the citizen said, of course. Again, the World Health Organization makes predictions about the health of countries around the world. In 2002, he predicted that Turkey would have a life expectancy of 75, but Turkey would have reached 75 living averages this year. Of course, there are many underlying factors in the arrival of this life - average to 75 so early.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0012par0109	You've extended it, God bless you!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0110	Within these factors, health infrastructure, health care, is quickly done. Again, the forecasts for Turkey need to be well assessed so that you can go out there and embrace the citizens. Or you'll just be saying hello to the citizen. Again, the World Health Organization for Turkey predicted that the rate of infant death in Turkey would be 16 per thousand in 2025, but it reached 11.7 per thousand in 2011 because of the transformation in health. Again, the World Health Organization, which predicted the mortality rates of mothers, said that at this time before 2002, the mother mortality rates dropped to 25 percent in 2015. But the transformation in health in Turkey reduced 15 percent in 2011 to 15 percent and below. Of course, it takes a long time to tell you how it happened. As long as it takes, I specifically ask for leniency from our government, our Prime Minister and our former Minister of Health and our current Minister of Health. Everyone knows I can't explain what you've done in ten years in ten minutes. However, and only in the meantime, I hope that our Prime Minister and Mr. Minister -- former and new -- will tolerate my failure to use limited time to explain what Mr. Akdağ and Mr. Muezzinoglu have done. Of course, the conversion of infrastructure and services in this health care have led to an increase in health satisfaction. While you're saying the increase of satisfaction and you're hearing it, especially the friends in the opposition may be difficult, but the satisfaction of 39.5% has reached 76 percent. Again, when I talk, I have to assume that a logic that criticises the higher number of applications to a physician would then be critical of 8.3 percent in all developed Western countries.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0013par0115	You, to the family doctor...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0116	You have to look at the underlying reasons for reaching the physician to reach 8.2. We're sons of the same district, lawmakers of the same country. The Silver House, Kelkit, and Erzincan are a short distance from each other. Of course, in the Silverhouse, the number of applications for physicians increases because a city with 17 experts before its transformation has now turned into a city that lacks no expert.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0014par0118	All over Çanakkale is incomplete.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0119	With 1,300 surgeries, he's up to 6,500 surgeries. Kelkit, a county hospital, is 30 miles [50 km] from Erzincan, and 50 minor surgeries were performed at the county hospital, while 2000 surgical surgeries were performed, reaching a city that fell from 8 to 9. Erzincan, with about 50 specialists in the field, reached 160, and, of course, with the university experts today before the transformation in health, there will be a high share of beds in Erzincan. Why is there a high level of beds? If you give him health care, he'll be sick in bed.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0014par0120	There aren't any attendings in Çanakkale, there aren't any districts.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0121	If you don't provide health care, if you stand there with 50 or 60 specialists, you can move 10 of those patients to Ankara, Istanbul every day, but if you have all the experts today, if you do all the surgery, if you have the ability to perform angiyo and perform open heart surgery, then of course Erzincan will have a high share of beds. I don't find it very right to call it a complaint. Again, if the number of beds in Erzincan, as we call them, has risen from 25 to 256, is it appropriate to criticize this?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0014par0123	Health isn't a hotel.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0124	It's hard to understand what we call a qualified number of beds before I transform in health.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0014par0125	You turned hospitals into hotels!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0126	From the eight or twelve-bed wards today, he became a one-bedroom, bathroom, toilet, shower, TV, sofa bed. This is from 25 to 256.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0014par0127	Don't do it, hotel in health!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0128	I will give you just one example: You speak as much as you want, and I will answer you with the speech of my aunt in Kelkit. As he passes by the hospital, he looks at a hospital outside Kelkit State Hospital and says, "Would they let us in if we came in here?" Another patient passed out, passed out, and when he sobered up in the hospital, he looked around and said, "Did I come to heaven?" Citizen, when you say this, you say what you want. While the citizens say their satisfaction in health in the 76 per cent, you can of course say anything when the citizens say their satisfaction in the EC PARTY in the 50 per cent.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0015par0129	You go ahead, Congressman, the citizen knows what's going on in health.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0130	Look, my friends, our Minister, Mr. Bozdağ, told me. In 1987, a brother of yours who worked at Kastamonu State Hospital as a general practitioner... Listen here, folks, and listen carefully, it belongs to your times. I was paid $350 in 1987 in Kastamon. When there was a patient in the E.R., when we sent him to Ankara, we called the patient to the doctor's office, and we said, "You have to deposit $19 to get the ambulance to take you to Ankara."
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0016par0131	There's no doctor in it!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0017par0132	Now the salary isn't enough.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0133	19 lira, figure out what time my salary is. But I'll give you another example, a nine-year-old boy named Semih. Kidney problems, dialysis. A kidney brought to Ankara within three-and-a-half hours, a kidney brought to Ankara, a kidney brought to Ankara, a kidney that was in need of a kidney transplant, while the Silverhouse, which had been forgotten and has only begun to serve in the AK PARTI administrations.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0017par0134	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0010par0135	Sameh is now first in his class. [ Applause ] Let's say one more thing, guys. Look at this. [[Noises from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the stage of this kidney transplant, in the stage of the transfer of the Semih, Kemalettin Aydın (a.k. a.k.a.) and MPs, politics were never needed. With good thoughts, our dear brothers sincerely celebrate the Day of Medicine, and I share with you that there is more to tell. Respect and respect, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0018par0143	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0019par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0018par0146	If you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0019par0147	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0020par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0018par0149	This is a speech about the group's decision, and we have friends in the line, and I'm gonna promise them off the agenda, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0020par0150	No, Mr. President, we have the right to respond to statements that, even if it's a private agenda, would leave our friends and our friends under suspicion.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0018par0151	Mr. Group President, all of your friends did it by naming names. Now, let's not get into this argument. Let's give it to friends, and then during the ten-person thing, friends will say whatever they want.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0021par0152	But in my opinion...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0020par0153	Look, representatives of the opposition, their representatives on the stand are under suspicion, and you're going to have to exercise our right to explain.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0018par0154	You listened to the same thing for the power representative, and so did I.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0020par0155	We have to explain what's going on with us.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0022par0156	It's not in your pocket. Just give it to me.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0018par0157	I hesitate to give you 550 people's time. Here you go, sir. Two minutes. I'll be fine after you give me your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0023par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, I've never spoken to you about health. It is not right for you to address society as if CHP MPs or opposition MPs are supporting us. I've never defended your health policies.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0024par0164	Tell me what the citizen at the hospital said.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0023par0165	Second, you have greatly praised the Silver House. I'm sure you know what the doctor you imported was doing there, too. You know, you know, we're going to bring in outside physicians because there aren't enough doctors in Turkey. We know about that, too. You mentioned the OECD average, and we're the last of the OECD countries in the life thing and the infant deaths and the female deaths. You mentioned the World Bank. Yes, the World Bank has already given you this policy in 2003, so apply it. Why? Because the biggest reason in America today is health tourism and the fact that someone in Turkey owns those hospitals... while a CAT scan is being drawn today for $1,500, we're making 70 lira. She's gonna get her patient checked out of here, and she's gonna take it for free. It's definitely not being invested for the Turkish nation. It's obvious who you're made for, and it's the same mind that those people you call people give you -- I'll tell you today at the Medical Day -- they say, "You crush the physicians as much as you can, slowly strip the patients, because patients are nonorganized communities, they can never get together, but physicians are dangerous. They were dangerous in the republic and in the War of Salvation. You take care of them, you crush them, and they will never come together organized. That's what you said. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0025par0170	Congressman, do you believe this yourself?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0023par0171	Yeah, it's in the World Bank reports.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0025par0172	Do you believe it or not? Don't say what you don't believe.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0026par0173	Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to three members of parliament. The first statement on the agenda belongs to Mr. Mustafa Baloglu, the Konya MP, who asked for the honour of March 14th Medical Day. Here you go, Mr. Baloglu.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0027par0180	Mr. President, I've been promised off the agenda because of March 14th Medical Day. I salute you all. Today, March 14th, we celebrate another Day of Medicine. This date began as Medical Day in our country after the opening of the medical schools of Medicine-i Amire and Surgery-i Amire on March 14, 1927. It is also considered the beginning of modern medicine. However, on March 14, 1919, the Festival of Medicine was first celebrated as a reaction to the invading forces in Istanbul. A rumor that has not been recorded is that it has been celebrated ever since, as the medical staff of the period has claimed that one of the meetings that were raided during secret meetings to break the invasion had been held for the Day of Medicine. Among those who set out in 1915 to make Çanakkale (Kanakkale), there are also young medics. On May 18, 1919, the Medical School of Medicine failed to graduate in 1921, because there were no returns from the Gallipoli front, where the records could not even be kept because of the weight of the conflict. After the Republic, they fought on the frontline of diseases, particularly malaria and tuberculosis, in our war-free country. They've taken on a heavy responsibility for our country. On this occasion, I honor and cherish all our colleagues who have contributed to the development of public health, shed light on our day with their teachings and works. Doctors who have read many times by the ancients, who have thought much, and who have been described as hard - to - work, practice a profession that requires fast-changing conditions and information to be kept in line through a very difficult education. We know that in order to become a physician, you need to love people, and in addition to that, you need to gain everlasting self - sacrifice, free and free help. It's a profession with no working hours, no day and night, which requires constant work at a very tiring pace. Besides, it's a job where a man has valuable duties, such as to cross the border of life and death. Medicine is an art. Today, there is a vast world of knowledge about a solid and sick person. On the threshold of the knowledge he has gained from this world, the most sacred of all creation is the art of understanding, the art of communicating with him, to preserve or correct human soul and body health. Science is a wise profession with its own dynamics in art and behavior. The physician is a scientist as well as an artist. Science requires to recognize, to question, to criticize, to combine research, to conclude, and to share the outcome on scientific platforms. All of this is essential in a scientist, therefore, to a physician. Medicine is a profession that is carried out with great self - sacrifice and human love. Especially the energy and the sacrifice of our physicians in our country. The protection of human health from the womb, the quick, accessible, easy, reliable treatment of those having health problems, is of great importance to improve the quality of our human life. Thus, the practice of medicine continued to maintain its distinguished place, increasing its importance day by day. Quality health care is the first condition of a healthy society. The developments in the healthcare sector in our country, important projects that have been implemented, are extremely rewarding. Turkey today draws the world's attention in its healthcare steps, and health innovations and practices are also set an example for other countries. Dear lawmakers have earned the world's appreciation for reforms under the Health Transformation Programme. A transformation of health care has been signed throughout our country, primarily the family medicine system. According to the TÜİK, our citizens' satisfaction rate has increased from 30 per cent to 76 per cent. More than 400,000 health workers who have worked for public health have made great sacrifices in the process. In order to provide public health care with superhuman zeal, they worked not only with work and work, but with an understanding of life. I'd like to finish what a dear teacher would say. As Mr. Akif Berki said, a part of me dies with every patient I lose, so every part of him dies when his patient dies. I salute you with a heartfelt greeting to my fellow physicians, the staff of healthcare staff, the tens of thousands of med students who are studying in schools today, and to all of our health workers, the March 14th Day of Medicine.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0028par0189	Thank you, Mr. Baloglu. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş, who wants to speak on behalf of the 98th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale on March 18th. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0029par0194	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on March 18, the 98th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, and the Day of Martyrs. I hereby salute your high council with love and respect. I celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all our physicians, especially Mr. Haberal, who we imprisoned in the dungeons. In Çanakkale, our heroes, who knew their homeland was virtuous, who saw their friend at the front die and saw that he too would be a martyr, wrote an epic tale to set an example for the oppressed people of the world. The imperialists only understood the insurmountableness of Çanakkale, leaving behind the pain and tears that cost more than 500,000 lives. By the end of the war, the Ottoman Empires, Russian and Austrian-Hungarian Empires were being wiped off the page of history, while the world was witnessing the legend of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the hero of the Anafartas and many of our nameless heroes, who carved his name on the two sides of the throat with gold letters, defiantly challenged seven heifers. This fuse burned in Çanakkale was the starting point of the war for independence. The First World War resulted in millions of people's deaths, loss, and suffering, billions of pounds of material loss, poverty, and misery. These days, we are ready for war with our neighbor Syria, and we can fight at any moment. Dear friends, let's not forget the Democratic Party's bill for dragging 5,090 citizens into the Korean War. Let us not forget that the empirical organization of the PKK has slaughtered tens of thousands of our citizens in nearly thirty years. Today, the AKP is begging at the foot of a terrorist organization that has fired on tens of thousands of fires. The AKP accuses and takes prisoners of coupting those who raise their voices, especially our commanders, in the dark of the night, instead of rooting out the terrorist organisation's nests. He's going on a drag hunt to put him in dungeons. He also punishes non-verbal provinces in the election. He punishes our Çanakkale both politically and economically, as if he was taking the wrath of the Sea Victory. The first blow to our province continues by closing down the Foundations County Manager and closing down the Forest Area Manager. By shutting down the Çanakkale Forest Regional Manager's office, which is 54 per cent of the forest area, the forest director's office opened in places that didn't even have a 1%. Can our Kazdağs and national parks be protected from a forest district headquarters 400km away? You continued to punish him by shutting down the Undersecretary of Maritime Çanakkale District Manager. Now, I ask you, is it possible with remote control to control and control the Çanakkale Strait, where sea traffic is the busiest? The AKP has been giving 90 years of our republic's savings to wives, friends, allies for ten years. You're also wasting people who oppose wrong practices. When a handful of workers who oppose the Talan at the Çanakkale Forest Regional Directorate fail to bring them to their knees with exile and threats, you shut down the Department of the Forest. For years, you've shut down Bozcaada and Eceabat courthouses and our republic's 11-year-old municipality. In the tiniest rain in our province, the streams are flowing, and the fields, and the stables, and the henhouses are flooded. Our citizens are dying of their lives and possessions. The AKP has upset the state order of our 90-year-old republic, making it impossible to get out again. Reminding me that the AKP authorities are trying to break the rule of law rather than solve the problems, I bow down once again with mercy and gratitude, with respect and love in their spiritual peace, our many nameless heroes who have sacrificed their lives to the holy land, which is watered by the blood of their homeland, particularly the Grand Ataturk. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0030par0208	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. The third non-responsive statement is from Mr. Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP, who asked to be mentioned as March 14th Medical Day. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0031par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to my last speech, I would like to stress that it is important to share 14 urgent requests to the Ministry of Health by the Turkish Medical Association. I'd like to share these demands with the General Assembly, reminding again that the meeting of these 14 urgent requests should be on both the agenda of parliament and the Ministry and its urgent agenda. 1) Retirement costs must be doubled immediately. 2) The costing system must be removed immediately according to performance, which brings the harsh rules of competition that destroys solidarity among physicians. Legal arrangements must be made for physicians who have previously had to resign due to full-time law to return to their former duties. 3) Changes in the Turkish Penal Code must be made for health workers and physicians to work under healthy and secure working conditions. 4) The activities of the Alo 184 SABIM line, which has become an area of abuse aimed at humiliating physicians and health workers in public and in the eyes of patients, must be stopped immediately; then the current situation must be assessed along with the health workers' organisations. 5) The opportunities for physicians to give patients enough time should be created, not in public or in private, but in less than 20 minutes, without realizing it. 6) The fee among all physicians must be fixed, and emergency regulations for their rights must be made. 7) In the event of the dismissal of physicians or health workers at private health services, it must be accepted that the Ministry of Health and the Union of Turkish Medical Medicine are on the table as sides, and there should be some legal difficult arrangements for this. 8) The practice that subsidizes workplace medicine should be abandoned to private sector companies that are not qualified to train workplace physicians; the application that destroys the powers of the Turkish Medical Corps must be halted immediately. 9) All antidemocratic practices, particularly mandatory service, should be removed immediately, affecting the professional, personal, and family life of physicians. 10) The right of all physicians, especially residents, should be used without exception, not more than fifty-six hours, including 40 hours of work, including seizures. Shifted system applications must be removed for normal police services. 11) In public health institutions, the contractor of public health care (also) must be terminated, and all health workers must be restored to state official status, which is running unsecuredly under the name "tashion worker" (also known as "tashion worker"). 12) The shortcomings of all medical schools in the country must be met, and the infrastructure necessary for staff, academic staff and equipment must be provided immediately. Medical schools must be stopped from implementing medical students above capacity. 13) All contributions and additional fees in health care, which commercialise health care, metamorizing health care, equal, free, qualified health care, must be removed. 14) In addition to obstructing the health rights of citizens and destroying the occupational and clinical independence of physicians, all restrictions must be lifted, with the participation of the Union of Turkish Medicines and the Association of Experts in this matter should be set up scientific studies. We think these 14 urgent requests are extremely important. On March 14th, we believe that many of the problems that physicians and health workers may experience can be resolved, especially if they are brought to life. Don't defend these health policies by sensing the hypoxic confusion period of patients who have come from the council bench and been syncopated. All hospitals, health workers and physicians are about to return to a hellish place. I'm warning you again, I'm inviting the entire House to carry out these 14 urgent demands. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0032par0232	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Now I'm going to make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Your Highness...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0033par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. At the risk of losing quality and quality in health care, at the cost of leaving protective health care, at the expense of first-level health care, at the expense of paying for first-level health care, at the risk of turning unfair and unfair performance systems into income-responsive treatment services, at the risk of making the health system look like health failures, Ali Menek, responsible for the shortcomings of healthcare workers, at the expense of violence, at the expense of murder, at the expense of the cost of first-level health care services, and at the expense of the victims of this system, the late doctors, Dr. Ersin Arslan, Göksel Kalajcı, Ali Menek, at the cost of the most difficult work of the world, are celebrating 14 March.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0032par0239	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0034par0242	Before I go into question, I wish the Minister would listen to us carefully and make an effort to do the necessary work on our questions, because a minister is coming, but our AKP MPs are keeping them from listening because they're keeping them busy. The demand I'd like to convey is that our Minister of Environment and Urbanism has shown itself in the district of Cheshme, after his attitude, that we can't leave the housing projects and urban transformations in İzmir for him. The projects of the 92 and 172 small-income families of our fountain municipality in 2010 have not been approved so far, while in February 2013, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which did not approve of all this, approved the TOKİ project and declared the fountain a zenith region.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0032par0245	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0035par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all health workers. This is also the Day of Salvation in the District of Hopa, Artvin. I also celebrate the 95th anniversary of the rescue of our lovely town of Artvin. As a result of the 1877-78 Ottoman-Russian War, until Kemalpaşa, including Batum, was abandoned to the Russians, and Hopa and its surroundings were tied to the banner of Rize from 1878. In 1883, after the district was formed, the First World War was occupied by the Russians on 23 February 1915. On 14 March 1918, our troops entered Hopa, bringing our town back to Turkish territory. On this occasion, the lovely town of Artvin, celebrates the 95th anniversary of the rescue of our Hopa. I send my regards, love and greetings to all my countrymen.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0036par0251	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Güyük...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0037par0254	Mr. President, from Edirne, to Kars, from Adıyaman, to Rize, to my colleagues who serve our people in the most remote parts of our country, to all the health workers I am honored to be a member of, I am very happy to celebrate the Day of Medicine. On this occasion, on March 16th, I will be reminded of the day of our Kurdish people who were slaughtered in Aleppo. The Muslim Kurdish people, an orphan of the nation, were slaughtered on 16 March in Aleppoce, where 5,000 people were slaughtered without protection. We curse those who are responsible for this massacre. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0038par0258	Thank you, Mr. Güyük. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0039par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the 14th March Medical Day of all of our doctors who have made all kinds of sacrifices for our people's health, managed to cope with the challenges from the beginning of their education to the work of their profession, who have been directly effective on human health, who have performed the most honorable and most difficult professions in the world, who deserve all the rewards and respect, and I ask God's mercy for those who die, to the pensioners and to the pensioners. He invites our colleagues in Parliament to fight together for the rights of our working physicians and of all health workers, and they celebrate the Day of Medicine, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0040par0264	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0041par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the March 14th Medical Day of all health workers. Hopefully, health problems will be heard by the government, all demands of the Union of Turkish Medicines and other compounds will be met and health problems can be resolved more quickly in this country. In addition, Mr. President, we are very happy to have the freedom of our public officials who have been kidnapped by the PKK and held hostage for years. I congratulate ourselves on the honorable conduct of our public officials, but I think that at a time when our public officials were so honorable, when terrorists showed their attitude and fearless attitude towards them by not shaking their hands, the state of the Republic of Turkey was unable to show the same dignity because our public officials were held hostage there, and there was no operation to be carried out and there was no operation to be carried out by terrorists.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0042par0272	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Star...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0043par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate you on the Day of Medicine of the doctors and health workers, who are the most respected and most demanding profession in the world, whose love, sacrifice, and patience. In the last ten years, there have been a great deal of health care for our citizens. Citizen and patient satisfaction is very high. I wish that the doctors and health workers who serve to please the citizens should also be at these high levels of satisfaction, giving greetings, love, and respect to the entire medical community.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0044par0279	Thank you, Mr. Star. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0045par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. I celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of health care staffs and our people, who have been subjected to health abuse and violence, who have been subjected to public abuse and violence, who have been removed from the public area of health, who can be examined by giving 11 pens in public hospitals, who can only be examined by giving a percentage in private hospitals, who have no money. And I'd also like to ask our Minister that the most expensive cement in Turkey has been sold in Çanakkale. I want to ask why there's a 30 percent price difference in cement in the Çanakkale region and Çanakkale, even though it's 30 percent more expensive here, and why there's a 30 percent price difference in cement, and what's the competition here doing?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0046par0286	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0047par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the 14th March Medical Day of the entire medical community. We've been informed by the press that Mr. Health Minister has brought the necessary solution to the Full-Day Law. We all know it's not a solution, it's deepening the problem a little bit, we see. Mr. Secretary, I'm condemning you for creating solutions and not solutions. Mr. Bozdağ just told me a tale of health from the stand. This story no longer puts the health worker or the citizen to sleep, and the health workers want a solution. I salute all health workers.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0048par0294	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Heartfelt...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0049par0297	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate you on the holiday of medicine with my sincerest feelings. Also, two days later, March 16th, the 25th anniversary of the Aleppoce massacre, one of the most bloody massacres in history. The period's Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and his collaborators killed 5,000 Muslim Kurds. Sadly, the so - called modern world countries have remained silent because they were Muslims. Turkey is the only country that welcomes Muslim Kurds in Iraq, and it has shown its noble stance from history, hosting those forced to emigrate for years. The woman hanged the people who slaughtered the old, childless, Kurdish Muslims on the gallows of history. I ask God's mercy to the innocent Kurdish people who were killed in Aleppoçe. Also, I would like to say to the world from here that the curse of God is on those who slaughtered Kurdish Muslims in Aleppoce. Those who remain silent in the massacres of Esed (Esed) in Syria today will be remembered tomorrow, as those who remain silent in Aleppo.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0050par0302	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0051par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0050par0305	It's full, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0051par0306	Sir, you've given me 11.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0050par0307	No, I didn't give you 11, it's up to 10, I promise Mr. Shandir as deputy leader of the group. Since a friend is dating... please.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0052par0308	Mr. President, the 11th one you gave to Mr. Friday, we're following.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0050par0309	Sir, Mr. Tamer left and spoke as the 11th in his place, that's it. I mean, what am I gonna do, guys? The man came and gave up, and the man in the 11th spoke for him in the 10th place. Now I've made a promise to the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0053par0310	I was going to celebrate the Day of Medicine.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0050par0311	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0054par0313	Thank you. Mr. President, we, as the National Movement Party Group, are deeply celebrating the Medical Day of all health workers, especially our doctors. We know he has health problems, we know he has many problems. If there is a mission to Parliament on the solution of problems, we will support the nationalist Movement Party to the end, and we demand that the government be more sensitive to this issue. We know that the most important problem for health workers is the violence they see. I also strongly condemn and condemn this violence that threatens the health of people who offer health care, and at the point of providing them with a peaceful, healthy working environment, I demand that our government take the necessary measures, respect and love for all health workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0055par0318	Thank you, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0056par0319	Mr. President, I'm a very short one for the 60th...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0055par0320	I apologize to our friends who have entered the system. We're giving it to 10 people. If the group's deputy presidents want it, we promise.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0056par0321	According to Article 60 of the Civil Code, I want a very short promise from you. According to the 60th article, to the MP, who had a very short statement...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0055par0322	Mr. Young, why do you add that you have to give it to me? I'm not giving. I didn't say that. Please sit down. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0056par0325	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the Medical Day of all health workers. The ministers of this AKP government are coming out. Bekir came out the other day, Bekir Bozdağ, and said: "We've had five closed sessions in the Turkish Grand National Assembly on terror. It's a total lie. So far Abdullah Ocalan has expressed his thoughts that AKP had been brought to power by him. Therefore, by June 16th, when there was already a June 12th election, the PKK decided not to act on its own, only to bring the AKP to power. Now we ask Recep Tayyip Erdoğan: What is his opinion on this terrorism? The thoughts of Abdullah Ocalan are all true. Let him explain his views against this, sir, we expect him to be Parliamentary. Let them come to us and tell us what they want, what they want, what they're going to do, what they're going to do, if they're going to raise the standards of democracy, they're going to have to come to this parliament and inform the AKP government.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0057par0329	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0058par0330	Mr. President, we want it the same way.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0059par0331	So do I, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0057par0332	Dear friends, if you break a rule, there's no end to it. Now, since... it's true. Here you go, Mr. Right. It's your time, too.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0060par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. I too celebrate the March 14th Medical Day of all health workers and physicians. Medicine is a sacrifice-seeking profession. Sacrifice is an eternal sacrifice. People work by adding their night to their day. Recently, however, great tribulations have been raised against the medical community. The most important of these issues is the rights of equity and especially pension. There has been a great sacrifice from the Full - Day Law. Although our retired physicians are now expecting something, they have yet to hear a voice or a word. At this point, something must be said about retirement immediately. Besides, our college professors have suffered a great deal of damage due to the full day. At the point of resolving these sacrifices, the Full - Day Law must either be changed or revised. Another issue is that all health workers, especially physicians, are subjected to violence, insults. We strongly condemn it. We also believe that measures should be taken. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0061par0341	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0062par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is Medical Day, and I congratulate you on the holiday of our medical workers, who have occasionally been violent in difficult working conditions, trying to bring people to life. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0063par0347	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0064par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Bekir Bozdağ just spoke about March 14th Medical Day, leaving the Grand National Assembly of Turkey just as questions were being raised. In this regard, I find this move against our friends here who ask questions to be wrong, and once I condemn the Minister. I too celebrate the March 14th Day of Medicine and wish the health workers the best, as they wish for many holidays, as they wish for their hearts. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0065par0354	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Finally, Mr. Sener has entered the system, please come in, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0066par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I wish that March 14th Medical Day would be good for all health workers. I also learned today that all groups have co-signed the advisory board proposal to discuss the law proposal for the military province to be a capital city today. I want to thank all the groups.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0067par0360	Thank you. Congressmans, I'd like to point out that the promise given to all our friends is a very short promise according to Article 60, which we essentially limit to 10 people. Now, I'm reading the same thing there: the president can give the member permission to speak at his place. There is no such thing as the obligation to give.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0068par0362	Mr. President, giving to certain people and not giving to others is an abuse of discretion.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0067par0363	So, friends, let's read and apply this Charter. It's important in your time and it's important in our time. Therefore, you should be familiar with this. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0068par0365	It's a fair use of discretion.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0067par0366	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Recent developments in criminal investigations have raised suspicion that government officials have produced evidence in the process of investigating. In particular, it was the authorities who claimed to produce false evidence reflected in the press over and over the cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. The answer has strengthened these doubts. The second accused of the Ergenekon case, Lieutenant Mehmet Ali Çelebi's phone, was later identified in İstanbul Police with an expert report that a member of the Hezbut Tahrir member had been loaded with 139 phone numbers, which he sent to court in a statement by the Office of Organised Crimes. It has been determined that all digital documents that constitute the basis of all evidence presented in the indictment against journalists who were arrested in the Oda TV operation were sent via virus in the report of Yıldız Technical University and Boğaziçi University experts. The report by computer engineers at Middle East Technical University stated that files obtained on the computer of Oda TV writer Muyesser Yıldız, who was arrested in the same operation, were uploaded without the knowledge of Star. In the search of Hanefi Avcı, author of the book Simons of Halic, the former police commissioner of Eskişehir, who was released before his arrest, the tapes he claimed were not his own and were later placed in the investigation file as evidence. Regarding Colonel İbrahim Sezer, the number one suspect in the military espionage investigation, it has been alleged that a Russian woman named "Vika" was not mentioned in the phone call, but was later added to police phone records. This claim was also confirmed by the prosecutor's office of investigation, and the Anti-organized Crimes Bureau has stated that the woman's name has been added to the communication detection report. Events like this have led to doubts in the investigation phases that government officials have created false evidence to create crimes and crimes by the state's hands, and there is no security of investigation. The creation of evidence by direct investigative agencies before or after investigation is one of the most important threats to the individual's rights and freedoms. The state is obliged to protect one's rights and freedoms. If evidence is produced by state bodies that possess public power, there will be no legal security for individuals who are completely powerless in the face of the state. This results in unlawful arrest, trial, and even imprisonment. Apart from the exemplary incidents mentioned above, there are numerous other allegations that false evidence was produced by state officials during the investigation. The Constitution is 138. The clause shall not be held in the legislatures for the use of judicial authority in cases in which there is a trial. In this framework, it is not possible to consider whether the concrete events we present above are real or not within the scope of Parliamentary research. In general, however, the investigation of claims to produce evidence by the state's hand, which eliminates the security of the investigation, is 138. It is imperative that parliament investigate this issue in terms of the assurance of basic rights and freedoms, not in the context of matter. In this context, as part of the allegations that evidence has been produced by state bodies of investigations, that they are being tried to create crime and guilt with the evidence produced, for investigations in our country to be investigated for the state's security of the TBMM Office 104 and 105. Article 98 of the Constitution with Articles of the Constitution. In accordance with the clause, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation. [[Aydın]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Tunceli]] 10) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On October 8th and October 12th, the occasional heavy rains caused increased water levels and floods in the Great Menderes River. After four days of rain carrying the Mendes basin, thousands of acres of cotton were flooded in Aydın. The damage was reported to be over $60 million. Recent rains have also caused the flood of the Great Menderes River. After the flood between 24 January and 26 January, Burunköy, Akçkaya, Kalcık, Nalbantler all the village's farmlands were flooded, while the cattle in Akçakaya were moved to other areas by the cattlemen who were in the stables underwater. At least 30,000 acres of farmed soil was flooded on the Plains of Cogars. As to the determination of the TBM Civil Charter 104 and 105 of the Great Menderes River, which has left our citizens a victim. Articles and 98 of the Constitution. In accordance with the clause, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation. [[Aydın]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) ) Mighty Skymen Reminder (Istanbul) [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] 14) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 15) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On October 23, 2011, hundreds of our citizens were killed by the fires in the tents established after the earthquake in Van. A total of 127 tent fires occurred on January 28, 2012, while the death of three-year-old Mustafa Atlı increased to 11. In order to investigate the recent tent fires and prevent fires, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the Constitution be opened in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Aydın]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] [[Tunceli]] 15) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] Research motions have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and I'm going to put it to your votes: Date: 14.03.2013 At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 14,03,2013, the following proposal was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Mustafa Elitaş Ali Riza Özturk Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party In the name of his group, the Vice President's Group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The 435-level Law Proposal, which was issued under pressure, was to be taken into the 4th place of the Agenda's "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" before 48 hours later, and to assess the order of other tasks according to this, The General Assembly has been recommended to continue its work until Thursday (March 14, 2013) meeting of Law Proposal 435, which is completed at 2400 p.m. if the daily programme is not completed. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat is the first speaker on the advisory board proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0069par0560	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on the Council of Counsellors' proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Under the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors, it is recommended that the law proposal for the transformation of our military province into capital city status be discussed at the General Assembly today. Basically, the proposal was signed by our CHP MPs and members of the EC PARTI (AK) in our military province and our MPs outside the Army, and if the commission report is reviewed, it is also understood that the principle is that there is no objection to the military being a capital city, but there is a technical objection to the integration of the borders with the legal structure. For this reason, I have said that the advisory council has also been united in thought, and at this point our military province, hopefully, will have a greater city status today and will have a structure that will bring more effective and efficient services to the people of the city. On the other hand, valuable lawmakers, today is March 14th, Medical Day, where really important talks have just been carried out. As an AK PARTY group, we wish all health workers the happy March 14th Day of Medicine. In our ten years of power, we have done really important health care. Of course, we may have flaws, we may have flaws. At this point, we will continue to take decisive steps to improve the quality of health care in our country, the conditions of our health workers, the working conditions, and the health system's faster, more efficient and efficient work. At this point, it is also very satisfying that our opposition has just announced that it will contribute to these studies. Because health is a matter above politics, it concerns 75 million. Hopefully, we will continue our positive service from now on. I, God willing, today, with the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors, wish the army's great-city status to the people of the army and our entire nation's nation's good-luck charms, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0070par0568	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Mr. Erdal Aksunger, MP of İzmir, is the second speaker on the advisory board proposal. Mr. Aksinger, please.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0071par0572	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. At the point where the army is a capital city, we were already signed. But, of course, I can't help but point out that it's not right to bring so many migrating places with such a jet speed, without actually putting together other problems. Let me make this clear. But I'm not going to talk about it here today. I especially want to talk about problems with the education system that's been happening lately. Friends, the world's educational system is a system that hasn't changed in 50 years or 100 years. We've had three ministers change in the last four and a half years -- I think there's three with the last minister -- and the system is almost changing every year. Let's see where the world's educational system is successful: Finland is one of the most successful countries in the world. If we think about how it got like this in the Finnish education system, from 1910 to 2005, it actually came out the same way, without any regulation. In fact, let me tell you that even though his students are trained two hours a day, three hours a day, they are said to have the best education in the world, and they are actually at the top of the ranking. So, how did these people do it? Because there's social education in there. They don't change the curriculum, whichever minister comes along like we do. They've been trying to get it right for a hundred years. In fact, let me be very clear: teachers don't have curriculums, they don't train people for two hours or three hours on any curriculum. Now, in 2010, a FATIH project emerged in Turkey as follows: Sir, we're going to give each of the children tablets, make them technological, take the training there. That's a really funny story. It's also sometimes said that a lot of countries in the world are waiting for us, that we're going to test it here, and if it's successful, they're going to do it, too. I've never seen anything like it. Who's waiting? Let the ministers explain. Is that even possible? Besides, our ministers have some weird stuff, some miraculous inventions, actually, about education. One of them is coming out, and probably three other ministers said that about the LYS and the LGS. He said, "It's one of the greatest inventions in the world." The minister who came after him said, "I've never seen such a terrible system." And friend, which one of you says it's true, which one of you will we believe? For one thing, how are you going to train the students when they're killing so many teachers? Every day you change curriculums -- every day, with the non-religious norm staff, you're actually seriously torturing the education system. Now, I'm going to give you an example, and before I come to Project FATH, I'd like to say something. In 2006, IT technology classes opened in Turkey. He's a student at the university. They've been given formalization license training around here, and teachers are being raised. You've raised tens of thousands of teachers, and since 2006, you've established 32,000 IT classes in this country, one IT class in each school with eight classes. Either friend, you've established so many classes, you've invested close to $5 billion, you've removed these classes as of last year, and you've made them electives after the 6th grade. What are these kids gonna do now? What are these grad teachers gonna do? Somebody tell them to come out. No one's interested in that? Tens of thousands of children, our teacher is waiting outside right now. Besides, the people who are going to graduate, the people who are reading right now, they don't know where they're going to work. And now you're pushing something ridiculous about the FATH Project. Now, this is actually... somebody explain what the FATHIH Project is and how it's going. I'll tell them: I'll tell them they'll do it in the first year, 2011. The infrastructure of secondary schools, high school and vocational schools would be completed and the tablet would be distributed. In the 2nd year, in 2012, the infrastructure of primary school's 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th classes was to be completed and distributed. Then, in the third year, 2013, the tablet was to be distributed to all elementary schools. How many scattered tablets? It's only 40 grand. The minister says 68,000, but I don't know how he'll prove it. That's the whole, the whole, actually, three thousandths of capacity. Either you're handing these out, but there's no man to teach them, brother. Well, that's it, you've done 32 thousand IT classes, you've spent five billion dollars, you've thrown them away, you don't want to answer to anyone, is that a thing? Now, the FATIH Project... you can't be a technological country by telling children about IT or technology, you have to produce it first. You don't know that. Now, there's going to be PARDUS because we're going to encourage the native. You said, "Well, it's a fake PARDIS because it's actually a version of Linux. You're trying to sell it to a guy with a TUBITAK. One guy was paid $5 million just to cover it up. There's no such Indian. Moreover, the Prime Minister came out two or three weeks ago, who brought in... who brought in, I don't know, who brought in the biggest software company in the world, brought in the giant of America, where they met, and they said, "Come, do software here. We can actually work with you on this FATIH project. Who are you giving this encouragement to, brother? You're going to encourage the richest man in the world instead of encouraging the locals, the local manufacturer? Let's say you did... look, we're talking to friends on the wiretap committee, with MITίle, TÜBİTAK, with police intelligence; what everyone said -- I told you last year -- is that if we don't do our local software, our operating system, the future of this country will certainly reduce national security to zero. Your zero effort. What's more, you're going to make software for the richest man in the world, and you're going to call it closed code here -- you know, intellectual friends -- and you're going to make software about what a closed code means, and you're going to give it to the children, and you're going to call it education. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. I don't really... Do you know where the world is going right now? In 2015, the last Russia, with all its native software, with Linux-based domestic software, with all its institutions, and I'll even say this: not just with public institutions, but with strategic private institutions, all of them in 2015. Germany has passed, Israel has passed long ago. Many countries of the European Union have already passed on to them. Do we have that? No, I don't. And why are you fooling people? Project PARDIS, we're going to put local software on the tablet. There's no such thing, there's no such thing. You don't have that kind of production, and you don't have that kind of staff. There's no such man when you say TUBITAK. Let them show you something like that. How much will you pay? Well, let's say that $25 billion is going to be spent, let's say $10 billion, they're going to say $8-10 billion, so let's take it. The story you're telling this guy... he'll give it to you for free. You're gonna hand over a generation for 15 years, and if he doesn't give it away for free, I'm gonna say I don't know. He's ready, he's giving it away for free, and you're handing it over to the whole country. Yeah, nobody's interested in that. It's interesting, we're tearing ourselves apart. Well, we're talking about something in the interest of this country, folks. I said they're manipulating the Prime Minister. Whoever's talking, let's get that friend out. How many times have I said that in the Commission? Are you telling this to the Prime Minister or something, or do you know something else, and we don't know that? You're handing over a generation of this country, every public institution in this country, the entire future of this country. You took the teachers, left them outside. Do you know what the I.T. classes are like, 32,000? You've invested $5 billion, they're all online cafes. Go and see...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0072par0584	Most of them don't work.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0073par0585	They deny it, they deny it.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0071par0586	I'm telling you to go check it out, so I'm telling you, it's like an Internet cafe. Where are the teachers? He's turned into a tech. I'm talking about tens of thousands of teachers. We're going to do the FATHIH Project, we're going to do this, we're going to do this... there's no such thing, it's a fantasy world. There's no training like that, and we've been saying that all along. I think you're wasting the future of the country, you're going to destroy a generation, and I'm telling you not to hand over Turkey to him. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0074par0589	Thank you, Aksinger. The third speaker on the Council proposal is Mr. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0075par0593	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Today, as a result of co-signed by the Council of Counsellors of the four groups, we are going to discuss the agenda of a proposal for a law to be made for the adoption of our military province's capital city municipality status. I believe I've been promised to discuss the proposal for a settlement of the Council for this. Not against it, we've signed each group. That's why I've been promised, and first, I salute your high council. On this occasion -- March 18, Çanakkale Day, coming to Monday -- I ask the great God to bless us as the People's Assembly of Turkey, who made Çanakkale to be impenetrable in 1915, and who have kept Çanakkale from invading our homes and imperialists, and who have laid their bodies to the ground. Dear lawmakers, it is wise to present the Parliament's work agenda, if possible, along with the joint signatures of all groups, in particular cases such compromises exist, but it is our responsibility to make this agenda the public's agenda. Today, we bring the issues of the state's agenda here under the government's responsibility, with the bill and proposals, the regulations, the laws, but we also need to bring the public's agenda here. As opposition parties, we act on this particular sensitivity, with group recommendations. Whatever matters are on the agenda, whatever problems there are, if we're benefiting from talking about that problem here, we're bringing it here as a group suggestion. Today, on this occasion, as you have seen our Mr. Home Secretary here, I would like to bring one thing to your attention: no matter the reason for the negotiations between the AKP's power or the AKP's government and the PKK, the reason for the negotiations between the government and the PKK is that the blood doesn't want to stop, the tears to stop; we all want this terrorism to end. These talks, which have been launched for this, are in a sense, taken away from the country's agenda today. I don't see it as trivial, it's important that this blood stops, whatever it needs to be done to end this terror, we say it every time as the National Movement Party, but we insist that it is possible not to negotiate, but to negotiate this blood, but to fight it. Because we all know that by negotiating, there are no results so far. We remind you from here that you have no right to create a new disappointment. In particular, if you are making these talks through sharing the sovereignty of the nation, it brings the state's institutional law to the negotiating table, which means that you have no right to make a change in the Constitution, to place this country's identity, this nation's identity on the subject, to negotiate on the negotiating table, presuming to remove its identity from the Constitution of this social contract, then you can't afford it, and that you can't afford it, and that's not legitimate. However, I think I'd like to bring to your attention a matter that has escaped all of your attention, Mr. Home Secretary, by making it possible for him to be here. If I had the chance, I'd take it to them first, but his friends -- they found the opportunity -- I couldn't take him because they kept him busy. Look, it's not in our newspapers, but it's a story that's been written all the time on PKK's websites, and I'll tell you the date, that on March 6th, on Mount Judi, Mount Gabar, in the conflict between the Turkish Armed Forces and the PKK, four of our soldiers were killed. Mr. Minister, you may not be writing about this in the press, you may be taking every precaution for the press not to write, you may be swallowing the negotiation process so that it doesn't get damaged, you may even be taking measures that we can't carry out, but while these negotiations continue, if you don't object to the martyrdom of Turkish people by the PKK in return, you have no right to do so. This news is in the Internet portals, fighting in Gabar, four soldiers lost their lives. Yesterday, Adıyaman called me from Adıyaman. Two village guards from Adıyaman were martyred by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) members in Şırnak district of Şırnak province. The people on these lists are being cornered and killed one by one. ▪ Mr. Minister, Mr. Government, I'm going to remind you of a statement from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, saying: "The PKK has made a gesture and released our people as hostages." What gesture did the PKK make in exchange for your gesture? You have to answer that. If this gesture of yours is the bloodshed of our people, you will be responsible for God's sake, and we will report you to the people. I also condemn the press that doesn't write this news. If four of our soldiers were killed on Mount Gabar, and the media didn't announce it to the Turkish people, whose media is it? Whose government is this? We're also looking for a statement from Mr. Home Secretary. I repeat: Turkey's Grand National Assembly is a Turkish nation's Assembly, a place where the Turkish nation's problems will be discussed. The government's agenda may be different; its own responsibilities may bring the laws it requires in accordance with its own programming, but we are obliged to discuss the agenda of this nation. In order for this nation's children to conduct your negotiations in good health, we must oppose it if they are martyrs. We're expecting a statement from the National Movement Party. As these negotiations continue, has the PKK entered or not, such an act of destruction, which is primarily aimed at the rangers? They have names, too, Mr. Secretary, of these rangers, the fallen rangers. Also, was he or was he not martyred by four Turkish military Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Mount Gabar on March 6th? We expect an explanation from you in this matter. I repeat: What gestures do you negotiate, what gestures do you make to the PKK, to negotiate with the PKK, who shed the blood of Turkish people, who shed the tears of mothers, who attacked Turkey in exchange for what? If in exchange for these talks, you're forcing this nation to hide PKK's massacre of Turkish people from the Turkish nation as a policy, Mr. Secretary, you're going to have to pay a little bit. We really expect a statement from you as the Parliament, as the National Movement Party, and as the Turkish nation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0076par0607	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. The last speaker on the advisory board's proposal, Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0077par0610	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. It's the first time I've ever had a joint signature of a foursome...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0078par0612	The blessings of the army...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0077par0613	Yeah. The army pioneered in this regard. I wish you luck and good luck. But here's the thing: I hope that Idris Naim Şahin will not become the mayor of the great city in the Army. If we do, we don't give away our rights. Mr. President, dear friends, it is now, in fact, an important month, March. March is, in fact, a month of bloodshed and suffering from our point of view. On the one hand, we have pain, and on the other, we have a journey towards hope. Now, March 12, 1995 is the anniversary of the Veterans incident. It's a March in which 22 of our people have lost their lives and the perpetrators still don't exist. Again, it was the anniversary of the year in Syria, when 34 innocent Kurds were killed in 2004 -- so had Assad, the father, and Assad the son -- had done it. Again, March 16, 1988 was the anniversary of the murder of 5,000 innocent Kurds by the dictator of Saddam. The massacrers have answered before the people and the law, we condemn the massacrers again, and at this point we bow before the memory of everyone who has lost their lives. Dear friends, it's March 14th; yes, it's Medical Day, it's Labor Day; we're celebrating their day. But on Monday, March 18th and March 18th, the 98th year of those who lost their lives in Çanakkale will be the anniversary of the death of the heroes who went for the common land, who laid their bodies to death in Çanakkale, and who buried themselves in the ground to leave us a homeland to never return. From here, we honor them with love. Their souls... how they went and sacrificed themselves for the common land in this geography, and their grandchildren wish that -- a peace process -- are in harmony with the spirit of this peace process... in Turkey, we all have important tasks and responsibilities in projects that will unite the brotherhood of the people. Dear friends, the return of eight of our brothers who had been in the hands of the PKK yesterday has given us hope, hope for peace, hope for the future, a great contribution to the perception of peace in society. While they're on one side, we're all happy, but unfortunately the prosecutors and judges of this country don't behave in the spirit of it. Look, on the one hand, when we're talking about peace and peace, while we're all fighting for farewell to guns, we wake up in the morning, our executives are being taken into custody by our mayor of the county, the general assembly and one of our party prosecutors. You know, when you say opposite gestures, that's not supposed to be the gesture, the gesture should be mutual. In this country, judges are the only ones who judge. They must not be judged, they must contribute to the peace process themselves. If they can offer this contribution, we can contribute to our inner peace. Despite the fact that we've been pressing charges here every day, prosecutors, judges don't do anything about killers. Look, Roboski... for 443 days, mothers have been struggling to find their children's killers, while the House Subcommittee of Human Rights publishes a report as if it were an ordinary incident. We can't forgive that, we can't cover everything in the peace process. We sincerely support the efforts of our opposing friends and thank them. Yeah, we have to go through it, we have to look into it, we can't build our future together without facing our past, and that's what we always underline. So in the past, similar events have happened, and since it wasn't done, we couldn't build our peace together. On that occasion, you're in for some important responsibilities, the ruling party. Look, for 443 days in Roboski, not a public official has been suspended, not a single military commander has been investigated, not a single person has been prosecuted. Here, there's a full legal scandal, and here, 34 innocent people have been killed. I mean, you can't simply cover it up. Here, many times, our friends have told us, so we usually know in this geography, if the perpetrator and the perpetrator are the same, the perpetrators won't be found. We've been pressing charges here dozens of times, but... look, the prosecutors are taking the politicians out of their homes in the evening. Well, we're here to press charges, 34 innocent people lost their lives. Why don't you do a procedure on these? 3,500 villages were burned down. All burners are known; their addresses are given; their uniforms are defined; their names are known; so their epaulets are defined. But there's never been a single procedure about burning down a house, about those murders, about a single soldier. In this country, 3,500 villages have been burned and 3.5 million people have been victimized at this point, but prosecutors are not doing a single transaction on them. But prosecutors can pick up and arrest students from the university, take the politicians on democratic grounds and arrest them for four years, and they can't go to trial. Now, it's my call from here to the prosecutors: if you have a conscience, if you have any faith in the law, we're filing a criminal complaint against Roboski, and why is there no investigation of all of these actors while a large part of them are still alive, from the past to the death of Kurdish businessmen, from the burning of villages to the unsolved murders? Is it only the victims you can afford? Are you only going to make peace in this country by arresting the BDP people, the left-societal factions, who are just opponents? With that understanding, there is no peace in this country. This problem is a common problem for all of you, a common problem for all of us, a crisis of conscience. If there really are steps to be taken... there will be a great hope of peace in society, that hope of peace, that politics can make it grow as soon as possible. We always say: politics is the art of solving problems, and the political world should be able to reach a compromise for that. Why can't the four political parties today have a consensus on our domestic peace? We're still talking about peace, and we're still going from village to house for 1,200 village rangers in Bingol. What kind of peace is that? Immediately after him, Bitlis, Mukh, It's true what I say, we'll get you his papers right away. It's a dead end, so the village rangers, I don't know, the law, the struggle, the life that none of us can solve, the life that we can't solve. So, we all have to change our language, we all have to change our perceptions, we have to take peaceful steps. Look, yesterday in the Vatican, the new pope was elected. White smoke came out of the church when the compromise was reached. Yeah, there's black smoke coming out of all the chimneys in this country every day. Come, in this Parliament, we too shall rise the white smoke, the symbol of peace. From all the chimneys in our country, we can replicate the white smoke, the symbol of peace, the symbol of reconciliation. We need it, society needs it, and at this point, society has a lot of support. On the contrary, the Kurds are free, the Turks are free, and all the people in this country will be free with this peace project. We will all embrace our children freely and save this country from the river of blood. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0079par0624	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Talks on the Council proposal have been completed. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the recommendation of the Council of Counsel has been accepted. Now, the Home Secretary, Mr. Muammar Guler, has requested a two-minute statement from his place. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0080par0631	Mr. President, I salute the High Council. In connection with the news published on a website, which Mr. Mehmet Shandir, Deputy Chairman of the National Movement Party, has just stated... it's not really something that I know about. I've confirmed from my friends that the news that four Turkish soldiers were killed in the conflict in Gabar is absolutely false. No such thing has happened, and we have no martyrs. Of course, our fight against terrorism will continue decisively no matter what process is on the agenda. Anti-terrorism is the government's primary duty. It is the government's duty to ensure the safety of citizens of life, property, rape, and savings. This struggle will continue with the same determination, no matter what terrorist organization is involved. I present this to the knowledge of the High Council. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit01spe0081par0635	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 78th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move to the agenda's "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with its 1st ranked First Amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and İzmir MP Alaattin Asşıyın, who are ranked in the 3rd ranking of the Electric Market Act and İstanbul MP Osman Kapaklu; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Change in the Law of Radio-Television Institutions; Ankara MP's Law on Electrical Development; Turkish Radio Television Agency's Proposal on the Development Act and Electrical Market Act; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on the Law on Alteration of Electrical Law; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Aleklu; Annotation of Electrical Law on the Law on Alteration; İstanbul MP's Law on the Law on the Law on Electricity and Economics; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin's Law on the Law; We will make an offer on the Law on the Amendment; Mustafa Sezgin Law on Electrical Law on the Law on the Law; Mustafa Sezgin's Law on Electrical Law, and the Law on Electrical Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law; İstanbul, and the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Electrical Market; Mustafa of the Law on the Law on Power Market; Mustafa of the Law on Electrics; We will also be held, and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Electric. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, the Interim Article 9 was adopted in the second part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. There's a motion on the temporary 10th article, and I'm going to read it: We propose and propose that the proposed Bill be removed from the Charter text of the Interim Article 10 of the Charter. Mehmet Ali Sesam Osman Aydın İlhan Demiröz Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Turgay Develi Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0082par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0081par0030	Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0083par0031	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we've made regarding the temporary Article 10 of Law Bill 426, which is being discussed. I salute you all. Dear friends, during the time of this amendment proposal, I'm going to address some issues concerning the irregularities of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in my constituency district, Bartin. Really, I'm having a hard time understanding the applications of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Dear friends, this is a map of the system of energy distribution in the national system of Turkey, which is connected to the Ministry of Energy. This map shows the province of Bartın as being invested in 1,100 megawatts and 1,200 megawatts of thermal power plants in Amasra district. Really, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister: Mr. Amasra, in a region where there's not a nail in it right now, you're showing how the system map for an institution that's connected to your ministry is the energy plant that's still investing here, you have to answer that. This area, which you now show as a thermal plant in Amasra, is 1/100 of what the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has done. The 1,000-mile environmental order plan shows the forest, agriculture, and day-to-day tourism area. So even though the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has rejected the application files on the thermal power plants that are thought to be established in this area and has rejected them because of these properties, although it has decided in 29/11/2010 that applications should be kept out of consideration, at a meeting at the CED General Directorate, you are showing the investment as the two thermal plants that continue in the system map of TEASI. Mr. Secretary, do you have your own authority to allow the Department of Environment and Urbanization to build a thermal power plant here? So don't worry about the institution, go ahead, I'll have you install the thermal plant here. Did you say? I'm really having trouble understanding you. You're going to say: either my friend, there, we gave the Amasra-B field. There, in Amasra, this company is producing coal, so we see that there is a thermal plant for the coal that this company is going to extract. You can say that you are in the middle of it, but in the area that you gave to the company in the face of the rejection agreement, the company has not produced a kilo of coal, even though it is now eight years later. So the protocol signed in 2005 was that it should produce 500,000 tons of coal in the first three years, and two and a half million tons of coal in the years going on, although nearly eight years later, it did not produce 13 million tons that it should have done according to protocol. In fact, where you're supposed to place a thermal power plant on these system maps, you have to break that contract by protocol, but unfortunately, you're going to continue the process there, both irregularly and unlawfully, and by breaking the law, you're going to put it on your map as if there's not yet been a nail nailed in Amasra, not yet finished, and you're going to put the application files on your application files as if they're finished with the recycled thermal plant. Really, I offer my condolences on behalf of the people of Amasra and Bart. Once again, I congratulate you on your irregularities and your unlawfulness!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0084par0039	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the temporary article 10 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Temporal item 10 accepted. There are two motions on Interim Article 11 that I'm reading: TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY We propose and propose that the declaration of the current Bill be changed to the public and private legal persons in Article 11 of the Interim Article 11. Mehmet Ali Sesam Osman Aydın İlhan Demiröz Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Turgay Develi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interim 11 of Electric Market Law Bill 426 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Özdal Threeer Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0085par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0084par0058	Read the reason, please. There are no rules on the search for resource diversity, external dependency/based resource and new and renewable properties among the issues that will be considered in the grant and taste of production licenses. This has been one of the biggest challenges in the system since then. For this reason, the substance must be removed. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY We propose and propose that the declaration of the current Bill be changed to the public and private legal persons in Article 11 of the Interim Article 11. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0086par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0084par0071	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0087par0072	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0084par0073	Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0088par0075	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the interim Article 11 of Power Market Act 426, which we are discussing. I salute your high council with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, the law has not met the expectations of the industrialist and our citizens, who are the last users, who are looking at energy, energy use, and energy use from the window of distribution companies entirely. In addition, no solution has been given to the problems of our citizens due to the practices of privatized electricity distribution companies; for example, when we briefly list the problems caused by electricity distribution companies in my electoral district of Burma: These companies are still receiving a high price of counters from our citizens because the electric meter is changed into digital counters. Even if the only electricity bill is not paid, the price is open-cut. The price is usually done without opening-cutting. Electric bills do not specify the fee taken from subscribers, but the electricity bills do not have an explanation for the price of the meter and the price of the meter. The contractors in the distribution company area are turning to jobs where it is a high profit rather than creating urgent solutions to the problems of citizens. Dear lawmakers, we say every chance we get, there's a fire in agriculture, villages, farmers can't go to coffee, village squares and mosques anymore. More and more farmers will give up planting next year due to electricity debts in the irrigation units. Mr. Secretary says no new arrangements will be made. However, private companies are now cutting the power distribution poles, which have previously removed transformers through the executive channel due to farmers' debt. It's a sign that the facilities are inoperable, and it shows what privatisation has done. In the coming years, it is evident that the rule, which enforces the hours of deep wells by law, will seize not only very quickly, but also its deep wells and clocks this time. Dear lawmakers, there are dark clouds over the cherry. In the valley of Koz, where the sun is hard to reach, they are asked to build a thermal plant in the cherry orchards. The cherry that makes the peasant's face smile is not preferred, but the 15 villages of Koz Tree Valley are being wiped off the map. I'd like to point out that the entire economy of Keles (Keles), where 23 per cent of the land's existence is damaged, is the agricultural sector. Forty-two percent of the economic yield comes from the fruit produced from the Valley of Koz tree. I remind Mr. Minister of the Koz Tree Valley, which was abandoned in 2006, back on the agenda in 2012, when he made a promise to me by Mr. Vice President Necati Özensoy: Let's see where it is. It's a subterranean comparison, so we'll act on it. If the villagers don't want it, they can't do it. They have similar expressions. It's been processed. They didn't believe the villagers, they said, "Don't move out." AKP MPs objected to their reports. The villagers came to Ankara, they were not convinced. They're standing guard in the tents at the village entrance right now. Who are these watchmen? They're keeping watch from another village? They don't want it, people don't want these facilities built. The government that promised us, the Minister who promised us, approves the tender. I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0089par0087	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary clause 11 is accepted. There's a motion on temporary matter 12, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 426 rows, is temporary 12. A year's notice in the article has been changed into six months. Mehmet Ali Sesame Haydar Akar Osman Aydın Haluk Eyidoğan Umit Özşüşük Haluk Ahmet Silver Mr. Commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0090par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0089par0101	Dear Silver, Balıkesir... Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0091par0103	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, esteemed MPs, I salute you all. Fire burns where it falls. I'm starting with a flood in our edremit district and its cities. Thousands of people, tradesmen and manufacturers have suffered losses as a result of the flood. I wish you all the best from here. Houses, workplaces, vehicles have been damaged, cattle, small animals, and bees have been destroyed. In the Gulf of Edremit, it is the sixth flood in six years, and the demands have been raised to be a disaster region in this region. The losses of housing, workplaces, producers must now be covered by the state. Unfortunately, due to the 2010 flood, the grants to the region were not paid, and were stuck with the Ministry of Finance. We are calling from here: You will surely help victims in foreign countries, but first see our citizens and immediately qualify for reforming of the creeks in the region and rethink the inadequate vents, and take the road between Edremit-Smallkuyu out of the flood and disaster. I come to the point by saying that the development of our country -- I'm talking about the 12th article -- one of the most important issues for its development and rise is the overhaul of energy policy. In particular, over the last few years, as local resources in our energy use have declined, the number and ratio of foreign resources has increased. In short, we've become more dependent on outer energy than ever before. While we needed policies to speed up and stabilize our country's development by analyzing its reasons and taking the necessary measures, we came up with this bill for the energy market, not the energy policy. Dear lawmakers, what happens when you're so outgoing in energy? What happened is that Turkey is smuggling out a significant portion of its existence, but unfortunately it's not limited to that. My dear friends, because we're so dependent on energy, electric prices fold; electricity that reaches the manufacturer at high prices reduces our industry's competitiveness. Dear friends, cheap and environmentally friendly alternatives are essential for an advanced industry, but unfortunately the government has limited its efforts to address the market's needs. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, it is clear that when we look at the overall scope of this proposed bill, public benefit is not being observed. The development of our country, the production and the increase of our industry or buying power, not for the interests of our citizens, but for the sake of this bill, which some private companies are prepared to uphold, in the event of the law, the removal of licenses from electricity production facilities, which have been revoked for various reasons. In other words, construction of some plants, which have been stopped due to environmental damage, will continue with this bill. Moreover, it is likely to encourage new facilities that may be in the same situation as they are now. How? The construction of the facility will quickly begin, and the construction will take advantage of the length of the trial processes to a certain stage, and then it will be insignificant what comes out of the court, and the facilities will be operational by completion. They have a guilty conscience. As an excuse for our country's energy needs by the government, our nature, our forests, our water will be destroyed, and the law that is wanted to be removed will be covered. Obviously, the bill is undermining the law as it is now. This is where we want to point out the need for public interest. Despite this request, destroying the natural, cultural, historical and agricultural values of a geography while producing such value as electricity would be a violation of public interest. With this bill, decisions regarding our living areas will be handed between the Ministry's two lips. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0092par0112	Thank you, Mr. Silver. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim 12th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the temporary 12th article has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 426 rows, is temporary 13. The law of the article has been added separately, before its declarations. Mehmet Ali Sesame Haydar Akar Osman Aydın Haluk Ahmet Silver Haluk Eyidoğan Ümit Özşım Mr. Commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. - We disagree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0093par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0092par0126	Dear Silver.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0094par0127	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're meeting with the Energy Market Law Bill. My dear friends, a key issue of the bill is the provision of supply security for a sustainable policy in electricity production. The geopolitical process, which is going through our world, reduces the credibility of oil and natural gas sources. This also leads to increased issues of inter-country conflict. The solution to this supply security problem requires distance from producing local resources and the ability to make those who are out of control operational. In our country, electricity production with domestic alternative energy sources that are environmentally compatible creates a very important potential. Because there's still very little production in this area. In particular, our power to produce electricity in solar, geothermal, and wind energy is far behind in developed countries. In supply of oil and gas derivative energy sources, diversification measures are insufficient. Because, according to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources data, we are still doing about 60 percent of our natural gas imports from Russia. Our supply security requires diversification of supply resources. For example, why is Turkmenistan gas still not brought in? While the government is enthusiastically involved in the Syrian issue, it should also consider the geopolitical risks associated with energy. However, the government seems to be far away from developing strategies for the country's interests in either areas of the foreign policy or Syria. Energy policies are a matter of development for our country. My dear friends, look, in thermal plants, we use natural gas from the outside at 50 percent. In all of our natural gas consumption, our industry consumes only 20 per cent, while electricity production from natural gas reaches 55 to 60 per cent. It's very difficult for an economy to develop with this data. In our industry, any activity aimed at increasing energy efficiency and producing energy from waste gases should be supported. The government, unfortunately, has come to the attention of a bill that monitors the current concerns of electricity markets, while there is a need for developmentist, public benefit, law-abiding, natural and human-friendly policies. We must quickly resolve the problems of lowering indirect costs in the future production of energy and balancing and diversification of supply-based geography. The coal used in thermal plants is one of the local resources. Moreover, with such an increase in energy prices, coal electricity has become profitable again. New filtration technologies and inventions should be expected to make this area attractive again. I think there's been a lot of speculation about coal in our country. Speculations on our local coals must be prevented and necessary measures to make coal more available. Finally, I'd like to address the issue of the latest resource supply, often referred to in the bill. This concept will force our consumer citizens or industry to buy electricity from the market at a high price, under the latest supply schedule, if it does not agree with any electricity distribution company. In this bill, setting an upper limit for the last resource supply schedule means nothing except to victimize the citizen. The data on electricity use in Turkey has begun to sound alarms because crisis data in our industry is increasing under these conditions. Electricity production has begun to fall significantly in Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0095par0135	Thank you, Mr. Silver. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary 13th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the temporary 13th article has been accepted. There are three motions on the temporary 14th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the temporary 14th draft of the current 426 rows. Article 1. In the first sentence of his joke, the phrase "except judgment" was added after the term "producing license" which started construction of the plant, but after the declaration "license license." Mehmet Ali Sesame Haydar Akar Osman Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the following sentence, added to the following joke as the third joke, and identified the other joke. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can from Nurettin Canikli "This joke does not cover hydroelectric production facilities." ==External links==If this law does not violate agricultural integrity, which has been used for the purpose of the use of agricultural facilities as part of the first joke, it is allowed to apply to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petty within a year of the publication of this law, to observe the territorial protection project to be prepared and to pay seven Turkish liras for every square meter of non-advised agricultural land. Lands removed from the quality of agricultural land are changed according to the request of the applicants of the relevant organisations." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interim 14 of Power Market Law Bill 426 currently in session. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "A new license has been granted to facilities that have been established The temporary Article 14- (1) is granted licensed by the institution within a year of the application of this substance, provided it is determined that its investment in the ministry's production facility is irreversible and that it is effective within the year of its implementation, except for hydroelectric production facilities, whose license has been revoked for any reason or halted. (2) Application owners continue their activities until further procedures, such as licenses and permits, are completed within the first joke. In the meantime, the activities of those who are unable to obtain the necessary permits will be halted until these permits are completed. (3) The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are regulated by the regulation to be issued by the Institution." Mehmet Şandir Alim Ikım Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Emin Çınar Muharrem Varlı Does the Commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. - We disagree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0096par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0095par0169	Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0097par0170	A scholar's Light...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0095par0171	Dear scholar Light, please.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0098par0172	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion that we've made in the interim Article 14 of the current Electric Market Law Bill. I hereby salute the High Council. This temporary 14th article still covers the arrangement to be given new licenses to energy production facilities, which have already been built but have been left incomplete or incomplete for any reason. This arrangement, of course, is important for the adoption of these investments, given that there are constructions going on in many parts of our country, but some of them have failed for any reason. Given a few examples, the Ministry will be able to determine whether or not the amount of investment should be completed or if it has reached an irreversible point, and we should be able to agree. However, in the event that this covers all production facilities, we have made this motion, especially because of the concern that many hydropower plants, including small amounts of investments, would be included in this coverage. At least with hydroelectric production plants, what's happening in this situation, let's keep it out of the picture, and we think it would be appropriate to bring investments to a certain point in the country's economy, which has started in other plants that require greater investments. However, it would be appropriate for hydroelectric production facilities to be kept out of the scope. At least we're relieved that the ruling party has a motion similar to that, even though the government did not agree with our motion, this arrangement is needed. I believe in the next motion, which will be done correctly. I therefore request that the High Council be supported by you worthy members, even though the government did not agree with our motion. Other issues have been discussed, but once again, I'd like to make a statement to the government. In particular, some of the investments that TEİASI should make, investors who take on infrastructure investments with the idea that they shouldn't be delayed are spending a lot of money, and there is a huge problem with its collection by TEASI. People who have spent billions of pounds will get their money back in ten years, but the cost of money will be considered zero -- or near zero -- by ignoring the application of interest. This needs to be corrected, and given how much that investor has invested at least, I'm once again announcing to the government that an arrangement that won't hurt the investor should be brought to an emergency, because there are serious casualties on this issue, and after that, it's only a dream to expect these investors to make such investments. Because I'll pay you back with the lowest cost, and I'll pay you back when I'm paying you back, and I'll pay you back with interest. So, once again, I remind you that the government needs to solve the problem, and I offer my regards by waiting for your support in our motion.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0099par0178	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the following sentence, added to the following joke as the third joke, and identified the other joke. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "This joke does not cover hydroelectric production facilities." ==External links==If this law does not violate agricultural integrity, which has been used for the purpose of the use of agricultural facilities as part of the first joke, it is allowed to apply to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petty within a year of the publication of this law, to observe the territorial protection project to be prepared and to pay seven Turkish liras for every square meter of non-advised agricultural land. Lands removed from the quality of agricultural land are changed according to the request of the applicants of the relevant organisations." Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We leave it to appreciation, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0100par0189	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0101par0190	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0099par0191	Let's get him to read the motive. The regulation of the first joke aims to remove hydroelectric production facilities from the matter. The third joke aims to bring investments into the economy and provide public benefit in agricultural land, which is now under way for electricity production. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the temporary 14th draft of the current 426 rows. Article 1. In the first sentence of his joke, the phrase "except judgment" was added after the term "producing license" which started construction of the plant, but after the declaration "license license." Haydar Akar and his friends Does the commission agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0102par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0099par0204	Mr. Ozgimi, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0103par0206	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. Speaking from each party since the EPDK law arrived, lawmakers from the opposition, or rather speaking from the opposition, said the law was rushed and brought in carelessly. I told you last night. The best example of this is that we've been talking about the law for days, and there's still a proposal from the government or the ruling wing, which is half an hour away from the end of the law, and we're still being asked to correct the law. All of this was supposed to be done on commissions earlier, and in fact, during the draft period, they were supposed to be brought to Parliament in an orderly manner. My dear friends, why is this law rushed so quickly? I'd like to share with you a story I shared with my friends on the commission: security guards at the Mexican border see a man cross the border once or twice a week on a motorcycle and there are only two sandbags behind it. After a few passes, they carefully examine the sandbag, nothing, sand. A few more passes. This time they're using a detector to see if there's anything hidden inside, and there's nothing. Time passes, and some smart customs officials say: "There must be a chemical like drugs being absorbed into this sand, they're smuggling it. They're sending the sand to the lab, it's clean. It's been going on for months. Years go by, and after the customs officer retires, he meets this guy in a coffeehouse, he says: "It's been years, and I've retired, and you've quit, but I can't sleep at night. What were you really missing? While you were constantly studying the sand, examining the sand, I was taking the old motorcycle and bringing a new one. Now, in this EPDK law, the 14th article, which I'm talking about, which is the 14th article, which is wanted to be kidnapped in so many articles. In a nutshell, he says that he began building a plant on the basis of a valid production license before the adoption of this Law, but this is very important: for those whose class has been cancelled for any reason, the ministry's production facility investment will be given a new license on condition of public benefit. Dear friends, this is the most flawed, most flawed, the worst clause of this law, which is wanted to be kidnapped, which is wrong, but it's wrong. Now, I mentioned the Merton theory here last night. If the law goes like this, Merton and his friends say: "Addition becomes a facilitator that opens the system." So if you leave the law as a point of no return, then there is no criteria. What is the point of no return? Is it 20 percent of the investment, or 40, or 60, or 80, or 90? What, though, is the public benefit? I mean, at what stage is there a public benefit here, and who's going to decide? The ministry's bureaucrats will decide, and in order to make this decision, those investments, the companies whose license has been revoked, will be bribed to facilitate the system, and unfortunately, Merton's theory will be justified. Now, here, at the same time, there's an intervention in the law. Dear friends, look, the former Article 11 of the EPDK Act, the 16th article of our new law, has brought sanctions concerning the cancellation of licenses. Among them are companies who are cheating against the law, offering false documents. So the law says: "If you have come with false documents, if you have cheated against the law, I will cancel your license." Now, as a lawmaker, what we say is that if they come to us, we'll give them a new license, including the companies that cheated against the law, for whatever reason, to the manufacturing facilities whose license has been revoked, if they come to us. So it's a direct intervention in the judiciary. Dear friends, of course, there were streams here that, for whatever reason, broke the ecological balance, didn't plan the basin, which, fortunately, didn't cover the power hydroelectric production facilities, at least some of the damage had been repaired, but the law here has been severely injured, law is interfering with the judiciary. The motion we made here was beyond judgment. So if there were firms that had cheated against him against the law, provided false documents, and had been revoked by a court order, they would be excluded. Again, we stand by this proposal. We think his acceptance is a significant lack of acceptance and will remove the wound. I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0104par0217	Thank you, Mr. Ozgimi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the temporary 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are granted the 14th Amendment. There are three motions on the temporary article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the title of the statement "Atl hydropower plants" to the Interim 15th Article of Electric Market Act 426 which is currently in session. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Yilmaz Tunç Ahmet Haldun Erturk İsmail Aydın Mustafa Hamarat Mustafa Atash Mehmet Erdoğan Hakan Çağoğlu Your current bill is temporary 15. We offer and propose that the six months of the article be changed to one year. Mehmet Ali Sesame Haydar Akar Osman Aydın Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya İlhan Demiröz Turgay Develi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the interim 15th article of Electric Market Law Bill 426 is removed from the draft text. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Halaman Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0105par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0104par0247	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0106par0248	Mr Muharrem Varli will speak.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0104par0249	Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0107par0251	Mr. President, I have been promised our motion on the interim 15th amendment of the bill. I salute you all. I'm an Adana MP, and an energy sector has been created in Ceyhan. It's been planned to set up an energy reserve on about 13 million square meters, but so far... we're going to make Ceyhan the world's Rotterdam in every environment for about ten years, we're going to make it an energy zone. All the energy will move from here to Europe, and there will be huge business opportunities, and there will be huge facilities. Now, again, here, you're saying that you're going to build five coal-powered thermal plants in what's described as the energy zone. Now, why the coal power plant? This area is a first-class farmland, in the ovary district, where the most quality drinking water is -- the area that covers the drinking water of many villages in that region -- but you say you're going to build a coal-powered thermal plant there. I mean, you can't imagine what you're doing. Now, if these coal-powered plants work well for the first few years, maybe it won't harm nature, the environment there, but when the filter system fails, they usually avoid it because it costs a lot of money to change it, so it makes agricultural areas in that region almost disappear. So to the area of the first-class olive groves, first-class orchards, and the top-quality agricultural fields, where there's the finest drinking water, here are the valuable district lawmakers who recognize that area, you all know the Burnaz water. So the drinking water of the ovaries, sir, covers the drinking of many villages there. Now, how do you expect to cover the drinking water in those areas if this basewater, drinking water gets dirty? What do you think you're going to do if he destroys the farms there tomorrow? But when you're gone, sir, there'll be beautiful facilities here. There'll be petrochemistry facilities. Where's the petrochemistry facilities? You're talking about building the coal plant. Now, again, there's an offer of a change at the String Group, 1/100. He made an offer on a map of 000 ▪ in the ovarian region to turn the agricultural area into an industrial area. This came to the City General Assembly in the Special Administration, where the members of our County General Assembly rejected it first, and then the AKP politicians there went out screaming in the newspapers, there, there, there, there, 10,000 workers will work here, blocking it. Why do you let him stop you? They provoked people every day. E, okay, then he came back, and the members of the LLC voted, 1/100. The agricultural area has been transformed into an industrial area on a map of 5,000. It was done just for unemployment purposes, but so far, you haven't nailed a nail in there, there's nothing! Your whole policy is to deceive people. What the hell? I mean, where's 10,000 workers? Where are the Plumber Group's facilities, their investments? There's nothing, but when it comes down to it, it's like the Seven-Eyes Dam. It's been coming for over two years. We'll water your land for two years. So you put people to sleep, and there's still no more water coming, no more facilities being built in the energy field. And you prevented those who wished to do so. By the way, in that beautiful area, the Forest District Department has been working beautifully, and for nearly 20 years, there have been huge pine trees, and now you're giving them to the quarry, and the quarry will destroy that forest. Again, the charming drinking water of those regions comes from that mountain, that mountain will be destroyed. Like a boat, like Azizli, like Hamdilli, there's a problem of a quarry that concerns seven of our villages. Please let the government come up with a solution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0108par0260	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Your current bill is temporary 15. We offer and propose that the six months of the article be changed to one year. Osman Aydın (Adın) and his friends Mr. Commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We do not agree. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0109par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0108par0270	Mr. Yalcinkaya, let them come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0110par0272	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we have made regarding the interim Article 15 of Law Bill 426, which is being discussed. I salute you all. Dear friends, in my earlier speech, I spoke of the practices of the Department of Energy, which are unrecognizable and unrecognizable. Gene, I'm also going to inform you of an irregular behavior that concerns the Ministry in my own constituency. Dear friends, the Turkish Stone Coal institution, as we all know, is an institution that produces only one stone coal in Turkey. An institution of five establishments, the Amasra House Directorate, is also part of Bartin's province. The area of this administration, called the area "B," is rented to a company in the form of redevans. According to the redevance agreement protocol, this firm is taking over the field in 2005, and since it has taken over the field, it needs to produce and extract the coal it has committed to in the past year. The company, which was given the space space in 2005, 2006 and 2007, was supposed to finish its preparations and extract 500,000 tons of coal in 2008, but when it came to extoling coal in 2008, it immediately requested an extension for a period of 17 months, which was considered appropriate by the General Manager. After which, 17 months later, the company, which was supposed to extract the coal again, again offered various excuses and asked for a further extension. The extension was granted again for 17 months, according to the General Manager's office. After 17 months, after three and a half years, the firm again asked for a nine-month extension. This was also approved by the General Directorship, and the company has not produced a kilo of coal in Amasra, for nearly eight and a half years. Last time, the company's proposal for the 4th time extension was rejected by the TTK General Directorate, and it was notified that the year of production had begun. According to this, the company was supposed to deposit 500,000 tonnes of coal into the VAT and the redevance into the TTK institution's account by February 24th, but unfortunately, as of February 24th, the company did not deposit the redevans price into the institution's account. The General Manager, who extended this much time to the same firm, unfortunately, is currently working at that private firm as an energy consultant. I've given Mr. Secretary a few questions about this, and every question I've given him has not been answered properly, and what have you done with the General Manager? Is there an investigation or not? There was no answer about that either. The General Manager is currently working as an energy consultant at that company. In fact, this general manager, who retired on 11/1/2011, is not supposed to work in this company, which has a cognitive relationship with the institution, but unfortunately, the Department of Energy is working, and despite the fact that we've filed criminal charges against them, he ignores it and protects the firm and doesn't open an investigation into the General Manager. Here, I just said in my speech, a ministry that includes an energy distribution map of TEASK to a thermal power plant that has no investment yet, and in the same way, a ministry that doesn't mind serving in a private company that is currently in cognitive relations, even though it is not two years after its General Manager is retired. I'm really hard to understand. Minister, are you involved in the same civil relations as that firm? You are the Minister of Kayseri, and that company is Kayseri. Or are you in solidarity? Is that why you're protecting him, is that why you're looking out for him, to tolerate these irregularities and irregularities, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0111par0280	I'd like to make a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0110par0281	I mean, really, Bartin and the people of Amasra are very upset about your insensitivity about this, and I really think that when the election comes, you're going to have to answer for your insensitivity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0112par0284	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Minister has a request for an explanation. Here you go. Your position, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0113par0289	Mr. President, dear friends, in the last speech of our congressman, in his previous speech, we don't have to know everything here, we don't have to understand everything, but we're going to ask each other about things we don't understand, we're going to ask their authorities. I didn't just answer to offend our friend, but I don't think we should be in such ridiculous situations. I took your word for it after your second promise. Look, guys, just now, you're showing the plant on a map like this. This is our map of the operating and connecting views of TEIAS. We don't share it with the public. We have a power plant here, not there. Here are preparations not only for Bartin's 80 thousand megawatts, but for all of Turkey's plants, which were licensed by 2023. Now, the private sector has applied to a second power plant in Çalmazı, 1,310 megawatts. The transmission line will be finished in 34 months. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna show the power plant here in 34 months and then make the transmission line in three days. We're planning these things, we've got a map of planning, and everyone is preparing themselves -- all institutions, connected, related, and related -- 28 general managers -- according to this. You get up -- very funnyly -- you show the plant here, and then you say, "Why is he doing this?"
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0114par0294	Mr. Secretary, what's so funny?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0115par0295	What's funny, what's funny? You put it here as an ongoing thermal plant.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0113par0296	Guys, I'm sorry, but if you don't know, you'll find out. And when I talk like that, you say...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0115par0297	What's so funny?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0113par0298	Look, I'm especially holding back so I don't talk. And when I talk to you, you say, "Ya, we were wondering, so we asked. That's not how curiosity works, fellas. The curious one says that you have shown this on such a map. What do you mean? Or are you mistaken?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0116par0300	Why has there been an extension for four years?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0113par0301	I'm showing you the map now. It's not only in Bartin's system, it's not only in Zonguldak, it's the preparation of the plants that we're going to build from Edirne to Kars, from Sinop to Hatay. Now, Mr. President... Well, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0117par0304	Thank you, Minister. I'm reading the final motion, sir...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0118par0306	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has spoken some words that lead to the call of "unknowledged" and, therefore, harsh words. I need two minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0119par0307	I didn't say that, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0120par0308	He spoke harsh words.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0119par0309	Mr. President, I didn't mean anything.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0121par0310	All right, sit down. (CHP rows) Sir, sit down... please sit down...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0122par0311	How do you say "funny" to people who ask questions here?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0121par0312	Mr. Acar, what's happening to you? Sit down. I haven't said anything yet. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0123par0316	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm really not used to your attitude and your tone. You're accusing us of ignorance about you, about your ministry, about everything that's been brought to you by our MPs, and you're really, really, you're in a position like that, like, you're not getting it. Minister, you now represent the Amasra - 1,100 megawatts - and Bartin's Termik Operator - 1,200 megawatts - as ongoing plants in the system map of TEİAS. And I'm saying, right now, there's no thermal power plant in Amasra that's been authorized to build. 1/100. In its 1,000-mile environmental order plan, it says that the fields of agriculture and forest are built in Filyos Valley, where they will be built for coal, because it appears to be a tourist site. Why don't you put it there, Mr. Minister, and you put the ongoing thermal power plants in Amasra? So, you're saying to someone, "We're institutionally building, we're putting the lines of communication into the system map, you keep doing it, you'll get your permission." Aren't you planning wrong?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0124par0319	It's not wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0123par0320	You're planning it wrong. You're putting up a thermal plant that doesn't exist. Don't, don't, Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0124par0321	Let go, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0123par0322	I mean, it's not the allegations, it's the question, you don't answer.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0124par0323	I'll explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0123par0324	How does the director of TTK not two years later go and work in that private sector of yours? How does he operate in a company with communicable relationships, Director General? Why didn't you investigate them?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0124par0326	Come look, come look at the map.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0125par0327	Mr. Yalcinkaya, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0126par0328	Mr. President, I'm sorry, let me make a little statement. There's a law 2531 that mentions a restraining order. A public servant cannot serve for three years in a sector that he oversees or manages. For him, he can't be in an institution where the director of Turkey's Stone Coal Foundation has given him permission to invest, and he hasn't cancelled his contract in four years, even though this investment hasn't started. The Minister of Energy has a duty to supervise. What he has to do is open an investigation into the ban on taking office against his staff, not accuse us of ignorance. This is information given to him, and we invite the Minister to correct his style against courtesy and our party. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0127par0331	Thank you, it's contained. [[Continue]] I'm having the final motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the title of the statement "Atl hydropower plants" to the Interim 15th Article of Electric Market Act 426 which is currently in session. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We leave it to appreciation, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0128par0344	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0127par0345	I'm reading the reason: The title is added to the item. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 15: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are four motions on the interim item 16, two of which are the same property, and I'm going to read it: A Temporal 16 of the current bill. We offer and offer to change the terms of the terms of the entity to ▪ Two years by the entity. Mehmet Ali Sesam Osman Aydın İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the continuing work and transactions shall be added as a matterhead to article 16 of the current Electric Market Law Bill, which is currently in session. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Şay alpay Ahmet Tofik Long İdris Şahin Osman Caffeci Nihat Zeybekci Hakan Hallelujah Tülay Selamoğlu Ayşenur İslam Sevde Bayazıt İçar Gülay Samancı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Interim 16 of the Power Market Law Bill, 426 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Özdal Threeer Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Şandir Alim Ikım Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Erdoğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Do you agree with the two motions of the same nature, Mr. Commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0129par0385	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0127par0386	I'm reading the reason: Water rights agreements, energy production licenses and river-type HES (hydroelectric power plant) and dams, rip water out of the creek bed, arrest it from nature, destroy its living spaces. We need to approach HES in the context of energy policies, and we need to stay completely out of energy policies and look at them as a nature-protection struggle. Current policies serve the purpose of destroying more nature than eliminating the energy deficit. For these reasons, the substance must be removed. Mr. Chancer, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0130par0393	Mr. President, we have reached the end of the law concerning the establishment of a very important law that concerns 76 million of our people. I wish the law to be a blessing, a blessing, and thanks to those who have done their best to prepare the blood. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have been promised to remind you of something. You know, in today's world, the definition of development and growth criteria has changed. Now, growth is no longer measured by the increase in the GDP. It's no longer measured by growth, such as infrastructure investments, reserves in the Central Bank. Development began to be measured by other values. At the beginning of these values, the environment comes, the environmental sensitivity comes. A society and a country, the more sensitive it is to environment, nature, nature, the more it develops law to protect it, the more it institutionalizes it, the more developed it becomes a civilized country. There are other values, and I'm not going in there to keep it short and short. Now, I'm afraid the most destructive sector against the environment is the energy sector. The energy sector is very important, very valuable. We need energy. To achieve energy, everything must be done, every precaution must be taken, but we cannot win nature. Without energy, we're in a very difficult position, but without nature, if we destroy nature... we've lost a home, you know, we've taken refuge here. So as I passed the law of the energy sector, while Mr. Secretary in charge of the energy sector was here -- what you've brought in here in the interim Article 8 is really a matter of suicide -- valuable friends -- I've made a promise to bring to your attention the valued MPs. Look, what you're saying is that until 2021, electricity production can't be halted, administrative fines can't be imposed in order to ensure investments in the harmonisation of electricity production facilities into environmental legislation, and to complete the necessary permits for environmental legislation. So, you're saying that electricity production facilities are unstoppable, untamable, about lack of environmental legislation, about mistakes. Mr. Energy Department understands the best bureaucracy, Mr. Secretary understands, and you know it. Dear friends, we're constantly complaining about thermal power plants that are polluting the environment. So I complained here, Mr. Minister. He said, "I'll look into it." However, no justification for the establishment of two thermal plants in Silifke district of Mersin, the pearl of the Mediterranean. First of all, I want to say this. This is a wrong arrangement. This arrangement will reset and reduce Turkey's position in the civilized world. No matter how big you grow, no matter how much money you have, if you're not environmentally sensitive, they won't accept you as civilized. I want you to know that. The second thing I'm going to say is, Mr. Secretary, you're making a law, you're solving some people's problems with it; I'm not saying anything. You create so many problems with some of the regulations that the state has caused, that we are disgraced in the international community. That's how you solve a problem in Samsun with the last arrangement you agreed to. Why don't you solve the citizen's problem, Mr. Secretary? Oh, please, for God's sake, shouldn't you be ashamed of the taxes you've received on electricity from a squatter who's living on minimum wage? Whoever has the money, I'm not saying anything, but is it fair to say that at least 50 percent of the amount of electricity he uses is more than 40 percent of the amount of taxes? This is wrong. We're making a legal arrangement, and it's important to be fair in this legal arrangement. Another thing: won't you ever discriminate against the electricity used in irrigation? Electric energy used in manufacturing is the most expensive energy in the world. Aren't you going to make any arrangements about this? You make a law, your law may solve some problems, but it doesn't solve society's problems. We wish good luck to this law that we contribute, that we work on, that we negotiate on, but it doesn't solve problems, Mr. Secretary. As a result, you've been running this country for ten years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You've been bragging for ten years, but you're bragging about how your people don't solve problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0131par0404	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions have been rejected. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; We propose and propose that the contract of employment and transactions which continue to be added to Article 16 of Power Market Act 426, which is currently in session. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Mr. Commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. - We'll leave it to appreciation, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0132par0413	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0133par0414	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0131par0415	I'm reading the reason: The title of matter is added to the temporary 16th article. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. A Temporal 16 of the current bill. We offer and offer to change the terms of the terms of the entity to ▪ Two years by the entity. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Mr. Commission? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. - We disagree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0134par0426	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0131par0427	Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0135par0429	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, I have an invitation to Mr. Secretary, about this Arhavi Kamilet Valley, we'll travel that valley together. There's a destruction created by hydroelectric plants. Again, in front of the High Council, Mr. Secretary, we defeat you. Hopefully, together, you'll see that murder in Kamilet Valley and stop the HES work there, the hydropower plant work. Mr. Secretary, wherever you are, I will speak of Cerattepe. I promised. I'm going to discuss another dimension of Cerattepe. A mine is being mined in Artvin. There's a mine murder in Artvin, dear friends. In the speech I gave about this last week, I was saying: "God willing, there are judges in Rize, judges make positive decisions. " But I was wrong, and I was wrong, unfortunately, I was wrong. Despite the earlier decision of the Rize Administration Court, the mine should not be mined here in 2008. The Rize Administration Court has made a different decision in the past week, despite the same decision, which is the same as its subject, its purpose, its shape, its shape, its sides are the same as the Ministry of Energy. In the statement I've made here, I'd like to share this with Mr. Secretary here on the terms of the tender. I said, Mr. Minister, that this contract condition describes one firm. There were provisions in the terms of the tender, which said: "The company that can enter this tender must have a facility in Turkey, which will produce 10,000 tons of metal copper per year." I was saying: "This only describes one company, Turkey." I said, "It's about this -- my wife is notary -- I'm going to go, I'm going, I'm going to get the notary to identify which firm." I said, "What company does she describe?" I asked the Minister in writing: How many facilities produce 10,000 tons of metal copper in Turkey? Friends, there's a facility in Samsun. There's a facility. I said, "I'm going to make a note of it." I said, "I'm going to ask which company to buy it." I can't make that determination according to the Notary Act outside the firm that I predicted. There's snow in the ears about this, and with the movement of another firm, Mr. Secretary said I was wrong where I was, too. Now, Mr. Minister, at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, at the temple of this Ataturk. Now, that firm didn't take this contract, the other firm did. That's what you're saying, according to the official record here. You know that firm and the other firm have partnerships elsewhere, right? I don't want to say your name in Adana, and in other cities. Now, I'm telling you from here, where does this company run this mine? Where will this company run this mine? Well, since you're right, I was wrong as a congressman. If you're right, I'll apologize to all Turkey and Artvin in this Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Where will this company operate? I'll give you a vision. I don't know what you're going to say, you're going to say, "It's none of our business, we've done what's necessary as a state, he's taken the contract, wherever it works. There's one company, Mr. Minister, there's one company. He's not going to come and work at my house, and he's not going to work at yours. What's he gonna do with it? Samsun will work at the same time. So there's something else involved. My dear friends, I'm trying to make a point. My fellow members of the AKP Group, look, there's a very serious smell of this tender, there's a serious process. This tender was describing one firm, and at this point, when it was so ambitious, the other partner took it, the company's other partner. I don't want to go into partners here. I can't be wrong, we can't be wrong. A murder is being committed at the top of Artvin. At the top of Artvin, our brains are being raped. I mean, I don't want to come up here and have some kind of intervention, and I don't want to give a speech so that the Artvins like it. At the top of Artvin, there's a mining disaster, a mining murder that we stopped in 2008, come see with your eyes, if you say there's a mine mine here. If you say there's a God, I'm not saying anything, I say: let's get it out together. All the political parties in Artvin, including the president of the AKP, all the groups we signed together, we said: "There is a murder going on here, and if you do this, Artvin is a city with 60 percent, 70 percent slopes, you will destroy this city. We tried to tell you, we came to your presence, and you told us that we would take care of the values of Arvin, those above Artvin, those who live under Artvin, those who live under Artvin, and those who live under Artvin, and I didn't say that you'd fix it a little bit later. I don't think that't say that. And I'm asking you, how much did you put on us? How much did you give us, how much are the Artvins worth? Is that possible, Minister? That's what I'm trying to tell you. Please, when you come to investigate the Kamilet Valley Valley about Arhavi -- I sincerely believe you will keep your promise -- this MP who has been asked to commit the murder of the mine at Cerattepe, on the top of Artvin, has spoken ten times, twenty times in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, please come and see it too. I said: "There are all conditions for tampering with the contract, where there is an independent judiciary and an independent judiciary, there is this actual painting. I'm trying to explain it. We'll see about that in the next few days. Hopefully, I'll get back on this stand, and we'll do everything we can to keep him in the coming years, and I'll tell you that. We're going to do everything, we're going to do everything in the dimension that you don't expect, but despite all of this, I don't know if you'll be in that chair if they start to dig this mine up in Samsun, like I predicted, but what are you going to tell me, I'm waiting to hear it, my dear friends. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0136par0442	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes, along with the motion adopted by the temporary article 16: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 32 that I'm reading: In Article 32 of the proposed bill, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed at the date of the release of the decree. Mehmet Ali Sesam Osman Aydın İlhan Demiröz Haydar Akar Turgay Develi Muharrem Light Is the commission in? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, ENERGY, EMPLOYEMENTS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION - We disagree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0137par0455	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0136par0456	Mr. Tarhan, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0138par0457	Mr. Light will speak, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0136par0458	Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0139par0460	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to make a speech on the executive clause, which is exactly what I'm going to do. I salute you all. Before I start my speech, Mr. Canicli, let me tell you so you don't get tired. If there's a document here after every conversation, go out and talk about it. I'm afraid it doesn't work like that. If that's what the court has decided, then what should we do? Of course, it doesn't work like that. We don't trust him because there are no independent justices left in the country, plus we don't trust him because so far there are no AKP cases. Of course, when we say "corruption," it does not necessarily mean taking, taking, and taking, but it is also corruption to give the people the rights of an orphan who has not yet done so. Just as the sugar mills were told to go cheap when they were privatized, as the Prime Minister canceled it... it was corruption, if he had left. Now and in the practices that have been done here, so have many of them. You object when we bring it in. Now, what's corruption? The Turkish Language Agency says: "One task, one abuse of authority." The World Bank says: (The use of public power for private gain.) The United Nations says: ▪ Corruption and corruption in the decision-making mechanisms of public and private institutions. What is Peskeg? The Turkish Language Foundation also says: "For free or for far less than the value of a property, it is inappropriate to give it to someone." Now, when the richest ones were announced recently, we read something: "Turkey has two of the richest in Europe, but it also has the richest poor in Europe." Erzincan, for example -- I'll tell you about justice -- there are two municipalities that apply to the authorities, one of the municipalities accepts applications in half an hour, another municipality -- has extended 15 days, plus one day, but when a citizen complains to the governorship, there is no need to investigate the municipality of the AKPP. That's your judgment. Of course, I'm not going to talk about Kütahya Sugar, or the Tekel factory in Bitlis, Istanbul, or the Liquor Factory in Istanbul, not the stock market, not the metrobus, not the KİT Commission. What concerns me here is the privatisation of Aras EDAŞ. You know, when Aras EDAŞ was privatized, 10 companies applied, then there were 7 companies left, and 5 of the 7 companies withdrew, and the two remaining companies entered the race. One company pays $49,600,000 -- Killer Group -- and Ashmale Cement gives $15,158,000. So when you look at the way it was delivered in the first place, there's something. Then he comes around. Of course, the next call is sold for 108 million,500,000 U.S. dollars. It only goes up to 128 thousand after the value assessment, up $500,000; it's already given to him. 13th District Attorney's office. His apartment is disrupting it, but whatever it is, whether it's health-related or other laws, whatever it is, all the decisions the DA's office has broken, the Admin Offices are breaking the opposite, the government is taking sides. He did the same thing here, and he made a statement under it, saying that the missing fugitive rate here is 29 percent, so that's a lot of money because it's damaged. Once again, there was this tender before the competition board ever formed. This is a large area where Erzurum, Erzincan, Bayburt, Ağrı, Kars, Ardahan, Igdir joins. Of course, while it's being done here, the interesting thing is that no one from the Kiler Group is going to talks in Erzurum, and no one from the Striking Group President Ahmet Çuk is going. He conducts the negotiations there himself, and there are studies that should be taken. Of course, when we call it the Catastrophe Group, you get angry immediately, but we also know what they're hearing about it. Mr. Secretary has made a statement saying that the missing fugitive rate has dropped to 7.5 per cent. Congratulating themselves. So when he buys it, he will bring down 29 percent there, and he will make a good profit there. Likewise, when you meet union officials there and all that stuff, it's said to be sold for at least three times the value, and it's sold for this price. Now, when we look at the profits that were brought there and look at the cancellation of the sugar factory, we have questions in our heads when we look at the canceling of the highways. Moreover, after the court has issued the verdict, the Privatisation Board immediately publishes it before it goes to trial and formalises it. So, of course, what we think about this is that if the sugar factory is being canceled when it's privatized, when it's cheap, when the highways are cheap when it's privatized, but if it's not canceled -- even though it's so cheap -- then you have to suspect the areas. We think they're being treated according to the people who took it. We'd like to work on this as soon as possible and have this returned by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0140par0473	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 32 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 33: This is the 33rd amendment to the 426th amendment. shall be replaced as the (Energy Minister) of Education (Energy Minister). Kamer Young Muharrem Light Ugur Flagtutan Does the commission agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, COLOR OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ENERGY OF THE ENERGY, THE RESPONSIBILITY, THE INFORMATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TEKNOLOGY. We do not agree. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0141par0486	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0140par0487	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0489	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 33 of Bill 426. My respects to all of you. Now, my dear friends, of course, look at every law the AKP has brought forward, surely there is a pardon. Here, here, the license is revoked, and the license brings pardons to those who have been revoked; they've got zoning structures, they've got pardons. I mean, of course, here's a special part of the AKP... so it's always your job to forgive the lawless? Don't you ever do a decent job? Yeah, you really get a little bored.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0143par0492	People have voted for the one who's done the right job so far. Don't insult people!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0493	Now, Taner Yildiz, who sat during this government, speaks of this place the other day, saying, "Sir, I pay tribute to those who have the right level. " Now, look, fellas, the Department of Energy, where we're negotiating the law, where the biggest robberies are corruption. Look, I'll give you an example or two. Now, look, Canicli, 417 trillion-dollar electricity transmission...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0144par0495	How did you figure it out?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0496	...417 trillion liras of work from 2003 to 2010, which is tender-free at the time of the Ministry. Look, it's tender free. Sure, sure, without bidding. After that, there's a law being passed in 2008. Sir, there is a legitimacy in these free-for-charge jobs. Now, they say: "We've given without contract, but we've priced it on minimum bids." So, what's the minimum contract condition? I mean, can we, guys? I don't know, is the electric transmission line of Rize, which is drawn to the mountain of Tunceli, equal to, I don't know, the power transmission line from the Plain of Conium? The actual cost of the 85 trillion accounts at this time is 20 trillion liras. There is a report coming in, they send an inspector to investigate. They're suspending the inspector, the head of the Department of Energy and Natural Resources, they're appointing an inspector in their own way, and he's leaving, sir, there's no irregularities here.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0145par0498	They pay for 20 million, but not 80 million.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0499	No, no, I mean, in this 417 trillion, 85 trillion Boyabats...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0145par0500	Here, the Minister will answer.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0501	Anyway, you're not the minister, you're the minister, then answer me.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0145par0502	The Minister will answer, come out, talk, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0503	Now, we asked him, look, we asked him here. Gifts were received about him as Kayseri and his neighborhood Electric left Turkish Anonymous. Yeah, there's this world, there's the next. So give us your account in this world, and we will surely meet you in the Hereafter.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0146par0504	Hopefully, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0505	Will you be in heaven or hell? Wherever we meet. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, he said that there are 21 distribution companies. How many distributors in these 21 distribution companies didn't pay their dues on time? Tell me the names of these. What did you do? Sir, I mean, he's being brought to the mouthwash, he hasn't responded, the reports are here. Now, look, last year, electricity price, consumer prices were raised by 32 percent, natural gas was made by 37 percent, but do you know what was done to TETASH's price of electricity? 14.8% of the time. The cost of four months is three times trillion, two hundred trillion liras. At the price of electricity sales, 14.8 per cent were not sent to consumers. Who did he stay with? He stayed with the distributors. They were the distributors. Last year it was three times trillion, two hundred liras, ten times trillion this year. Check these out, guys.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0147par0509	Is he staying at TEIAS?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0510	Look, check these out because...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0148par0511	Where is he? Where is he?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0142par0512	The electricity consumed in 2010 is 75 billion kilowatts, when you give it something to it. Now, for him, friends, business is being done, no contract. Sir, we've done the minimum price. What did you do with the minimum price? Now, at the cost of a lamppost in Ankara, with the material that's being spent there, I don't know, is the price of an electric pole in another rural area? Guys, look, well, if what we're saying is wrong, let's set up a research commission. You call them prosecutors, but look, there are 85 counts of investigations against Istanbul City Hall. The ministry didn't give them permission to investigate, the DA gave them permission to investigate, but these cases aren't being handled. The prosecutors are losing the files, too, guys. Well, what shall we say, who's entitled to the rights of this citizen? Now, we sing here. Sir, the prosecutors are acting. Many of the prosecutors are already afraid of you, and they don't go for it. Then the House must handle it. That's why, friends, because there's such a law of corruption, you're covering up negativity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the future, they'll probably tell the AKP people, what they've done in the past, they're interested in covering up corruption. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0149par0521	Mr. Young, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 33 is accepted. The votes of the substances on the second section are complete. Mr. Secretary has a two-minute statement, please come in.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0150par0526	Mr. President, dear friends, I repeat, a congressman has the right to learn all sorts of things by asking, without taunting, without slandering, without any basis for corruption. Friends, look, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The issues on the subject were given without contract. Didn't they just say that? Even though I've told you this, if someone insists on it, I'll look for another intention in him, out of good faith, and look for another intention. Friends, Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office... the subject is the subject of the subject, which the speaker has just mentioned... According to Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's decision dated 22/10/2012, there is no room for prosecution regarding Boyabat HES.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0151par0529	All right, you've got the prosecutors, so why don't you give them to me?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0150par0530	Now, if you say that the prosecutors are yours, this time you're only going below a certain level, not about the General Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, not about the Assembly, but about its law. I don't accept that, man.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0151par0531	Did he object, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0150par0532	Wait a minute, you asked, I'm reading now, you're gonna listen. For members of the Governing Body of Turkey -- counting, etcetera, etcetera -- I'm booking the removal of documents from the processing of all the jobs you count -- I'm giving you a number, friends, 34,342 -- that there is no room for prosecution and the removal of the documents related to the crimes filed in the report petitions, 22/10/2012... Now, dear friends, somewhere, Turkey is growing and growing, investments in these things are added as much as a country. In 2012, Turkey grew to 8-10 countries, currently a member of the European Union. It's about the transmission lines of each of these, our friend just told me, I warned him, so I'll say it again. ▪ Do you not deceive the people when stated in sharp lines? The cut lines are programmed transmission lines, written here, under here, friends. I'm just saying, if you don't read this, you'll look ridiculous.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0152par0535	You're the one who's being ridiculous because you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0150par0536	If you say it when you've read it, then you've done something else wrong. Now, we're here to present court decisions about the prosecution with dates, numbers, everything, and then I asked for curiosity. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are tasked with maintaining the dignity of his power and opposition in accordance with the presence of the Grand National Assembly. A congressman has no right to ask every question in a secular manner, friends, using all of his powers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Like I said, it's about personality rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0153par0541	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0154par0542	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0153par0543	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0154par0544	Yesterday, Mr. Secretary insulted us and our party by saying "iftira" again about the allegations I made with the reports. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0155par0545	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0153par0546	Did he mention your name? He didn't. Please, he didn't mention your name, but he spoke in general, he didn't mention your name.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0156par0548	You're giving the minister five minutes...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0157par0549	Mr. President, if this is about me, I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0153par0550	Sure, okay.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0158par0553	Dear friends, Congressmans, look, we presented the report yesterday. Now, Mr. Secretary says that's what the State has decided. In 2008, after the proceedings have been compromised, if you pass a pardon law, the prosecution will decide according to the law. The problem is, it's been dealt with by pardoning here, as in coal corruption. The other thing is, Bart just told us about our congressman. For four years, a contract -- which should be cancelled in a non-verbal manner -- has not been cancelled, and the general manager, who made this contract, is giving counsel to the company that needs to be cancelled. Now, I ask everyone, is it ethical, dear friends? On one hand, you're going to sign a contract, the contract is going to be full of illegalities, and as soon as you leave your post, you're going to get involved in a business relationship with this company. What the Minister has to do here without insulting him is, yes, the MPs have a claim like that, so I'll start investigating immediately. And what you have to do, my friends, is when a law comes, we tell you...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0159par0559	Mr. President, I want an answer.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0160par0560	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0158par0561	Look, guys, there have been issues like this in the past, and we're saying that these conditions are meant to justify it.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0160par0562	Minister, may I ask you...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0161par0563	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0160par0564	Please... because it will happen again, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0162par0565	Mr. Secretary, if you look, you'll make a better decision. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0160par0568	Let's get this over with, guys!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0163par0569	Mr. President has responded to my speech, and I want your word.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0162par0570	There isn't a minute.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0164par0571	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0165par0572	You're giving the minister five minutes, Mr. President, isn't that something?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0164par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0166par0574	Please... please... please, it's okay.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0167par0575	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has responded to my speech.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0166par0576	Mr. Young, a lot of friends have spoken and have to answer to them.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0167par0577	Okay, look...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0166par0578	If they all have to answer again, we can't finish this law.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0167par0579	But he gave the wrong answer to my speech.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0166par0580	Okay, fix it. Here, he's taking over.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0168par0582	So if it's teasing, it should be from the podium.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0166par0583	My master said I'd fix it, so we said, Mr. Shandir, let's make this work.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0168par0584	It's not to give advice...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0169par0585	It's all fun, it's all fun.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0166par0586	Mr. Young, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0170par0589	Mr. President, now look, what did I say in my speech? Without a contract, a company had a 417 trillion-dollar job built to several companies. In 2008, the law was passed, bringing amnesty to these free-of-charge jobs. Now, let the D.A. read the alibi. The prosecution, of course, said: "Even though this work is irregular, there is no crime in being forgiven by this law. Now, what's important here is that the job is unintended. So, very clearly, here, the Minister protects corruption, protects corruption. I mean, which state office is going to give free work, call his next of kin, call his friend, come, do it. He'll say, "Come, do it." And then he'll make a law. So...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0171par0593	Thank you, Mr. Young. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0170par0594	After that, the state's attorney general's office... tells me why he didn't object to this prosecutor's decision.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0171par0595	Thank you. [[Continue]] Now, to show the color of the game, Recep Special, Isparta.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0172par0603	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I'm afraid I can't do what the opposition wants, but I'm going to vote in favor of the bill brought by our government and group, our party. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0173par0607	Bravo, Recep!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0174par0608	I want a word against you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0175par0609	Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0176par0611	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Electric Market Law has been debated enough in the Parliamentary General Assembly for 15 days, and the opposition, the power, the government, the Commission have passed on their contribution to this law. I present the adoption of the law to the discretion of the General Assembly, and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0177par0615	Thank you. The entire bill is subject to an open vote.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0178par0617	You've found another way to interrupt the opposition, congratulations.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0177par0618	I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0179par0619	Dear President, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0177par0620	Which one? I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0180par0621	It's all fun, fun... it's all fun, don't you get it?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0181par0622	The AKP is speaking in favor and against, what kind of justice is that?
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0177par0623	Please take your seat, Mr. Acar. We'll vote on the electronic device and give you two minutes. Here you go. [[There was a vote on the electronic device.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I present the open vote of the Electric Market Law Bill: ▪ Number of votes used: 241 [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özlem Yemişçi Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, they'd like to make a brief thank-you speech.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0182par0636	It's accepted and it's legal, sir. It's legal.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0183par0637	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0177par0638	The bill has been adopted and legalized. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0184par0641	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, today you have contributed to Turkey's growing power, its opposition to the creation of the market, about the energy construction of Turkey. I especially want to thank you. I also want to thank all the friends who have good intentions, good intentions, advice, suggestions, criticism. Hopefully, Turkey will continue to grow, the energy sector will continue to grow, and we'll leave a better Turkey for our children and our future together, hopefully. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-14sit02spe0185par0645	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Good luck with that. I'm taking a five-minute break.
