tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. We're having a round of interviews today according to the schedule. The ninth round includes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the Ministry of National Education, Higher Education Board; the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, and the budget and precise accounts of universities. 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2012 (x) 506 and 507 S. The number of printers and grants shall be added to the 27th Union Charter, dated 10/12/2013. 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Council for Higher Education 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Measurement, Selection and Placement Central Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Ankara University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2012 2) Middle East Technical University a) Central Management Budget for 2014 Middle East Technical University B) Middle East Technical University i'm Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Hacettepe University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) İstanbul University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) İstanbul University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Boğaziçi University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bosporus University 2012 Central Management Final Account A) Marmara University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Yıldız Technical University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 10) An architect Sinan University of Fine Arts A) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2014 Central Management Budget B) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2012 Central Management Final Account A) Ege University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) 9 September University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Thracian University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Uludağ University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Anadolu University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Selçuk University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Mediterranean University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Ercijas University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Republican University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Çukurova University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) 19 May University Central Management Budget 2014 B) 19 May University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Ataturk University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Ataturk University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Inönu University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Fırat University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Firat University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Dicle University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Centennial University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Centennial University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Gaziantep University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account for 2012 29) İzmir Institute of Technology a) Izmir Institute of Higher Technology 2014 Central Management Budget B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Final Account for 2012 30) Gebze Institute of Technology A) Gebze Institute of Higher Technology 2014 Central Management Budget B) Gebze Institute of High Technologies 2012 Central Management Final Account a) Harran University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Harran University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Bulent Ecevit University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Blunt Ecevit University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Mersin University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Pamukkale University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Balıkesir University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Balıkesir University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Alexei University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Alexei University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Sakarya University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Sakarya University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Celal Bayar University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Celal Bayar University Central Management Final Account for 2012 41) Abant Izzet Baysal University A) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Kafkas University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account for 2012 45) Çanakkale 18 March University a) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2014 Central Management Budget B) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2012 Central Management Final Account a) Niğde University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Dumlupınar University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2012 49) Muğla Sıtký Koçman University A) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Final Account for 2012 50) Heromarash Milkman Imam University A) Heromarash Milker Imam University Central Management Budget 2014 B) Kahramanmarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account for 2012 A) Kırıkkale University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Final Account for 2012 52) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University A) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Eskişehir Osman Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Galatasaray University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Ahi Evran University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Kastamonon University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Kastamonu University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Düzce University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2012 57) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University A) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Uğur University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2012 59) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University a) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Namik Kemal University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Erzincan University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Aksaray University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Giresun University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Hitit University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Bozok University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bozok University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Adıyaman University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Adıyaman University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Military University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Military University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Amasya University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Final Account for 2012 70) Pain İbrahim Chechen University A) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Budget 2014 B) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Sinop University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Siirt University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account for 2012 73) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University A) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University Central Management Budget 2014 B) Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Karabük University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2012 75) Church 7 December University A) Kilis University of December 7th 2014 Central Management Budget B) Kilis 7 December University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Çanırı Karatekin University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Çankırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account for 2012 78) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University A) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Cırklareli University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account for 2012 81) Osmaniye Korkuş University A) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2014 Central Management Budget B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2012 Central Management Final Account a) Bingol University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bingöl University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Mus Alparslan University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Batman University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Batman University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Ardahan University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Bartın University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Bayburt University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Gümühane University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Silverhane University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Hakkari University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Iğdır University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Iğdır University Central Management Account for 2012 a) Şırnak University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Şırnak University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Tunceli University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Yalova University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Turkish German University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Turkey's German University Central Executive Account for 2012 A) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Bursa Technical University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Bursa Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Final Account for 2012 99) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 A) Abdullah Gül University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Final Account for 2012 a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 103) Adana University of Science and Technology a) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Budget for 2014 B) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Final Account for 2012 104) Ankara University of Social Sciences a) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the ninth round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals: On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Nazmi Gür, Van MP; Erol Dora, Mardin MP; Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP; Halil Özcan, Şanlıurfa MP; Abdullah Çışkan, Kırşehir MP; Muyettin Aksak, Erzurum MP; İdris Güllüce, İstanbul MP; Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP; Ilyas Şalı MP; Orhan Atalalay, Ardahan MP; Fikri İl, Kopelı MP; Sevde Bağit Kazar, Kahramarash MP; Mehmet Sah, Kahramarash MP; Osman Çakır, Düz MP; Ercan Canuld MP. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: Osman Taney Korturk, İstanbul MP; Mustafa Serdar Soydan, Çanakkale MP; Sena Kaleli, Bursa MP; Fatma Nur Serker, İstanbul MP; Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP; Recep Gürkan, Edirne MP. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP; Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP; Zuhal Topcu, Ankara MP. On behalf of his subjects: Ali Şahin, Gaziantep MP; Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP who wants to speak against him. Nazmi Gür, Van MP on behalf of the Party for Peace and Democracy.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0002par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary of State isn't here, is there? We'll probably talk to the walls again. On the other
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0003par0355	We're here.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0002par0356	There's no Secretary of State.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0003par0357	But so are we.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0002par0358	No, no, no Secretary of State, he's supposed to be here. I guess whatever this opposition is talking about, I'll read what I know again. Well, let him know what he knows, thanks to him. Dear friends, without a doubt, one of the most critical times of Turkish foreign policy is the Syrian crisis and their relationship with Kurds depending on it. On the one hand, the European Union process, on the other hand, is the best evidence of how this government is confused about its foreign policy in Turkey, such as the Shanghai Five, for example, or the Shanghai Co-operation Organization. Today we are in the most unstable Middle East in the history of the Republic, dear friends. What's even worse is that the state of Turkey has a huge share in this instability, and the wrong foreign policies that have been followed have a huge share. Sadly, there is a AKP foreign policy today that prefers to be neighbouring Al Qaeda rather than neighbouring Kurds. It's no wonder that some 940km limits with Syria are controlled by radical groups, providing them logistical support, camping, weapons, and eventually, returning them to Turkey, such as a boomerang, dear friends. Although, today, the AKP government seems to have cut off aid to organisations such as Al Qaeda, Al Nusra and ISIS, it has thus far shown support for these organisations. These groups also make special efforts to prevent international aid organizations from reaching the interior of Syria, Syria, especially in areas under their control. Dear friends, these organizations, which continue to threaten the Rojava Kurdistan of the Syrian people -- which we today call Rojava Kurdistan -- continue to receive support from Turkey. To be clear, in a vast geography that stretches from Afghanistan to the Mediterranean, these groups have declared their sovereignty by radical groups. In this, it is important to say that Turkish foreign policy has a share of the wrong foreign policy, which the AKP is continuing to carry out in error. Dear friends, as BDP, we have always said that the decision makers of AKP foreign policy have led Turkey to meaningless dangers and adventures in order to make it a regional force. In addition, we see that the meanings of the AKP's concept of regional power also contain inconsistencies. For example, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Order of Qatar, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which Turkey has adopted in the Arab Spring process returning to winter, is the best evidence of who has been led down this well by string of forces. During the Arab Spring, Mr. Davutoglu and Mr. Erdogan had repeatedly complained that foreign policies were in the concept of Turkish water in Turkey, regarding the active participation of the AKP government. They made an effort to develop an active, interactive Turkish foreign policy. But unfortunately, when we're getting out of this passive situation -- active position, intervention -- it's also caused by the evidence at home. Dear friends, we see that the AKP is eager to practice a state of mind that claims to have a say everywhere. The reason is to get out of the audience and become an actor in the face of regional and global developments. Of course, it's understandable, and it's expected of any democratic government. It's always better to be a strong actor than to be someone else's pawn. If that's the choice, there's no problem. However, it is wise to say that at what cost? He'll be an actor, but at what cost? In return, what did Turkey pay, and what price does it pay? • Part of the answer is hidden in the number of our citizens who lost their lives due to the Syrian crisis. So far, more than 70 of our citizens have lost their lives due to the Syrian crisis. We don't count the economic losses of our borders with Syria, and the economic losses of Turkey, dear friends, we don't even tell them. Dear MPs, I would like to briefly share with you from here the foreign policy that Turkey should follow as BDP: Turkey must now give up its role in relations with regional states -- in the context of accession -- as Turkey has to give up its role. Turkey can neither be the region's brother nor the region's master, nor with these policies Turkey can be a state of the region representing power and will in the region. On the other hand, Turkey's desire to become a hegemon, by resurrecting the ancient Ottoman spirit in the region, with a new explosion in the old territory of the Ottomans -- such as it will shake our veins -- will dominate the old areas of the Turkish race. The joy, friends, today, has hit the rock of Iran, Russia, China. For him, Turkey must quickly give up this hegemon dream of being power and its love. Turkey can only be difficult in the region by developing democratic relations with the regional states, by solving its internal problems inside, by democratizing, by developing its economy on democratic foundations, by sharing it with its rights and justice. Otherwise, there is no way that Turkey can have regional power with these policies, dear friends. We think it would be more consistent to run policies on democratic republican principles rather than make policy over the Ottoman heritage in foreign policy. Otherwise, if Saudi Arabia tries to make politics through the legacy of the Islamic state; Greece, Helen; Italy, Rome; Iran, Persia; God forbid you decide the rest. Of course, while Kurds also become foreign policy through the ancient Med Empire, which, you know, is the rising power of the Middle East, the democratic power of the Kurds today, and if they take that kind of approach, you can't imagine the rest. Dear friends, foreign policy should be developed within the framework of principles that all peoples and identities living in Turkey can adopt, and should serve our peoples. A foreign policy that prioritizes the sensitivities of a single ethnic and religious identity will have the potential to create instability and conflict both within the country and abroad. In this context, the AKP government must form policies, both in domestic policy and in foreign policy, considering the sensitivity of Kurds, Alevis and all other peoples, who are part of Turkey's society. If there is an ethnically-based Turkish foreign policy, there will surely be foreign policies to be remembered for different ethnic concepts, and he must never forget that. If the government is to form a foreign policy with a Sunni axis, it will face foreign policies based on them, which will take refuge in Alevi foreign policy or, in effect, different sects. That's what's scary, dear friends. It is this approach that will start a fight in the Middle East and slaughter the people in the Middle East. So we advise the government to give up these ethnic and religious-based foreign policies as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, it's a very critical issue of what basis foreign policy philosophy should be based on, and it's not only in the field of international relations, it's in the field of domestic policy, and it's affected by its roots. So, whatever your inner approach is, your ideological, political approach, your philosophical approach, this state of mind, it's actually reflected in your foreign policy. Here, the ideological, political situation, the state of which the AKP was formed on, unfortunately, is reflected in its foreign policy, which ignores the reality of the world. In distinguishing a friend and his enemy, a government must correctly analyze the history of thousands of years of civilization in the region. If this government is going to test its friend and enemy, as it analyzes the region, and if it is going to be able to redefine itself within this region, it has to do very well to define the friend and enemy that we live in, the Middle East, the Caucasus, the Balkans, and finally the Mediterranean, and North Africa, in this Indian. In fact, if he sees his friend as an enemy and inflicts all kinds of persecution on him, Turkey will be the one to lose. Dear friends, we desire a Turkey that is free of showmanship, free of populism, free of ethnic nationalism and sectarianism, and on this basis we propose that Turkey's foreign policy be shaped on these principles. In this context, we can say that relations with Kurds are as important to Turkey's foreign policy as domestic policy. Relations with the Kurdish administration, which is official in the Iraqi Kurdistan... of course, we support these relations, particularly the government's relations with the government of southern Kurdistan, the need for further enhancement of economic, diplomatic relations, social relations, cultural relations. But here, again, the formism, the shape-shifting approach and the hesitant approach that the government sometimes falls into -- unfortunately, there is also a segregation in Kurdish policy -- that there are sides that frighten Turkey. I think he should be comfortable with this, Turkey. Because, especially with Mr. Barzani, and with the government of southern Kurdistan, natural gas, oil, energy agreements are a very important, strategic step towards the future of Turkey's people. Dear friends, of course, it also reflects on our manners and actions. On the one hand, we will avoid saying Kurdish, and on the other, we will avoid saying Kurdistan. On the other hand, the fact that Mr. Prime Minister once met Mr. Barzani in Diyarbakır and said "Kurdistan" (Kurdistan administration) made some of us angry, some of us happy, and some of us thought deeply. I think you need to see a fact: there's a Kurdistan, where there's a Kurdish Federation led by Mr. Barzani. Under the Iraqi Constitution, the Kurdish Federation has become official, and Turkey today remains diplomatic, political, and commercial relations with that Kurdish Federation. But, dear friends, if we look at these shape-shifting approaches again, of course, according to the Constitution of Iraq, the Kurdistan region has a flag and a symbol. Every time Mr. Barzani visits Turkey, Turkey insists on putting the Kurdistan flag next to the Iraqi flag. However, ministers from Turkey, ministers going to Hewler, the ministers who went to Erbil. The Prime Minister is always behind him with the Iraqi flag. He also sees the Kurdistan flag and the Turkish flag. At least this is diplomatic courtesy from now on. Speaking of which, a few words should be said about the Turkish Grand National Assembly taking its statement out of the budget texts. Turkey's governments and, therefore, the State Department would spend its entire budget erasing the word Kurdistan from the memory of the world, and there is such an approach. We criticize this bilateral approach, this hesitant approach, of course. It is true, dear friends, that the expression "Kurdistan" defined by the geography, sociological and historical dimensions of the Kurds was tried to be removed from the memory of the peoples of Turkey after the 1924 Constitution came to life. But it is not possible for us Kurds to erase this concept from the memory of the Kurdish people and from the memory of the people of the world. Remember, once in a while tourists who come to Turkey have their pockets searched, their maps searched. If the word "Kurdistan" appears on this map, these tourists will face real challenges. We have to remember in this country that tourists are being questioned about where they get these maps, who they get them from. Dear friends, again, this segregation continues even now. For example, as these tourists enter the country, what are you doing in Diyarbakir, Van. In Haqkari, Şırnak, Ağrı. You go to Bodrum, Antalya, Marmaris. With such approaches, I once again try to highlight the approaches of this government and the state both inside and outside. Again, dear friends, you know that the legitimate government, known for a long time as the regional government of Kurdistan, was again perceived by the Foreign Ministry as the Iraqi Regional Kurdish Administration. I don't think that's supposed to change any more. We want to say that calling a truth by its name is a much more realistic approach to calling it by its name. For this reason, dear friends, the name of the local government of Kurdistan is, the regional administration of Kurdistan; the president of this is Mr. Mesut Barzani, and Turkey, if it wants to continue its relations in the future, if it really chooses to respect the Kurds and the Kurdish people outside, it has to change that language, too. The contribution Turkey can offer to regional stability is indeed great, but its historical conditions are at stake, dear friends. If Turkey is to contribute to peace and stability in its territory today, it must first make peace with its own Kurds in its own home. In this context, the process of democratic and solution will now lead to Turkey's development into a negotiation process, considering the deepening of the peace process and all international examples. Just as in South Africa, just as in Northern Ireland, these problems, conflicting processes, are surely resolved by sitting around a table and negotiating. If you don't know what you're dealing with, if you don't get involved, the solution to these problems is also impossible to overcome. For him, if Turkey in the Middle East is truly an example of its strong democracy, its domestic peace, if the role is to be a model country, the Kurdish issue must be resolved by democratic, political methods. And that's when you'll see that Turkey will have a world power, both in its territory and in its territory. Turkey can only have the world's power with its democracy, its peace and stability, and its imagination is to think otherwise, dear friends. We, of course, have shared our own proposals, criticisms, opinions, as the BDP forms foreign policy over and over again with Mr. State Department and Parliament. Make alliances with the Kurds. We said, "Don't just make alliances with the Kurds within yourselves, but also with the Kurds around you." Because Kurds no longer live in Turkey, in Syria, in Rojava Kurdistan, in southern Kurdistan, the faces of the Kurds living in East Kurdistan are facing the West, facing the Western values. A historical alliance with the Kurds, given that aspect, will give you a win, strengthen you. Otherwise, it'll be a stumbling block, a hostile attitude against the Kurds, a hostile attitude that you'll lose to you, and Turkey will lose to you. Dear friends should not be allowed to tighten relations with the EU. Today, Turkey must not seek different things. A friend of ours was just talking about the Shanghai Five, and he talked about multi-layered politics. It's not a multi-layered policy, it's a political choice. Either you make your choice from the European Union -- which Turkey, along with 2005, is moving with this strategy, the government is moving -- or you have to stop putting sticks under the name multi-layered policies. It's a bluff, we're aware of that. It is a bluff to enter the Shanghai Co-operation Organization into the Shanghai Five. Like taking missiles from China when I was a NATO member. There can't be a foreign policy as wrong as this, there can't be a foreign policy administration as wrong as this. Of course, Mr. Davutoglu has been visiting neighbouring countries for the past month, including Iraq, Iran, Armenia, Greece, Cyprus, Russia. Some of the government's signals to give up the mistakes it has made in Syria so far will also allow Turkey to play an active and powerful role in its own region, as well as in Turkey's concrete steps to develop diplomatic relations with Armenia, which will again contribute to Turkey's European Union process. Of course, we have so far criticised the government's policy of zero problems with its neighbours because we almost had no neighbors. Re-entering the government in a different way, especially with Iran, Iraq, Armenia, Greece, Cyprus, Russia, and the diplomatic relations with Russia -- which we hope -- is proof that Turkey has actually given up these wrongs. Of course, Mr. Davutoglu says that's not the case, Mr. Davutoglu says he follows a dynamic policy. Mr. Davutoglu says that changes in Turkish foreign policy are actually due to dynamics in the region, but there's one more thing you have to tell Mr. Secretary: you can't close this U-turn with these approaches. If you do the truth, if you do the right thing, if you give up the wrong attitude in foreign policy, if you give up the wrong policies that have been followed so far, if you strive to establish good relations with your neighbors, if you live by policies that will strengthen, not force, but strengthen Turkey, we will be behind you, we will do it without hesitation. There is no doubt about it. Of course, Turkey's foreign policy must be classified as follows, dear friends: First of all, zero problem policy with the neighbors. Then, you know, the Alliance of Civilities. Increased trade and political approach with Arab countries, where the Prime Minister's ambition to be the leader of Arab countries or the leader of Muslim world. Again, dear friends, I am open to Africa. That's a very positive approach. Of course, Turkey can't be expected to follow a policy that is restricted only in a specific area. Of course, it is vital that he develop diplomatic relations with Africa, with Latin America, with the rest of the world. We do not refuse to appreciate the good things that have been done. Again, dear friends, the interventionist politics of Turkey for Syria. Controlled slowdown in European Union relations. We have all seen and witnessed this controlled slowdown, especially during the Cypriot presidency. More intensive cooperation with NATO, Project Missile Shield, The treaty with China on the construction of missiles planted in Malatya (Matatya)... The transfer of energy lines through Turkey and the ongoing competition with Russia. The continued military cooperation despite the political crisis with Israel. Diplomatic initiatives against Armenian genocide laws. The arrest of Kurdish politicians in Europe and the execution of extradition to Turkey. Turkey's foreign policy has been a priority. Here is another priority: You know, Turkey's foreign policy has a special area of its own, it's fighting, it's fighting. That is the closure of Kurdish televisions broadcasting in Europe. It's almost as if he's put it among special pleasures, Turkey. If you're in there making peace with your Kurds, you can't keep fighting the Kurds outside. Now that you're trying to shut down the television set up in place of Roj TV, it does not serve the process of democracy and peace, the process of resolution, nor does it serve the sisterly policies that you talk about so much. Once again, I'd like to put an end to the terms of the lives of the embassies here, dear friends. We've always spoken about foreign policy, the wrong policies, but we haven't brought up the problems of the workers, the employees of the State Department, who work in foreign policy. We are also aware of the problems of workers working for the State Department, the people who work for these works, and we invite the government and the Minister to solve these problems. For listening to me... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to thank you all. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0004par0403	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker is Erol Dora, Mardin MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0005par0406	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment budget under the draft of the 2014 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the General Assembly. In one country, democracy is meaningful, functional and quality, in the sense that society can intervene in decisions about itself. It should not be forgotten that democracy is not a representational mechanism, but a participatory and negotiating process. In this sense, policy's capacity to create solutions is related to its ability to build negotiations processes. Being open to accountability, controlability, and ready are key points in a government's report card for democratism and transparency. Because, whether a budget is manageable or not, it is also a mirror of the policies and actions of power in other areas. Talks and discussions on the budget now have to go beyond a symbolic ceremony. The concept of democracy remains at a level of claim, especially without an effective social participation and supervision on the budget of a ministry with a responsibility for the entire ecosystem, such as the Environment Ministry we discussed. A society that has no say in the use of its resources can't be expected to be active in other decision-making processes. The principle of the World Environment Declaration of the United Nations Environment and Human Conference, which was collected in Stockholm on June 5, 1972, states: "This principle is the basic right of a man to live in a quality of freedom, equality, and suitable life in an environment that allows him to live in an honorable and peaceful life. In this context, we live in an age and geography where we need to be extremely sensitive to the protection of the environment, the care of life resources for humanity and for all living things, the survival and development of natural and cultural heritage. In our country, where even basic human rights are not protected enough, I must point out that I find it meaningful and necessary to defend the rights of the environment and to talk about the rights of nature. Dear MPs, freedom is not only the right of the people; freedom is also the right of the whole ecosystem, including lakes, rivers, trees, and animals. Let's not forget that man is only a part of this ecosystem. He is not the owner of the world, he is the tenant, and he has to get along with his neighbors, other members of the ecosystem - air, water, soil, and other creatures. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue my talk on the CED report, which is a very important legal law on protecting the environment. When we think about the environmental impact assessment process in Turkey, we first think about the CED regulations and the Environmental Law. Article 10 of the Environmental Law requires that institutions, institutions and businesses receive CED reports that can cause environmental problems as a result of activities they plan to carry out. The purpose of this document, which is called the CED report, is to ensure that all negative environmental impacts that will be implemented, that the project will be built, will be detected in advance and that the necessary measures will be taken, and will be reached at the point where the project will be approved or not approved. A total of eight changes have been made, including one time in 1997, two times in 2002, one time in 2004, 2008 and one time in 2009, and two times in 2011. With changes that we think have arisen from the pressures of investment and energy sector, the CED regulations have moved further and further away from the goal of environmental protection over the past year, each change aims to further pave the way for investors. Only 32 of the 33,824 CED decisions issued during the 17-year period have been reported negatively, according to the CED decisions between 1993-2010, held by the CED Office of Permission and Control. The number of decisions is 31.285. In our country, where nature and the environment are entrusted, the natural site, the conservation basin, the forest, the historical site, there are critical figures on the decisions made by departmental units. In the meantime, let's not cause any misunderstanding, as these 32 projects have been cancelled. These projects have been modified in various ways, and some projects have been re-appropriated, and some of them have been implemented by the decisions that are not necessary. Projects launched prior to this date were also exempted from the Environmental Effect Evaluation Report. The most concrete example of this is the Ilisu Dam Project on the Tigris River, which is widely known as the flood of Hasankeyf, and many other major projects have been implemented without analyzing, calculating, and in a nutshell by the state, because the investment programme was taken before 1993. Dear lawmakers, some meetings are held in the name of the public's information on the project in the residential area where the CED reports will be established during the preparation process. In this formalized practice, the public's objections are heard and recorded in the reports. In the process of decision-making, the public's objections are actually unappreciated by the statistical figures I've just stated. Meanwhile, there is a tragic issue about the abuse of public information meetings. As it is known, there are thousands of villages and deserts that have been evacuated by the state or abandoned by security concerns during decades of conflicting environments. Thus, most people who had to leave their evacuated villages and emigrated to other cities and other countries do not even know about these projects being processed. In other words, these dehumanized villages have been abandoned at the mercy of quarry, mines, hydroelectric power plants. There is no public meeting of the CED reports in these dehumanized villages. Thus, these villages, which have been migrated, have been opened to all kinds of thalans with the state's hands. Precious lawmakers have changed the horizontal legislation in the environment in order to bring additional exemptions to Turkey's Environmental Effect Evaluations, as stated in the European Union's 2013 Progress Report, in April, in a way that is not consistent with the requirements of the CED directive. As a result, many large-scale infrastructure projects, including nuclear plants in the Black Sea and Mediterranean Region, microscale hydropower plants, the third bridge in Istanbul and the new airport, have been excluded from the scope of the CED report. Dear lawmakers, the framework legislation for nature protection, which is often on the agenda in the integration process of the European Union, and the strategy for national biodiversity and action plan have yet to be adopted. There is not enough legislation yet to maintain biological diversity. In this regard, the massacre of the bat still remains in memory, as 10,000 different species of bats in the Gulf of Edremit were used to mate and raise their young, despite all the actions that they used to close the dam doors. Dear lawmakers, of course, one of the issues seen within the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, but which should be addressed in terms of environmental impacts, is the problem with mining and gold-mining in private. The mining initiative in Çanakkale has reached a critical stage, as of today, for about 15 or 20 years, associated with valuable metals. Mines, Çanakkale, Central, Bell, Bajramic and Lapseki are located on the border and in the Kaz Mountains. In the region where search operations are about to become business activity, thousands of drilling have been done, and earlier drillings have indicated that the villages in the region are muddy, muddy water flows out of the taps, and some villages are now drinking checkacana water. The fact that this happened in these early drillings reveals the danger facing underground water reserves in this region. Although mining companies have indicated that they will take precautions, significant threats await the region. Among these are pollution of subterranean and water resources and the lack of water reserves in the region, the irrefutable destruction of acid rock drainage and heavy metal content of high acidic water, noise pollution and pollution related to pollutant pollution, the risk of accident and fire, the destruction of forest areas in the region, the emergence of various diseases and disorders in people, the negative impact of agriculture and animalism, the adverse destruction of the region's ecological structures, the damage of natural life forms in the region, in relation to damage to the damage to areas and water resources. As nature sees human labor, in an economic system that sees it as a meta, and aims to exploit it, at a time when pollution is all around it, and it moves people to search for unspoiled natural habitat, the greatest treasure is the fields of natural life and biodiversity. In such a case, opening the region of Çanakkale and the Kaz Mountains to gold companies is synonymous with taking responsibility for all the negative effects that will occur. The natural riches of a country can only be used for the benefit of people and nature who live on that land. Despite the public, it's equivalent to attacking the rights of those who live in the land, leaving these resources to local or multinational corporations that have the number of partners. In particular, there is no explanation for this attack through laws and regulations that block the legal rights of the people living in that country. Dear lawmakers, hydropower plants continue to threaten our resources, and unfortunately, the relevant ministries do not give up this practice. The methods of interfering with the water are made by cutting water or changing the bed of the stream, and when we look at the effects after the HES production, the natural flow and structure of the streams are changing, causing the quality of water to deteriorate after the HES construction. The amount of oxygen in the water decreases, the loss of dissolved oxygen affects the lives of all living creatures in the region, endangers it. The life of creatures in water, from microorganisms to fish, that need oxygen is at stake. Again, it is a serious threat to their lives, as water is being kept there, or its flow is waning, or the trees around it, or the animals, or all the creatures that are around it can't reach this water. The streams pass through the deltas and reach the sea. When you stop the water from flowing, we also hold the nutrients that the stream carries, depending on the sediment. Lastly: While protesting the construction of Kulp and Silvan HES in Diyarbakır, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and State Water Affairs General Directorate have launched work on three new HES constructions on the Tigris River, which passes through Diyarbakır. At this rate, there won't be a creek bed that hasn't been built on it very soon, and in a longer period of time, more serious consequences will be inevitable. Dear lawmakers, increasing industrialisation, accelerated urban life and further production and consumption policies make climate change from fossil fuel a serious problem for mankind. With the rapid extinction of nature, the cutting of forests for new urban habitats, the drying of wetlands, and the destruction of many ecosystems, the balance of climate change is once again distorted. For today, climate change has reached a more serious point with more greenhouse gas emissions and more destruction of areas that hold and swallow these gases. As these developments unfold, the crucial issue is that Turkey still has no overall national greenhouse gas emissions target in its National Action Plan for Climate Change. With the Copenhagen settlement, more than 140, more than 140 countries reported greenhouse gas reductions, restrictions or voluntary projects, Turkey refrained from making any commitments. Turkey, which did not target at the general level, increased greenhouse gas emissions by 124 per cent in 2011, according to 1990. As it is known, the increase in greenhouse gases is causing the planet's temperature average to increase, global warming. With this reality in the open, it is unthinkable for Turkey to renounce that responsibility. The government must take the necessary steps in this matter. Another important thing about the environment is the matter of nuclear plants. Nuclear plants are facilities that last long and cost a lot of money. The dismantling of the facilities that complete your life is long and very risky. And so far, there is no formula in the world for safe hiding radioactive waste. While developed world countries are looking for ways to get rid of nuclear energy, Turkey must also turn to renewable energy sources. It is an important responsibility for the citizens and the world of states to produce energy policies that respect nature, humans, and the future. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the other thing to talk about is urban transformation policies. The dream of creating market cities, which the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has a motto for itself, is a total destruction by turning the green areas of cities' lungs into plots. The decision taken by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in the past months would lead to the urbanisation of the most important green and natural area of Diyarbakır's Hevsel Gardens, which would mean ecological destruction. More than 180 species of birds live in the Hevsel Gardens. Hevsel, the number-one bird paradise of Turkey and the largest bird in the region, is also an important destination for birds because the abundance of food is a blessing for birds. The migratory birds use the Tigris Valley and therefore the Hevsel Gardens as stations. Besides birds, there are dozens of animals like hedgehogs, foxes, weasels, otters, pigs and squirrels. Agriculture is still being done in the Hevsel Gardens, where Diyarbakir used to meet the need for vegetables and fruit. While the Ministry of Culture and Tourism also supports the work launched by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality and civil society institutions to get Diyarbakır Walls on the UNESCO World Heritage List, which includes the Hevsel Gardens, this decision by the Ministry of Environment is not a product of the right policy. Urban policies need to be reassessed, new policies that are in harmony with the natural environment, not for consumption, not polluting, historical and cultural environments to protect and develop human-scale urban tissues. One of the key issues in urban arrangements, along with the ministry, is the immediate implementation of the ground arrangements where disabled individuals can act easier, access to services, and do not feel prevented. This must include mandatory legal regulations. Precious lawmakers, when considered what can be done as solutions, first of all, real estate and property work should be created based on logic, not on capital, not on ranta, but on the logic that solves people's problems, and on the basis of regional differences in real estate and property, which so far has been made, not on the back of expert statements, but on the basis of citizens should be informed and included in every process. It's every creature's right to meet its needs from natural resources. Therefore, it is not for any of us to give their natural resources to the monopoly of people's monopoly, or to the monopoly of the companies that people build in a more private way. Human life and activities should be studied not to be consumed by ecological values, but to be reproduced and to be harmonised with other species in nature. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've had a lot of thoughts, but I can't say them because time isn't enough. Again, I salute the General Assembly. I wish our country and all our citizens the best of the 2014 budget, and my compliments.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0006par0440	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0007par0442	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the budget of the Ministry of Education of 2014. I salute the General Assembly. Education is one of the most important and sensitive issues in Turkey. Of course, it is not possible to express such an important and so troubled issue in a limited period of time. I'd like to start by reminding you that if it's the foundation of a system, or the center, or, in fact, it's broken, and it's rotten, then it's a small birth, or it's a decay from the very beginning. It doesn't seem possible to expect anything other than a problem from a single-minded, racist, memorizing, assimilational educational system, but I'm still going to try to sum up each of the problem areas in one sentence, so that they can be recorded and expressed once again. I'd like to start with the name of the Ministry of National Education. Why is the Ministry of National Education not the Ministry of Education? Why not the ministry of democratic education? Did you ever think of that? It's a problem on its own. In addition, educational workers have financial and essence issues. It's the teachers who don't get assigned. There are problems at the recruitment and adjunct unionism point. It's an abuse of opposition and democratic education workers, or rather a mobbing app. Teachers and administrators have irregularities in appointment and replacements and rights imposed. There's a problem that's not run as quickly as the state of education, the condition of the spouse, the condition of the medical apology. In addition to inequality in the distribution of education workers according to the districts, there is a problem with paid teachers. There is a problem with the wrong policies in teaching teachers and the unqualified education in teaching teachers. There's school and students without teachers, teachers without students. The constantly modified education system, the education system, the pressure of the central government. Every government coming in, every minister coming in, has a disorder to change the education system. The centrality of the education system, the decision-making mechanisms, has a condition where you do not have the basic components of education, such as teachers, students and guardians. Central exams. There is a problem with the rapid decline of education, the transformation and standardization of public education. There is commercialisation of education, privatisation, handing over to a marketing and competitive understanding. There is a deformation of education and practices by monogamous, deniable and assimilationist policies. Racist, sexist, other educational content. There are millions of students who are not educated in the native language. Boarding schools, boarding schools, cleaning, health, quality issues. There are low-cost, low-end lunches for transport education students, transport centers with no mess halls. There are millions of students out of child poverty, out of education, out of poverty. There are problems with working students, children's brides, under arrest students, absent students, disabled students. Private educational institutions and rehabilitation centres include students who belong to these centres who have no education or have very poor education. There is a growing inequality between the physical, educational, and hardware failures of schools from central to rural, west to east. There is a problem with the lack of pre-school education, the fact that existing pre-school education is done in inappropriate classrooms. There are inadequacies in the guidance service. There is a problem with the founding of school and community ties on economic requirements, not educational. There is such a thing as not budgeting schools or even forcing schools to find their own resources. There are inadequacies and imbalances in the audit, irregularities in the tenders. There is an unconscious use of technology in education under the name of the FATHIH Project. Teachers who turn out to be managers' private mechanics have a inferior and lower education system in vocational high schools. The problems in the Anadolu high schools, imam-hakims, classrooms, 4+4+4 education system continue at all speeds. There are students who have lost their lives, school cleaning, heating issues. An understanding of lynching Kurdish and left-wing students still dominates schools. There's double education and combined classes. As you can see, only the problems described above as the title contain only part of the chronic problems of the educational system. And there's no way we can open every single one of these problem areas here. Instead of solving these problems, the AKP government adds new ones to these problems every day. For example, the classrooms have become a new problem, presented in front of us; even if there is a measure of compromise, it will continue to be a problem in the coming days. And again, the Prime Minister says something every time, no one knows. He said he had to finish six years of universities in eight years, four years of colleges in six years or so, Prime Minister. In 81 provinces, such problems have become inextricable, given the congregation books sent to schools by 81 books. The value of education is just the number of precious friends who are nominally quantifiable to the amount left from the budget. The chronic problems of education can be solved through mechanisms that will ensure the common and democratic participation of all components; this is the construction of a public, free, democratic, secular, secular, liberal, even and critical educational system in the main language. In education, it is not the increase of these numbers and other opportunities; it is the benefit of the whole community without any discrimination and equally possible. Only when an assessment is made on numbers can be said as a nominal, but as it is known, almost half of the public staff, almost 48 per cent of them, work in institutions and organisations belonging to the Ministry of Education. It appeals to 17 million people in terms of the number of citizens it has served directly, and if we add their families to that number, almost all of the community is waiting for service from this ministry. In terms of the number of institutions and institutions, schools and so on, it is far ahead of other institutions and institutions. Look, there's also a reality: that almost 80 percent of education goes to the expense of personnel. The share on the purchase of goods and services is only 8 per cent of the ministry's budget. The total share for investments was 17 per cent before the AKP's power -- in 2002 -- and there is a 9 per cent decline in this situation. It's data education investments that best reflect the budget that is literally set aside for education. Precious lawmakers, the main reason for the increase of education budget by 17 per cent compared to the previous year is the 4+4+4 system, the problems created by this system, as well as school and classroom deficits, particularly because the costs of infrastructure and equipment in schools have increased. The total cost of the 4+4+4 system, which was put into practice in 2012, must also be noted as $40 billion. See, the Ministry of Education will serve about 3 million more students in the 2013-2014 school year than the previous year. An average of 26,000 new classes and an average of 4.6 billion dollars each year during the 2014-2016 period to prevent rapid increase in student numbers per class. However, the ministry has set aside a budget of only 1.5 billion dollars for the class production of 2014. In its budget speech, the Prime Minister compared 2002 to 2013 on the subject of the classroom. Let's see how they train in the village of Pain. He's still in the united classes with 50 or 60 students. Even in the suburbs of Istanbul, that is the case. In the same way, the increase in the number of students in Turkey reveals the need for teachers along with the classroom. The ministry says the current teaching deficit is around 130,000. For a long time, Mr. Secretary had indicated that there would be no appointment for a teacher in February 2014, and even no plans were announced in the process of commission negotiations. Later, however, the plans for appointing 10,000 teachers in February were announced by the Prime Minister. Apparently, the Prime Minister had an election in mind, so he made that statement for him. We are also curious that there is no appointment in 2014. The Prime Minister says, "We will appoint 50,000 teachers." Imagine his lack of coordination, his state of education. It is also unclear how the distribution of majors to be appointed comes within the framework of an educational strategy. Because the Minister of Education doesn't even know about this. Dear lawmakers, there are nearly 400,000 non-assigned teachers in Turkey today. So, what's the need? Add 130 to the need. Well, why can't you make an appointment? The excuse is set: there are no sufficient resources. Now, lawmakers, I will show you the source: toss less gas or squeeze on people, toss less police, to support gangs in Rojava, to reduce the covered allowance and make teachers' appointments. That's more than enough of a source. Turkey is one of the 14 countries in the world that separate the world's highest in the domestic population from defence spending. If only 10 per cent of defence spending is restricted in Turkey, it is possible to hire 400,000 teachers and be assigned on average salary of officers, says the Public Expenses Watch platform. So, what's he doing? In exchange for teacher needs, nearly 70,000 paid teachers within the Ministry are being run as a cheap labor force in an unsafe manner. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if children are dying in this country due to the intentional attitude or negligence of the state, and the Ministry of Education is not making any attempt to explain it, all indicators of education in that country are meaningless. Look, Roboski was a child and a student who had been bombed with F-16. He was killed by 34 of our citizens, including 19 of them -- the Ministry is not making any statement about this -- children and students. By the way, it's been two years since the massacre, and the plane is clear, the pilot is not clear, the order is not clear, there is still no apology. It is not only the children who have been murdered in Roboski, who have lost their lives due to the neglect or deliberate attitude of the state. In the past six years, 59 children have died due to the negligence or deliberate attitude of the state, and 25 of them were elementary school students. Dear lawmakers, another important issue for us is education in the native language. Today, when surveyed by world countries, there are more than 113 official languages in 194 countries, and in many countries such as Britain, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Germany, China, India, Russia, and so on, education and education are found in the main languages. Many international documents stress the importance of education in the native language and indicate that no one can be held back from learning the native language. As a result of the struggle, he entered the school curriculum in 2012 as a Kurdish elective. I want to emphasize that this point, Kurds, by not choosing an elective course, is not a primary language study, but an education in the native language, as a whole, they have expressed it again in their attitudes. First of all, it is a restrictive condition when the course is started in the 5th grade. In addition, the rule of choosing 10 people for the sake of teaching is against human rights and again restrictive. Even if these conditions are met, the problem of teachers and materials that will teach this time arises. Everything's been done so that you don't have to choose that class. By the way, around 900 teachers have completed Kurdish master's programmes for various universities and are still waiting for employment. Thus, Kurdish teachers were added to the problem of non-assigned teachers. The latest package of democracy has again been ignored by Kurds' demand for public education in the main language. In the private schools' upper secondary school area, it was stated that Kurdish education would be partial. You need to get out of this fasit apartment again. For example, let's not go back to our 2002 special course, paid primary language education. In this regard, the government must immediately implement legal and constitutional regulations that will pave the way for public, free education and teaching in the main language. Dear lawmakers, one of the negative consequences of the 4+4+4 system is, of course, that 60-month-old children have started school. In a manner of speaking, this area has been transformed into a real sabbatical. Fortunately, at the beginning of the school year, the Ministry changed its application by changing the Law on Teaching Institutions. Without a doubt, it is also an important problem for the educational system to be centralized. In fact, this is the result of a conscious policy. The goal is to remove education from local, authentic, and autonomous bonds; by making differences and equality invisible, opening education to market across the country, standardizing and controlling educational areas. Every educational environment is unique to the conditions that exist in that environment. Teacher, student, guardian profiles can be shaped according to the political, economic and social situation of the region. In the creation of the education curriculum, these unique conditions must be considered in absolute terms. For example, are the conditions of an educational environment in Çankaya (Kankaya) and the conditions of the education environment in a mountain village of Ağrı (Ağrı)? Therefore, when the results of every central exam are announced, the first ones are known from the beginning; the first ones are known from the beginning; the Hakari is, Şırnak is, Ağrı is, Ağrı is, Bitlis is, and Mush is. The problems of the YOBO, which became the home of assimilation policies, are still under way. Most of these schools are in Kurdish geography, 70% of them. They were told to shut down, nothing so far. Is it also done in many places in Turkey, especially in the villages of Kurdish geography, with a system of education? It's being done. You've seen it in the media, with trucks and tractors and trailers trying to get to schools. What happened is a disgrace. There are kids who go to school with a turd on their arm. Dozens of children lost their lives in accidents. Again, the government has implemented a situation in which the School Milk Project, as in all jobs in all provinces, has been dazzled by the public. Children are seen to drink milk for three days a week and only four months a year. The AKP ruling School Milk Project, which made our children political material, unfortunately, did not plan it. In the same way, the FATHIH Project is a project, like School Milk, which continues and collapses. We don't seem to be able to explain the tender corruption of this project here today because of the time. Dear lawmakers, an important issue is undoubtedly a negative situation involving universities and students. The biggest problem with college students is poverty. Studies show that one of the four students had to drop out of school due to financial improprieties. Again, housing and housing are not being solved. The total capacity of state dorms is 310. Given that the total number of undergraduates and pre-graduate students, except for open education, is about 1,900,000, the Credit and Housing Agency provides only 16 per cent of its current needs. That's a very low number. More than 1.5 million students are abandoned to their own fates. Today, a university student's housing, feeding and transportation costs require a total of 700 Turkish liras. It used to be a big success to win college, and now it's a skill to complete it. In addition to these problems, the SEC, the product of September 12th, is still under way. Current practice also does not give the wronged student the chance to apply to a higher office and correct the sentence. The only option is the administration courts, which is that students can't even afford to sue the place. An important issue is the issue of under arrest students, dear lawmakers. The grounds for arrest are such activities as school notes, books, participation in press statements, protesting the PLO. In fact, it's like not getting a haircut, carrying an umbrella, putting on a bag, pulling a rope... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the issues are the problem. I mean, there's evidence for their arrest. That is indeed a great injustice. It's unfair to see and think of these students as terrorist criminals. Therefore, there is another practice that has been implemented on these students recently. Mr. President, may I have a moment?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0008par0472	No, I didn't give it to anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0007par0473	Well, now, there's another problem area born of valued lawmakers. The students' thesis or studies on Armenians are required. These dissertations haven't been written yet, the students are working. What would that be called?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0008par0474	Yes, Mr. Aksoy, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0007par0475	Obviously, that's re-plugging students. There's no way to accept that either. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0009par0478	What does it have to do with tagging, they're talking about a study, and they're wanted. What's that got to do with tagging?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0007par0479	Why Armenians? Why Armenians?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0009par0480	Because Armenia is claiming genocide.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0010par0481	The first speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0011par0483	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak for the EC PARTY Group regarding the budget of our State Department. I salute the High Council. Naturally, it's impossible to make a horizon tour of foreign policy during a five-minute conversation. So I'm going to bring up some matters that I consider important. The collapse of the Soviet Union over the past 30 years, including 9/11 terror attacks, unprecedented economic crisis and Arab Spring, each of which has changed the paradigm in the world policy scene. The United States, like Saddam Hussein, Gaddafi, Osama Bin Laden, has lost its ability to convince the public to send troops out now that the only names known to the American people have been eliminated. The European Union is already known for its economic difficulties. As such a picture appeared on the international platform, Turkey's role in the world policy scene changed as the EC PARTY governments achieved political stability, economic and democracy. Over the years, it has been subjective to few issues, and the policy for weak states who have to implement decisions elsewhere has been forced to change. Turkey has become an international actor and has begun to participate in decision-making mechanisms for solving regional and international problems. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has begun to play a large international platform in this new position of Turkey. Turkey is not only in its region and in its traditional areas, but is now effectively available in Africa, Latin America, Far East, Central Asia, and many other platforms. Turkey, which has 13 neighbours, has the best relations with its neighbours in the history of the republic. Our relations with Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova, Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Iran and the KKTC are really high. Our relationship with Iraq, where we have a relatively difficult problem, is also moving towards the point where it should be. In a sense, the future was invested in the right decision to be cut off from the leader who had already killed his people in Syria. When a democratic, legal, and human rights administration takes over in Syria, a solid friendship between Turkey and the Syrian states and their nations will be possible for many years. Our relations with the United States and the Russian Federation are exemplary. A new chapter has been opened in the European Union negotiations process and the recession has been resolved. This 50-year-old relationship will witness one of the most important steps, with an agreement that will be signed tomorrow that will allow the visa to be lifted in three and a half years. When Turkey exhibits such an important painting under the EC PARTY governments, it is observed that we will be sad when we look at the main opposition. On Monday, I spoke to the president of the Republican People's Party about the mistakes he had been made by foreign policy manuals. In addition, there is a problem with the Republican People's Party delegations going abroad. A CHP delegation is going to Syria, surrounded by Assad, who has killed 150,000 people. Then another CHP delegation goes to Egypt, taking on coupters. It is impossible to understand how to look at the faces of the peoples of Syria and Egypt tomorrow when they have a respectful government of democracy, human rights and law in Syria and Egypt. It is clear that these killer visits to the Republican People's Party and the tours of coup tourism will never be forgotten. The CHP Vice President is holding a press conference, saying: "We have no ambassadors in many countries. " However, he is also condemning foreign policy. However, he handed over his position as vice president and then took it back again. Mr. Korutrk also forgets that when he was Ambassador to Tehran, he was declared an unwanted man. The wounds caused by Turkish-Iran relations are still remembered during the February 28th period, followed and supported by the CHP. Despite this whole painting, there is a painting that should be proud to be a proud country that has actually become a proud country of Turkish Airlines, money of the Republic of Turkey abroad. Me and all of Turkey are proud of it. We expect the Republican People's Party to be proud of it, and we recommend it. I wish our State Department's budget to be well-funded, and I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0012par0491	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0013par0492	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0012par0493	Mr. orator, in his speech, he has openly disrespected our group, our party, by describing the visits by various officials of our party abroad as "murdering visits." I demand word.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0013par0494	Obviously...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0012par0495	He's clearly defamed and defamed. I demand word.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0014par0496	With a name, too.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0013par0497	It's not an insult, it's... Here you go, Mr. Altay. I mean, no one really has the right to criticize anyone in Congress. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0503	Mr. President, I don't understand why you're confirming the witness's statements.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0013par0504	Come in... come in...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0505	I mean, our visits...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0013par0506	Sir, I'm just saying if there's been any bullying. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0508	Congressmans, I thought I was listening to a story about the foreign policy assessment of the minister who was just speaking, so when I evaluated the situation in terms of the relationship between Turkey and the countries in the region, I would like to say that I am inclined to tell these Parliament stories, such as the stories of Adile Nashit, told to children.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0016par0509	That's what it looks like to you!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0510	I don't know which one to correct what the Hatibi said, but I can tell you that Turkey, the Middle East and the world are not based on the AKP, it's not Recep Tayyip Erdogan; it's one. Which of our 13 neighboring countries has a serious, sincere, mutual trust-based relationship, which we don't see; on the contrary, our neighbouring countries are having virtually complete trust issues. This is also being brought up in several international reports, for example, from the United States, and I'll tell you: the foreign policy of Turkey is increasingly unsupportable by the sectarian and romantic politics of the Erdogan-Davutoglu duo, and it deepens the existing issues in the region. And again, because of the religious policy that you watch on Syria, Turkey is being looked at all over the world by the way of Turkey, which is completely sectarian, uncontrollable, unstable, visionless. There is another belief all over the world: from east to west, from north to south: At the head of Turkey, an uncontrollable, incompetent dictator sits.... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's got wings.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0017par0513	Shame... shame...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0018par0514	Shame... shame...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0515	Moreover, our visits to Syria during this time are the friendship between the rights of Egypt and Turkey...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0019par0516	That's no way to talk to the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0517	His trust is aimed at strengthening historical old friendship. We don't talk to killers, it's your government that feeds the killers in the camps in Turkey and sends them to commit terrorist attacks on other countries.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0020par0519	You can't talk like that if he's a dictator!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0019par0520	The dictator is in Syria!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0521	Do I feed the terrorists in Turkey?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0020par0522	You'll say it once! You don't get to call him a dictator, you don't get to call him a second.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0015par0523	That's what everybody says.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0020par0524	You say it, not everyone says it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0021par0525	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0022par0526	Please... First, a Mr. Ranger...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0023par0528	Mr. President, my predecessor gave false information about me.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0022par0529	Why did Mr. Koruturk give false information, what did he say?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0023par0530	Not only about me, but also about Turkey's foreign policy.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0022par0531	What did he say, Mr. Kurkurk?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0023par0532	I want to explain to you, sir, that there is no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0024par0533	Let him speak when his time comes, sir, like this...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0022par0534	Here you go, Mr. Körkurk. Two minutes for bullying...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0025par0537	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I regret to inform you that in the past two and a half years you've forgotten your professional knowledge that the clerk who spoke before me was a member of law enforcement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party is a member of foreign policy. It's a very bad thing to declare an unwanted person in foreign policy. An unwanted person is tried in other ways before he is declared. In events known as Jerusalem events, the Turkish people should also follow the path of Humeyni. The Iranian Ambassador, who said, "We have not deported Turkey." I was Ambassador in Tehran at the time. I received instructions from my government that the government at that time would not work with sudden and emotional decisions, and we told the Iranian Foreign Office: "Request your ambassador, ask for an ambassador. It took a while, but it was finally done. Iranian Ambassador Bagheri has been withdrawn by his own government. They said, "Please withdraw your ambassador as a government, and appoint someone else." Both ambassadors left their posts without being declared unwanted. It's a very strange thing to say wrong, not know or twist it. Because there's a lot of things to prevent an ambassador from being declared a non grata (unwanted man) on the way, all of which need to be done, and that's what we did at that time. That's what happened to us at this time because the media tried to do diplomacy through it. The last time Hussain Avni Botsalı was deported from Egypt, and it was 60 years ago. So let's not say it wrong, let's know what's right. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0026par0543	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0027par0545	Thank you. Mr. Group Vice President said to our Prime Minister, he spoke of a country ruled by a dictator, and I want to respond.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0026par0547	Mr. Row, is this a taunt?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0027par0548	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0028par0549	It's the one-handed collection of all authority in the dictator's dictionary, isn't it?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0026par0550	Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0029par0552	That's insulting, not teasing.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0028par0553	Look in the dictionary, in the dictionary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0030par0555	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you all a good day's work. So far, our conversations have been going well, and we've been taking advantage of the ideas of valuable speakers. In his speech, our friend, the Vice President of the Republican People's Party, referred to our Group President as the Dictator.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0031par0558	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0030par0559	Unfortunately, in terminology, they often use that word. I'd like to point out that he is the president of a government and a government that has been seriously elected in the Republic of Turkey. So far -- as you know -- we've had three local elections, two Turkish Grand National Assembly elections and two referendums. We came to power with rising votes and growing public support. How can you accept the hero of such a success as a dictator? Today's polls also show that our vote rate is seriously increasing, and the philosophy of the Justice and Development Party, which is headed by that person you call a didictator, is the light of coming back to power and continuing with great success in local governments. I'm returning to you the word you use in that sense. I suggest you speak with more respect. I would like to say again that we must respect those elected in Turkey, especially the prime ministers.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0032par0562	Let's not hear it to the others, just hear it to the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0030par0563	As you know in the world, Turkey is a rising value, as we all know. Turkey is a rising star. The most important reason for this is the work of every member of parliament in our power, every minister in our Council of Ministers, especially our Prime Minister. I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0033par0567	If you look in the dictionary, Mr. President, it's in the dictionary. Take a look at the dictionary, the dictionary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0034par0568	We've seen too many dictators come in elected.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0035par0569	Thank you. [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 EDUCATION OF MILITARY EDUCATION [[Continue]] 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Council for Higher Education 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Measurement, Selection and Placement Central Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the second speaker is Halil Özcan, the Şanliurfa MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0036par0597	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the grounds that the State Department's Financial Budget Bill 2014 will be submitted to the approval of the Supreme Assembly. I salute your high council. 2013 brought important political and economic developments around the world. In this rapid wave of change, the attention of the world is mainly focused on the intense change and transformation of Turkey's mujavir regions. We are in a time when the obstacles to permanent stability in the Balkans have not yet been lifted, and the frozen alliances in South Caucasus cannot be solved. In the Middle East, there are some vital developments that can determine the fate of the region over the next decades. On the one hand, the greatest human tragedy of the 21st century in Syria tends to spread throughout the region, while on the other side a military coup in Egypt, which could affect the fate of the revolutions that Arab people had started three years ago for rights, honor, freedom and bread. Again, for the first time in years, concrete progress has been made in the talks on Iran's nuclear programme, resuscitating talks between Israel and Palestine in the medialisation of the United States, reaching the level of religious and ethnic divisions in Iraq, which will be held next year's general election. Dear lawmakers, we face a picture of sectarian and ethnic identity in the Middle East eroding national identities, fueling conflict on the basis of these distinctions, increasing signs of depression and instability. By ignoring these developments, it is incompatible with the facts, as well as with cruel criticism of Turkey's foreign policy, especially by bringing forth what happened in Syria and Egypt. With its developing democracy, its growing economy and its globally effective primitive foreign policy, Turkey is an example of the envy of the public in this intense wave of change in its region. So, as part of this primordial foreign policy, we opposed the greatest atrocities of the 21st century in Syria against the civilian population. With the same understanding, we reacted to the removal of a legitimate government in Egypt with a military coup. Of course, we could not remain silent in the face of the rise of religious and ethnic tensions in Iraq. It is important that the foreign policy stance is put on at the risk of causing some conjunctural difficulties in our relations with these countries. It should not be forgotten that the value of days, not months, but centuries of diplomacy has always been a winning, primitive attitude, on the right side of history. Turkey is working hard to end this violent spiral, which has cost more than 110,000 people their lives, which has forced half the country's population to leave their homes, making one-third of the population desperate for immediate help. Because we are part of an understanding that forbids sleeping when the neighbor is hungry. Therefore, it is our top priority to relieve the suffering of nearly 10 million Syrian brothers who do not know how to spend the winter. In all such international efforts, Turkey is involved. After the Assad regime used chemical weapons, Turkey was the first country to apply to the United Nations for immediate action. For the first time, the people's free will came to power after the revolution of Tahrir in 2011, in the long history of Egypt, described as the mother of the world. Sadly, this administration was relieved of duty only a year later by a military coup. It is not a coincidence that Turkey is the country that has the strongest reaction to this open attack on democracy. The painful lessons from our own democratic experience are fresh in all of our memories. There have been some who accuse us of interfering with Egypt's internal affairs and of favoring some political groups. We reject both of these allegations with absolute certainty. The protection of basic rights and freedoms for Turkey, friend and brother Egypt requires nothing more than the establishment of a law-based order for the violation of democratic institutions. As 350 million Arab worlds go through a historic phase, developments in Egypt will be decisive in the long run for stability throughout the region. This is why, in Egypt, two brothers follow a policy that protects the benefit of the people. Our brotherhood is strong enough to overcome this difficult time. Dear MPs, Turkey's foreign policy is not simply the Middle East. Indeed, in recent years, a great breakthrough has been made, and from Asia's Pacific to Latin America, even in the most remote part of the world, the Turkish flag has been fluctuating. As I end my words with these thoughts, I wish that our State Department's 2014 budget would bring blessings to our country and our great nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0037par0607	Thank you. The third speaker on behalf of the AK PARTY is Abdullah Eyçükkan, Kırşehir MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0038par0610	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group regarding our State Department's 2014 budget. I salute your high council. We're going through a period in which centuries of regional order collapses, balances of economic and political power shift, and hegemon forces enter deep legitimacy crises. Despite this global crisis atmosphere, Turkish foreign policy has gained historical momentum in the AK PARTI rule, and this momentum has allowed Turkey to become a directional and decisive actor in the regional and global system, shaped by the historic moment of breaking. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the ongoing geopolitical earthquakes have revealed the entire global and regional subsystems, which depend on the presence of domestic actors as objects. World War I and Sykes-Picot, World War II and the Cold War, followed by the Yom Kippur War and Camp David's entire perception of power and sovereignty of the region and the world, paradigms and passive mentality. The end of the Cold War, the failures of Afghanistan and Iraq following 9/11 attacks, the 2007-08 global financial crisis, and the Arab uprisings, Sykes-Picot, destroyed Cold War paradigms and Camp David's order. In this critical period of time, one of history's breaking moments has turned into a Turkish foreign policy, activated as it transforms, and as it becomes active, it becomes a central country. The change was not only the technical infrastructure of our Foreign Ministry, but also Turkey's approach to regional and global issues and its influence. Changeling Turkey has also had a transformative effect. With its increasing appearance in international institutions, its progress on its way to the European Union, its immeasurable presence in the Middle East, its increasing activity in the Balkans, Caucasus and Africa, and most importantly, Turkish foreign policy is not only the most active, but also the most successful period in history. Despite ongoing global and regional earthquakes, Turkey is an island of democratic and pluralistic legitimacy and stability. In the geography of principled politics, oppression, and persecution, the geography of justice and poverty has also been the voice of mankind. Turkey is the voice of humanity in Egypt, of democratic values, of justice in Syria, of Somalia. When we evaluate Turkish foreign policy, not with events, but with processes and context, we see that Turkish foreign policy follows a multi-dimensional agenda, not to save the day, but to build and reinforce principles. Although this global crisis has caused problems between Turkey and some former regular actors, history and politics eventually flow in parallel with Turkish foreign policy, as many examples show. It is not possible for ministers from the perspective of expired paradigms of Turkish foreign policy to understand and not expect those who approach Turkish foreign policy in an event-based analysis shallow, who assess foreign policy developments in a way that is separated from the global and regional context, who show irresponsibleness of making our foreign policy material into internal political accounts, and most painful, who want to trap our foreign policy in a non-smelling and passive framework. The poet described this troubled state of mind well five centuries ago: They will not be able to find him. Those who do not know the secrets of the heavens and the earth. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers will be the lead actors of the new regional and global system, shaped by the historic break-up moment of actors such as Turkey, who have adapted to the spirit of time at this critical time when paradigms are one by one and the old memorizations are one by one, and are continuing to increase its activities around the world. I thank all our ambassadors and staff of the Ministry, especially our Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who has worked very hard in this transformation and development. I wish the State Department's 2014 budget to be better, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0039par0623	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the fourth speaker is Muyettin Aksak.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0040par0626	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the budget of 2014 and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute your delegation. Members of parliament, there is a range of tasks including a clean and habitable environment, quality and sound settlements of the Department of Environment and Urbanism, controlling building materials, improving life standards, controlling environmental activities, establishing national geographical information systems, building housing projects, providing financial and technical support to local governments, protecting nature's assets, increasing energy efficiency. The five-year strategic plan of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, covering 2013-2017, has been implemented. Under this plan, targets have been set in line with the vision of a habitable environment and brand cities, and the 2014 budget for environmental talks has envisioned a total of $2 billion,50m from the central management budget, including $1 billion,329 million for the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, $720m for Tapu and Cadastro General Directorate. Turkey has also become a rapidly developing country in recent years, and our urbanisation rate, 24 per cent in 1927, has now exceeded 72 per cent. This rapid urbanization that we've been experiencing has brought us some problems. Problems such as squatting and illegal construction have prevented our cities from growing healthy. Our cities risk a great deal of loss of life and property in the face of natural disasters due to poor and distorted construction. Again, the loss of national wealth was caused by the lack of the necessary insulations in these structures. In 2012, the law, known as urban transformation, began the transformation of buildings in our cities at the risk of disaster. Our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has taken a major step towards this, and has already passed the number of 200,000 homes it has targeted for 2013. In the 100th year of the republic, our ministry has intended to transform 3.5 million homes and produce disaster-resistant housing that our citizens can safely live in. The success rate in our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's urban transformation efforts during 2013 shows that it will already carry out its 2023 goals. Our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism continues its work at full speed to respond to the expectations of our people. In a year of urban transformation projects, we left behind 750 million Turkish dollars to test our people for a more peaceful, quality, healthy life. As a mayor, I believe that urban transformation must be done very quickly, and I want to thank those who have worked so hard to get the law passed on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, wastewater treatment services have been rapidly upgraded. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, 35 per cent of the population took advantage of this service, and as of this year, it was 72 per cent. Today, the water treatment plant, 145 in 2002, reached 444, and the treatment facilities were tripled. We're celebrating our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which serves in the vision of habitable environments and brand cities. Even if you know that there will be an apocalypse tomorrow, plant the plant in your hand today. These principles, as people of this faith, are curious as to how many pines will be slaughtered in the coming New Year's Eve. The whole community has to be sensitive about this. It's not our custom to curse, but to demonstrate the significance of the event, he uses the expression "Devrill" for those who fall pines, not the matter of three or five trees, but those who are sensitive to the environment except those who say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I invite you to be more sensitive about it. I hereby wish the financial budget of 2014 to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0041par0635	Thank you. The fifth speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is İdris Güllüce, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0042par0638	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization budget. I salute your high council. The problem of environmental and urbanism is one of the most important problems in the world and our country. Humanity, which consumes the world so cruelly, has reached its peripheral consciousness very, very late, but our nation's environmental sensibilities have existed centuries ago. To consume the world and the environment, the sense of protection comes from the depths of our culture. Our man, who blames himself for protecting the law of all creation, has given the world an example of environmentalism. Dear lawmakers, our nation, with the most dynamic population in the world, migrated from villages to cities after the 1950s, causing urbanization very quickly. The rapid migration of migrations has produced a demand for a population increase in housing. Since the public couldn't meet this demand, there's no way to prevent warped urbanization. The widespread spread of warped construction, the fact that our country is in an earthquake belt, and the building stock has not been served technically has forced urban transformation. The difficulties caused by the earthquake require technical conditioning and changes in the legislation, and the ministry has made the necessary changes in legislation due to earthquakes and modern urbanism. The law on transformation is based on the law agreement; it will be supported with the necessary support for the building owners. In law enforcement, local governments are effectively authorized. As part of modern urbanism, the urban transformation has been launched in an effort to bring down buildings that have ended their economic life at risk and replace them with safe and habitable structures. With urban transformation, people are targeted for a happy, peaceful, habitable environment and brand cities. We have to make the urban transformation move by giving power, opposition, hand in hand. The opposition also has important roles here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've been President of the Earthquake Commission last semester, courtesy of our great Parliament. With the experience of the city and the 1999 earthquake, I know that our country's building stock will bore us and upset us. The Structural Control System, which was implemented in our 19 counties until 2011, is now in our province of 81. We have another problem with the fact that the control of building materials has not been done in the past. The building is now under control of materials. Building the Ministry's Construction Construction Information System and building construction in Turkey has been organized, and everyone has been arranged to build in order. Dear lawmakers, the most controversial issue in the world is real estate. It will be transformed by studying the most difficult shared, most diverse real estate. A subject that is available for disagreements and difficult to share has been handled. That's why transformation is a very difficult job. Since our Minister of Environment and Urbanism and Ministry staff have taken on such a difficult task, and... So congratulations to our Minister, the Ministry and the Ministry staff. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0043par0647	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the sixth speaker is Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0044par0650	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. I hereby salute your high council. My dear friends, environmental and urbanism is at the top of the issues that will determine the prosperity of our country in the coming years. Fast urbanization in our country has led to unplanned and warped construction, while on the other hand has led to excessive use of natural resources and pollution. One of the most important acts of our government is the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism established in 2011 to protect the environment and improve urban infrastructure, improve the living standards of cities, ensure sustainable urban development, create habitable facilities. My dear friends, in the field of environment and urbanism, our ministry has a wide range of tasks. In this framework, it is intended to improve the quality of our people's lives in a healthy and planned way, to bring prosperity in environmental conditions to the highest levels. The Law on the Transformation of Areas Under Afet No 6306, specifically for the solution to the problems of squatting and illegal construction, was published in 2012 in the Official Gazette. By removing risky structures in terms of life and property safety with the law, our people will be provided with stronger, more comfortable, more aesthetic structures, allowing them to live in planned areas, solving the problems of transportation, infrastructure, and social utilities. In this area, urban transformations have been launched all over our country, and the work has earned the great approval of our people and the public. My dear friends, amongst the most important studies conducted by our Ministry are environmental pollution, improving environmental standards, fighting climate change. There have been significant increases in the number of sewage networks and wastewater treatment facilities in recent years as a result of support from our Ministry. In 2002, 35 per cent of the municipality's population received wastewater treatment in our country, while that rate increased to 72 per cent in 2013. In addition, 50% of the energy costs of solid waste water treatment facilities are covered by the Ministry. The number of regular waste storage facilities, which are very important to our cities, has reached 69. These facilities serve about 45 million people in 903 municipalities. Our ministry is working hard to address the infrastructure problems of municipalities in our country through the Bank of Province. Large increases in loans and grants to our municipalities from the Bank of Provinces have been made in comparison to the past. These services have been taken to the entire country, regardless of the region and the party's aim for Turkey, while five wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste management, storage facilities, have been provided to the province of Karaman, where I am a MP. In addition, Karaman was given 2,486 dwellings, 4 schools, 5 sports halls, 1 hospital, 1 love house and dozens of service buildings and social utensils from 2003-2013 to 2003. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are the ones in politics, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky, the ones in the sky. A wise man says: "He who is a man is a man who has to let go of a work of art, and the wind blows in the place of a man who does not leave. As I end my remarks, Mr. Prime Minister, who has made another achievement, such as half a million housing productions, and who has stopped being a dream of owning a dwelling, thanking our hardworking and productive minister and our entire government for the budget, I salute your grand delegation with the hope that the 2014 budget will be good.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0045par0658	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the seventh speaker is Ilyas Candy, MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0046par0661	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate in 2014. The budget of the deedu and Kadastro General Directorate in 2012 is 649 million, 273,087,41 euros, and the estimated 2014 budget is 720,642000 euros. I wish them well-being projects. The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate is a long-standing institution that has served for a period of sixty-six years, serving 20 million a year across the country, about 25 per cent of the population. The Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, which has built and preserved the property and rights envisioned by the Turkish Civil Law, is one of the most important functions of the e-state, producing topographical kadastral maps in the country's coordinate system. The institution has carried out many projects from 2003 to 2003 that will contribute to the growth of our country in short, medium and long term. The Tapu and Cadastro Information System, which have been put into place from these projects, delivers the current deed and cadastro information with its short name the TAKBIS Project, in a quick, easy, and reliable electronic environment. Again, production of topographical cadastro maps in precision and homogeneous accuracy with the TUSAGA-Active Project is rapidly happening. The TUSGA-Active Project serves on the basis of more than 4,700° public institutions and private sectors 24/7 hours. As of today, the country's cadastros have been completed and have been presented to the use of our citizens, except 325 units with local problems throughout the country. Also, since most of the kadastral maps that have been made in the past years have been done in graphics and photography, they have lost their ability to practice, as in my constituency, in these areas, cadastro renovations continue. Again, the cadastro studies of places that have been unregistered in cadastro deeds, which are under the government's jurisdiction and savings, are also done by the institution. In addition to these cadastro studies in our country, the process of cadastro renovations of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is also done by the institution. On the other hand, the AK PARTI's power and it is the first time the forest cadastro and the 2/B cadastros have been done by the institution, as well as by my constituency. As a result, 39,240 units were built from the republic's founding to 2003, while between 2003 and 2013, 12,407 units were made as a cadastro in the last decade. By 2003, the average cadastro of 350 units per year was made, while an average of 1,750 units were made after 2003. The graph shows the construction of the annual cadastro from 1924 to 2013. By 1951, almost no cadastros were built, but in 1950, they took a momentum and rose a little bit in 1978, and in 2003, unfortunately, they rose back to the level of the AK PARTI in 2003, and were completed as of 2013. When I was studying at Cadastro High School, I remember, we had a lesson called "stasaruf law" and it came to this class -- God rest his soul -- Tapu and Kadastro General Director Galip Esmer. We asked at the time, teacher, when will this cadastro end? He used the expression: "In twenty years, the children will be finished. " Twenty years later, in the 2000s, we looked at the statements of executives and administrators, and they said, "It will end in twenty years." But the fate of this was changed when the EC PARTY arrived in 2003. Modern projects have been put into practice, and the owners are now able to make sales transactions at the land manager's office, where they are, before they go to the district and the county to sell their properties. As in all areas, in the field of deeds and cadastros, the AK PARTI has brought the services of our citizens, which are difficult and impossible to access. I'd like to thank all Kadastro employees for implementing and contributing projects to the goals set by our government. I wish the 2014 budget to be good for our country, for our nation. I thank all our ministers, especially our Prime Minister, and all those who have done their best in the drafting of the budget, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0047par0673	On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the eighth speaker is Orhan Atalay, Ardahan MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0048par0675	Mr. President, I'd like to discuss the national education budget. On behalf of our children today, I'd like to make a request from the Minister. Dear Hodja, I want a school from you to my child so that it is written on the entry board that the declaration of the Aqif. He says that faith is a precept of knowledge. What ignorant people are we Muslims now in the world. And in its garden are the colorful flowers, and in the branches are the trees of the birds. And most importantly, have environments to explore my child's abilities, so that he can learn wisdom, access to knowledge, analytical thinking, problem solving, the art of ideas, literature, art, aesthetics and rhetoric. Minister, have Training Discipline prepare a new curriculum. Let there be a moral philosophy to teach the secret and limit of freedom, along with a lesson in history that can create a powerful and genuine memory of mankind's adventure. Let it be noted that in life, the wisdom or science alone will not be enough, and that there is a need for conscience and a sense of virtue.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0049par0680	Congressman, aren't you seeing the Minister? I wish you'd talked to them in person!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0048par0681	In life's knowledge, people who are basically parents are equal, just like the teeth of a comb, and every difference is like every color of a rainbow, of course, and every color and language is a sacred scripture, so that my child can show that each person has a full right to live with all its basic rights and freedoms. Mr. Secretary, send a teacher to realize the difficulty of building a human being so he can have the ability to make a virtue out of its dough. I'd like someone who's not a follower of the lord of Frenk, who's not dead, who's never been a skeptic to anyone. Otherwise, he'll see his own mountain as garbage, and the wind will take it away. He's from here and he's from here, and he's got one foot here, and the other one goes around the world. He may be a stranger to this history and to this land, but never a stranger to this place. Let him know that knowledge lives in a world where it's metastasized on financial grounds so that he can learn the purpose of education. Or every year, hundreds of thousands of tons of food are poured into the oceans to balance prices in the world's white hemisphere, and every year, he can't understand the death of millions of children because he can't find a dry bread and a box of medicine in the black hemisphere. Minister, have the teacher teach my child a different history. It's often written in the name of racially ill nationalism, mostly fiction, historical myths, myths, but rather, from yesterday to today for example.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0050par0684	What are fictional legends?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0051par0685	Who built them, didn't they write them down?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0048par0686	Let it be written at the entrance of the book about what war is, and why it is made, and what consequences, and what death, and what destruction, and what suffering it causes.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0051par0687	Don't you have a pointer for that speech?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0048par0688	Let it be noted that the world is basically enough to be a home to everyone, and its resources are abundant enough to feed everyone. Let him also speak of how many tyrant kings throughout history have enslaved men to themselves and turned them into monsters against one another for the sake of each one of them. Dear Minister, leave a book for my child. Let it be written in it that what is real to man is his own hard work, and that the abuse of labour is forbidden. Let the word of my beloved Prophet be fulfilled, who says, "God will burn these hands in hell, and look upon the callous hands of a farmer, who will also have bets on the value of the food, and the sweat of his forehead, and the light of his eye." Mr. Minister, appoint a principal to that school, with compassion, discipline, fatherhood, generosity, saving, consultation, and will, as well as two colors in a pattern. And once in a while, let him speak to the children of the good of killing, and the good of doing it in destruction, and the virtue of working, and the shame of idleness, and the beauty of life, and the ugliness of immorality. Dear Teacher, I just want my child to be a good person. I don't want him to be a porter of information or totalitarian ideology. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0052par0694	Congressman, I'm really curious to know which of those fictional legends are.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0048par0695	Why do you take it personally? Do you have to take it personally?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0053par0696	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the ninth speaker is Fikri Illum, Aldeli MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0054par0699	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Ministry of Education of the 2014 Financial Budget Act. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my words, I wish Allah's mercy to our duty teachers, Derya Şahin, Emine Coshkun, Azize Çelik, Alisha Ergen, Erhan Yaşer and Çetin Kuşbay and driver Bilal Andic, who died in traffic accidents in Malatyaman and Adıyaman. I hereby remember all our fallen teachers with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the responsibility of elected rulings in democratic systems is to work to ensure the future of the individual, society, and the country. Good education is the most important way for each individual, every society, and every country to ensure their future. One of the most important documents to show the government's service priorities is the budget law bill. AC PARTY's 12th budget law bill is also the main feature of education. Because education is the most important element of development in all areas in our party programme. And for this reason, our party believes that the first priority in the allocation of public resources should be to invest in education. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have not only divided the largest budget into education in 12 years, but also increased the budget share of education spending from 9.4 per cent to 18 per cent in 2014. This means about 22.5 per cent of tax revenues in 2014 will be spent on education. This is the record of our Republic history. Thanks to this huge education budget, the education has taken significant steps to repair infrastructure deficits and ensure equal opportunities. I want to give you two examples: In 11 years as the AK PARTY government, we have earned more than 60 percent of the class in 140 years, making 205,000 new classes. Again, we got 408,000 new teachers for our training staff, and when we came to power, we raised our 522,000 teachers to 810,000. Not only that, we're adding 50,000 new teachers to our training staff in 2014. With this budget, we have clearly increased our number of teachers in 2002 to 300,000, easy to say. In 11 years, we bring more teachers into education than many students in Europe. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, with this budget the budget of the Ministry of National Education reaches 55.7 billion, and with the total education budget, 78.5 billion. This shows that both the ministry and the education budget increased more than 7 floors compared to 2002. In addition, our National Ministry of Education's investment budget increased by 31 per cent from the previous year, 100 per cent from 2012, and 400 per cent from 2002. Besides, we educators know very well that the most basic element of education is the teacher. We see every teacher we've brought into our education system as a human investment in quality growth in education. So in our budget, we view the costs and expenses that we spend on our teachers as an investment in our quality of education, not just as a staff expense. As an EC PARTY, we have done very important work at the point of raising the living conditions and levels of prosperity of our teachers. These studies found its most concrete expression in the OECD 2013 Education Review Report, in Turkey, which provides the highest teacher's salary increase compared to 2000. We never see or see enough of the level coming. We will continue to work day and night to prepare a better future for our teachers and for our country. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are very happy to see that the budget and labour spent 11 years in education are turning into products, and I want to say that the next process will be a period of reform in education. As always, this year has been the year to avoid any sacrifice for education, in the hope that 2014 is more successful, more productive, and more fertile than 2013. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to our Prime Minister and to our government, to all of you worthy members of the High Assembly, and to all who have worked to prepare the budget, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0055par0708	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the tenth speaker, Sevde Bayazut Esar, is a member of the Kahramanmarash Congress.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0056par0711	I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the 2014 financial budget talks of the Ministry of National Education. I salute you all. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the funding for education in the 2014 budget has increased by 15.4 per cent from the previous year to 78 billion dollars. The Ministry of National Education is difficult, its responsibility is heavy. We have rightfully high expectations from the Ministry who shaped our children, the higher our expectations, the greater our criticism. As Minister Nabi Avcı put it several times, you do a job in another ministry, you see the results within a few months, it doesn't take much time to correct or share the truth, but it takes at least eight to ten years to see the results in the Ministry of National Education. For this reason, it is often said that political power does not dare to change the infrastructure of national education. However, for 11 years, the EC PARTY government has been boldly, decisively and sincerely signing major innovations and corrections regarding national education. Mr. President, we want valuable lawmakers; generations of thinking, understanding, and problem-solving; generations that absorb democratic values and national culture; generations that respect human rights, share and communicate; generations with strong sense of art and aesthetics, high sense of self-esteem and responsibility, prone to the use and production of science, technology. To raise such generations, we did this in national education: We've moved on to 12 years of mandatory training. With this system, it aims to increase the average training period, to raise a generation of people who are equipped to compete with the world's modernities, to help students explore and develop their interests and abilities, to build education systems into a democratic and flexible structure. The FATIH Project, one of the largest projects of national education, aims to make information communication technologies one of the main tools of the educational process. To ensure the equality of opportunities in education, applications such as free textbooks, conditional education benefits, transport training were introduced. Our boarding schools have been tripled. Classes of 50 to 60 came to class of 30 to 35. Schooling rates have increased at all levels of education, especially when girls are in schooling. The level of net schooling in primary school increased from 90.98 per cent in 2002 to 98.80 per cent in 2012-2013 in education. The net schooling rate in secondary school reached 70 per cent in 2002, at 50.57 per cent in 2012-2013 in the school year. Here, I want to open a parentheses. The SBS exams in secondary school have been lifted. From now on, questions about six basic lessons across Turkey are being prepared by the Ministry and sent to schools and joint exams are being conducted. One of the most important things that has changed in the new era is that we are all living together as parents if something happens and my child fails to take the test. They're taking compensation exams for all of our children who didn't take the exam during the regular exam. The four wrongs now lead to 1 right. The application has been abandoned. As we look at higher education in 2002, the number of universities -- 53 states, 23 foundations -- was 76 in 2002, and from 2003 to 2013, 100 new universities were established, including 51 states, 49, and so the total number of universities were 176. The university student received 45 lira scholarships in his day and now received $480 scholarships and loans, which increased 11 times. There has also been a significant increase in the number of academic staff serving at our universities, while in 2002-2003 it was 76,090 in education, and in 2012-2013 it increased by 130.653 per cent. Mr. President, I salute you with our zeal, with the thought of developing democratic values and national culture as I said, human rights; sharing, open to communication, art and aesthetics, strong sense of self-esteem and responsibility, high in the thought of raising generations capable of science and technology use and production.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0057par0727	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the eleventh speaker is Mehmet Sütın, the deputy of Kahramanmarash.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0058par0730	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the High School Board. I salute you all. Why is education important? Today, when you look at developing countries and the goals of countries in the world, the most important thing is to grow a generation that can produce technology, innovation, new inventions, species, and more or less technically more expensive jobs. Now, interestingly, a study conducted at the University of Toronto in Canada shows that when you increase a country's rate of readers by 1 point, labor efficiency increases by 1.5 points and in non-majority by 1.3 points. Now, in particular, there are two very important examples of the relationship between higher education and development in the world. In the 1970s, the United Nations is sending a delegation to Asia; Sweden is being sent to Asia by a professor named Gunnar Myrdal, who has received an economic Nobel Prize, and it says: "What is the problem with Asia? What is the problem with Asia? This time, about 25 or 30 years later, towards the end of the 90s, the World Bank sends a delegation to Asia, saying, "What happened in Asia?" The name of their report is the Miracle of Asia. This report connects Asia's miracle to the breakthroughs in education, especially in higher education, to the work and models carried out by Asian countries, especially Far East Asian countries. This is one of the most important examples of what international higher education can really do in terms of development. Now, you're looking at the world, moving from elite education to mass education after World War II. So in 5 percent, at the beginning of the century at the beginning of the decade, at the beginning of the 19th century; even in the most advanced countries, only six percent of the population of the ages pass through higher education, seven percent. You're looking at the Second World War, almost 50 percent of the age of higher education, even in developing countries, let alone developed countries. Korea, which began with us, is more or less equal to us in the 60s, today's higher education rate is 75 per cent of the age population, and 50 per cent of it is undergraduate. Now, when you think about it in that sense, Turkey hasn't been able to rise to over 30 per cent of the level of licensing education that it has reached even today. 30% is the rate for developing countries to pass the age population from minimum higher education. Now, if that's the case, there are 29 universities when the board of higher education is founded today, Turkey has 175 universities today. Now, this is an institution that operates with 24 full-time members of the Board of Higher Education for the administration of 29 universities. Then it's reduced to 21 members, nine full-time members, the rest part-time. Think about it: the High School Board, which is responsible for co-ordination of 29 universities, works with only nine full-time members at 175 universities, and the number of board members has fallen to 21. So this building can no longer bear the burden of 175 universities. There must be some changes to be made here. Now, what does the High School do? Now, what he's most concerned about is raising a professor. This is the focus of the event, because if you focus on teaching higher education systems, universities, or higher education boards, if you raise a good teacher, if you train enough teachers, you can raise quality students even if they teach under a tent. Thus, the decision made by the High School Board is the right decision to make in the coming period. It appears to be their second goal of accreditation and quality importance, and then international contacts and international higher education. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...involving Turkey with them seems to be among them. Now, under the administration of universities, I said, the focus is lecturer, but the most important thing here is academic freedom. Now, look, a scientist is like a rare flower growing in a climate in an environment. If you create the atmosphere of science, this flower will bloom...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0059par0740	It's not like they're constantly creating a science atmosphere.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0058par0741	...but if you can't provide the academic atmosphere...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0060par0742	Mr. President, give me a moment.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0061par0743	Okay, I'll give it to Mr. Secret, and then you can ask for it, can't you? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0060par0744	No, no, I mean...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0062par0745	We're already criticizing him. Bravo, Mr. President. That's all you said, that's all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0063par0746	If you can't maintain the scientific atmosphere, you can't make the scientist productive one way or another. For this reason, if you are establishing an administration, a government that will ensure academic freedom, if you have academic freedom at both universities and universities, you can run this business without any hardship, and you can do it in a useful way.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0062par0747	He can use my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0064par0748	Mr. President, let the former Minister of National Education speak.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0063par0749	Now, dear friends, I would also like to present... in particular...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0065par0750	Mr. Secret, thank you, please...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0063par0751	Looks like we're out of time. Well, I apologize, sir. Good afternoon, my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0065par0754	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the 12th speaker is Osman Çakır, Düzce MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0066par0756	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the student's measurement, selection and placement centre. I salute our coven and our nation. Dear friends, under Article 52 of Law No. 1750, we will discuss a centre founded for the purpose of putting students in an upper institution. This board was established to make the entrance exams to universities and universities unicentral. The Law No. 6114, issued on March 3, 2011, was reconstructed with a visionary understanding, considering the needs of the age. The public has become a private budgetary institution with a corporate personality, administrative and financial autonomy. The OSCE conducts 16 different tests, even 20 different types, such as a master's exam, a master's exam, a master's exam, in accordance with the authority and responsibility given by the Agency and tasks of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. It is an important institution for which public institutions and institutions need to serve in their positions of staff and positions, exams to rise in office, exams to placement when necessary, measurement and evaluations required by private legal persons, all of which spend 42 weeks of the year in examination organisation. Over 10 million people take the exams within the year. In any area where demand is greater than supply, order, choice, or choice is a must. The state's offering of jobs and procedures that require ranking, preferences or elections are of one-on-one interest to all segments of society. Thus, it is among the most important and priority duties of public authority that all of these transactions should be done in the most appropriate way to the measure of right and justice. In early 2011, the agency took many steps towards the return of the new administration, especially to the safety of the exam. With Law 6495 published in the 2013 date and 288726 daily, the fact that the questions asked in the examinations won't be used again scientifically, that the fact that questions being known by candidates in the past years are also scientifically dissolving the ability to measure questions, that the creation of a pool of questions is mandatory and that all other international institutions have done to ensure the secrecy of questions, that the questions asked in the examinations should not be explained at the end of the examinations, that they should be excluded from the scope of the Information Act. In addition to all that has been done, the CSI has always been criticised by the fact that due to the needs of time, all exams are based solely on the pre-choice method of choice, absence, error. A move from the development and projections of more modern selection methods of education and national education has begun feasibility studies to organise tests and transition to electronic exams, not only based on results, but also open-ended questions based on the adoption of a process-oriented understanding. A test of 2,700 students took part in 2013, with open-ended questions, the entrance exam for higher education, and the testing of the foreign language exam through the electronic test method, as well as the participation of voluntary candidates. An electronic test for the coming years is seen as the necessity of modern times. All the work needed for this has been included and begun. In particular, in terms of the concept of school-based education on university entrance exams, all mandatory classes have been asked, including the religious culture and ethics course at the 2013 YGS and LYS. So all of the work that's been done here is to produce a fair choice and come to the right conclusions. In this framework, I thank Mr. Omar Dinçer Bey, who has won 38 schools for our Düzce province in one year and prepared the necessary funding for this and Mr. Nabi Bey, who has applied it, and I sincerely wish that the 2014 budget should be a blessing, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0067par0763	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Ercan Candan, Zonguldak MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0068par0766	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the university budget under the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Universitys are institutions that guide the community they live in, and they are locomotives at the development of industry and technology. It is no longer the military forces of the countries, but rather the knowledge they produce, the knowledge they produce at universities, and the integration of this information into technology and society. For him, we are well aware that our universities are in a much greater position in this age of knowledge. Congressmans, we are all aware of the increase in secondary education and schooling during our rule, the intensity of our young population and the greater demand for higher education based on it. Thus far, investments in higher education have made significant progress with the support of the establishment of universities and foundation universities that have been spread throughout our country. As you know, in 2002, the total number of state universities was only 76. In 2013, however, the number of public universities increased to 175.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0069par0770	105, 175, all with foundation universities; the state became 105.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0068par0771	He's up to 175. I'm sorry. In 2002, when our number of students in knitting was 1,250,000, the number increased to 2,700,000, so about 117 percent. This number, 2 million 700,000, is actually more than the total population of many states in Europe. So, when things are being criticized here, a lot of points may have been overlooked, overlooked, but what's important here is to establish the right strategy, in exchange for the increase so quickly. In this decade, of course, we've made a lot of progress, one of which, of course, is the budget. In 2002, our budget reached 17 billion liras when the university's budget was 2.5 billion dollars, which brings about 576 percent increase. There's one thing that's interesting: I looked at patents from college, the number of patents made in 2002 is very interesting; there are only six applications and only two are registered, very interesting. In 2013, it reached 433 applications and 92 registrations. Is that enough? No, it's not enough. We need to study more, and when we look at universities in Western countries and universities in the Far East, it's behind us, but when we look at other world countries, it's very far ahead, it's a sign that we need to work harder. Besides, here we have $11,000 in revenue, and the way we can increase it is to produce products that are worth adding. This, again, passes through patents and, therefore, universities. When we look at our international issue, in 2002, around 8,400, it has now increased to 117 thousand, so there is an increase of 1,281 per cent. We need to make more quality international publications, more patent-based publications, and we know that. We're short on colleges in the first 500, and we need to increase that more, and we're aware of that. We already have the NGO and the Ministry of National Education working on the strategies needed for this. Our academic staff has increased from 76,000 to 13,000 in 2002, and we know that we need to increase it more. By the way, there were some coefficients, and maybe I wouldn't be here today if I had stuck to the coefficient that day as a grad student. It's an injustice, thank God, and we've removed it. I believe that the 2014 budget is a budget that sheds light on society's future, which is the social sensibility. I believe that there is a budget for our college boys, colleges, and the needs of all social communities, which, of course, is within the scope of these possibilities. I want to thank everyone who's been working on the 2014 budget, and I want the 2014 budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I want to pay tribute to our great nation.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0070par0783	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Osman Taney Korutk.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0071par0786	Mr. President, in the first three years of the 24th Legislative Year, when the Foreign Ministry budget was discussed in the 2012 and 2013 budget talks, we expressed our concern as the Republican People's Party today that Turkish foreign policy has fallen into it and is increasingly stuck in it, and we listed our criticism by moving from concrete points. We have brought to the attention of Mr. Minister and the government, whose peaceful structure has been using soft force since its establishment in the vast geography and troubled region of Turkey, is becoming increasingly distant from the weighty identity of the Republic of Turkey, which has served as a deterrent in its commitment, loyalty and stability, and the role of a mediator in conflict. In this context, the foreign policy carried out today without consulting any of the political parties whose group is in parliament with Turkey's Grand National Assembly, without consultation, without a national consensus, with whom Turkey is asked to look at the internal disputes of other countries, cannot be trusted, with statements with heavy expressions of politics and through the media, making emotional and sudden decisions over which it is known to turn from the media, making tough and decisive decisions, not to look at Kusur. Those who are asked to look at the pressure and not to forgive them when they start to turn away from them 180 degrees from their decisions, not to be trusted, have a lot of political decisions, and have a lot of strong and untrusted state. In this context, Mr. Minister's insistence on bypassing the central government of Syria, Egypt, Israel, the central government and taking energy from Kurdistan's regional administration, the European Union, which began with the withdrawal of the Iraqi missile defence system from China, and began with the removal of EU accession from China, despite the fact that we disagree over our regional policies, and that the United States, where we are at times disagreeing with the region's negotiations process, has been increasingly happy, even with the opening of a single chapter, has long since the socialists have been in power, has not been blocked by Turkey's EU membership in the long period, despite the fact that Turkey itself has not been resisting, and has not been resisting many of the EU membership itself, and has not been resisting many of our own nations. None of our concrete questions have been answered by the Secretary of State or the General Assembly in the Plan and Budget Commission. All the minister said was that the government -- especially Africa -- has opened up so many representatives abroad, that the number of foreign diplomatic missions in Turkey has increased so much, that Turkey is numbering among the countries most represented outside, that Istanbul has come to be the number of cities that have the most consulates in the world, that have no logistical significance, as how many times its trips have increased abroad, and how many days it has spoken to, but it does not make much sense on its own. I'm just saying that it doesn't make much sense on its own, because while we're increasing the number of foreign diplomatic missions in the same time period, they've announced that in many major countries like the United States, France, Germany, Italy, the United States, they're going to reduce the number of foreign diplomatic missions by absorptions and job ratings. But none of them intended to present it as a success or a failure in foreign policy. I'm just saying that it doesn't mean anything to itself, because even though the number of foreign diplomatic missions we've opened in the last four years has increased by a percentage of my knowledge, the EXPO 2015 elections in Paris took 68 votes in 2009, and the EXPO had lost the EXPO to Milan with 11 votes, but had been able to win six votes, the embassies we had opened in all of Africa, and most of South America since that date, we've been able to stop the EXPO 2020 vote in Paris on November 27th, and the EXPO vote that we won in the 2020 vote had to fall to 33 percent of the EXPO race and the EXPO race in the EXPO race, which we had been able to fall to the third place under Yekaburg, and the third place. I'm just saying it doesn't make any sense because our entire widespread foreign diplomatic network couldn't prevent the Prime Minister from flying back from Argentina for 16 hours with a delegation approaching 600 people in the hope that we would get 100 percent of the 2020 Olympics. I'm afraid with these figures and rankings, which I have no doubt will be repeated as a sign of the minister's unremarkable achievements, perhaps the graphics of the Turkish Republic embassies spreading greenly over the entire African continent that he will show us from the stand may not allow us to win membership in the UN Security Council 2015-2016 in New York in the coming months. It won't, because these criteria are not the success of a country's foreign policy. It can't be achieved because the number of foreign representatives is not enough to give us back the old and powerful dignity of freedoms, an authoritarian regime, a dissolution of forces, insults to countries whose policies are not agreed upon, and the relationships that have been cut down with these countries or cut down with them. How many people have been injured in mass demonstrations, how many people have been injured in police intervention, how many journalists, how many soldiers, how many students have been in the human rights ministry, how many countries in the field of human rights, what rights and freedoms are in the world, instead of the world scalar, whether the security forces use proportional or disproportionate power in demonstrations, whether it's a hybrid, whether it's a hybrid, whether it's a democracy, how many people have died and how many people have been injured in prison, and how many students have been convicted based on what evidence? The results of the assessments from this perspective, unfortunately, have led to an increasingly negative perception of our country in the international community that none of us want or desire, and as a result, Turkey faces defeats in all its recent international elections, in the races. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, we are still dealing with the government and the Minister's delusional foreign policy practices and adventurous policies, which have not improved. Thus, our criticism continues in its true nature, but in its strength, and in the way that we are concerned about the future of our country. I'm not going to repeat this here. In the few possibilities given to me today, the remaining part of my speech, perhaps I'll give our opinion on what the government should do in this area from now on. Let's start with Syria. With Syria, our border is turned to stone. Al-Qaeda, An Nusra, Iraq-Sam Islamic State and many more radical groups are riding; Turkey is also picking up fighters for jihad; Syria is eating the lungs of its enemies; North Syria does ethnic cleansing in Kurdish and Nusayri regions; Damascus kills and kills each other and innocent people every day. More than 1 million Syrian refugees live on the streets in Turkey, while the rest live in different ways in camps. Now, now, the government has something to do. How many of those 150,000 people have been killed with guns leaving Turkey? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Can you look at the mirror? Of course we are. As we look in the mirror, we look in the face of the Turkish people, we look in the face of the international community, and we look in pride because we are not partners in this policy. Our recommendation to the government is to stop the conflicting rhetoric and action of Syria and contribute to international initiatives to the peace establishment in Syria on the eve of Geneva 2 talks, and to a truly peace-oriented and guiding position, not at all. And it's definitely, and it's definitely a little less talking, or even quieting down. The diplomacy carried out through the media has never been seen to have the right results. That would make a few of our ambassadors more unwanted. On the other hand, the government must immediately cut off support and even contact with these organisations to end the activities of radical organisations, which are certain to be a problem for the region and Turkey, no matter how the game ends in Syria. It should take them out of our borders. Instead of raiding students' homes on December 7, 2013 on the basis of the residence of men and girls, the BBC must raid security homes, which radical terrorist organisations claim to have used in Turkey, on the broadcast of the BBC on live footage. He must not give weapons or armed training to any organization in Syria, nor should he declare to the world that he will not. Al-Qaeda, An Nusra, the state of Iraq-Sham, and others, must be made clear to him that he considers al-Qaeda as a terrorist organization. As for Egypt, the coup at a point when the people came forward with their democratic demands has sadly hampered democracy in this country. What needed to be done was not to cut off contact with Egypt, but to share our bad experiences with Egypt, and to encourage Egypt to return to democracy as soon as possible. He needs to get into this as soon as possible. Our relations with Israel and Egypt are vital to the Middle East. For normalization of these relationships, the government must do something, and above all, it should discuss foreign policy at this point with the opposition, at least with the nation here in Parliament, perhaps in closed sessions. He must share the process with Armenia with us, and he must share it with the representatives of the people. The Prime Minister talks about national will, and in his budget speech here, he talks about national will. Doesn't national will cover foreign policy? In foreign policy, the government's policy was completely cut off from national will. What the government has to do is to do its usual internal policy surveys in a broad way for its policy on Syria and look at its outcome. These polls will also show that Syria does not support the Turkish people's policy. We need to draw Armenian politics here together. We need to organize Cyprus policy together. In that case, these policies are national policy. Then you can say: "Help us out, and when we go, help us out, support us in these policies." We don't know what you're doing, but we see the consequences, and it's bad for us, and it's bad for the country. The government must finally, in accordance with national will, take away its foreign policy from its foreign policy -- as I said just now -- as I said -- to turn it into Turkey's national policy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0072par0809	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is Mustafa Serdar Soydan, Çanakkale MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0073par0812	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. My respects to all of you. How aware are mankind of the catastrophes that environmental problems can cause on its own existence and future, especially global warming? How are we aware that nature's health is the basis of human health? The way to keep future generations alive in a happy and prosperous environment is through the survival of the understanding of development that prevails in developed societies. This is the understanding that improves human quality of life, provides a balanced share of growth and production, providing health, education, social security, housing, balanced and adequate nutrition. Humanity's main purpose is to protect and protect natural habitats, which are rapidly destroyed, where the human influence or the inhuman nature is limited. Today, we're going to tell us how nature is going to sustain life, and how it's going to be destroyed for the sake of the runt by the living, which we're going to inherit, and we're going to leave to future generations. Global warming and climate change threaten our lives. The level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is rising more and more every day. It is expressed by scientists in the next hundred years, where global temperature will rise by six degrees, twenty-five years, and the temperature will rise by 3.5 degrees. As a result of the rise in temperature, life forms on earth will be in great danger of extinction. Global warming is an important dynamic that directly affects the global food problem and invites food crisis. Another important consequence of global warming and climate change is the decline of water resources. This decrease has reached the extent of environmental impacts that will prevent sustainable life. The brutal capitalist understanding, social progress that prevails today will lead to massive ecological destruction, with many projects that will directly affect the land, the air and water in the interest of economic interests and temporary solutions. We don't own nature, we don't just have the right to use it; we don't have the freedom to destroy it as we please, and we shouldn't. Every change we make without thinking about generations to come for the sake of our short-term interests is taking the rights of all other species that have as much right to live as we do. What's the AKP government doing? At the same time, it does not live on the investment and incentive policies needed for renewable energy sources, wind and solar energy that developed countries have made serious investments. On the other hand, the ancient cement factories, iron steel factories, thermal plants, which developed countries do not even allow to build their own country, brutally destroy the environment; the dark clouds that poison future generations leave the geography of which miners brutally punctured; contaminated seas, destroyed vegetation, slaughtered forests, watered streams, contaminated streams, contaminated underground and aboveground waters. Members of parliament, right now, the cry of those who want to protect their lives and their future is rising throughout our country. A cry rises from the Kaz Mountains. Drama is happening at the mining site in the Bayramic village of Lead. He dedicated the air he breathed, the water he drank, the fresh air and water he would leave to the future generations, to the leadless villagers, who had no expectations or demands but to keep their environment. They just want to hear from the authorities that the air he breathes, the water he drinks, the land he eats, will not be contaminated, they want to believe in them. Bircan Light, who lives in Bayramic's village of Lead, is crying out to Mr. Prime Minister to announce his voice, saying, "Listen to our scream." Congressmans, Bircan Light, who lives in the village of Goose Mountains Lead, utters the cry with these words, and I will try to convey it to our elders without touching any letter or word: "What have we done to deserve this persecution?" Why can't we sleep when we put our heads on the pillow? Do we have to listen to this clanging, this tukurtu here? We want them to come in here and see us like this. I'm calling all the authorities from here, especially our Prime Minister. I am also his daughter. I am Sumeyeh. I want to sleep in this village like his Sumeyeh. Let him hear this, my Prime Minister. Let him come and stop this mine. I want to sleep like his daughter, I want to sleep like Sumeyya. All these villagers are crying; grandmothers, grandparents, everyone is crying. What are we going to do, where are we going to go? This landslide, this land, all will descend into the village. When it rains, they'll all come down, in the village, all down into the village. When I wake up in the morning and open the window, it's the first mine I see. What do I deserve to look at this, to see that? Before, I was looking around, looking at nature, and now I'm looking at the mine. When the peasant was the master of the nation, why do you crush us, and what have we done to crush us? Why do you oppress us? Yes, friends, this is the cry of the people living in the village of Bayramic Bullets. From the heart of the Kaz Mountains, and from the eyes of agriculture, from the dark clouds created by the thermal plants of the Plain of Biga, the cry is ringing all over our country. There are thousands of trees and vegetation destroyed in Istanbul's construction of the third bridge, the freeway. Thousands of trees were slaughtered in the Ataturk Forest Farm for the Prime Minister's new office. In Yalova, the trees in the garden of the Walking Mansion, where Ataturk had carried the branches of a linguine tree five metres forward in the sleigh, are cut down for the fences to be built by the garden today. Its ruling and local rulers have become the first political government to destroy thousands of trees to build roads in ODTÜ, occupying the university with hundreds of business machines in a late-night operation. The Prime Minister, who invades the nest of science, who loves green, who is sick of green, explains that the road is civilization. This must be the Prime Minister's idea of advanced democracy and civilization. Now, what kind of civilization is it to travel through the heart of the forest, green, thousands of vegetation, viaducts, highways, divided roads? What kind of civilization is it to cut down those 20-year, 30-year-old trees that clean up the air we breathe and plant saplings instead? Members of parliament, I will cut off the head of a branch sac from my forest. Said Fatih Sultan Mehmet, stressing Ottoman's understanding of the environment, while the republic's understanding is the understanding of the Yalova Mansion to protect the branches of an Ataturk tree. Today's understanding is a sense of growth, urbanization, transportation planning, ignoring the environment only for the sake of Rant. This understanding is the Prime Minister's understanding of civilization, which says, "I am sick of green." In the Ministry of Environment budget talks, I would like to remind Mr. Prime Minister, who is sick of green: it is not civilization to lead into the heart of ODTÜ forests, to the Ataturk Forest Farm, to the backs of Istanbul's Straits, to the Kaz Mountains. Civilization is what Western countries did centuries ago -- weaving iron nets under cities, building subways. Civility is to unite with nature and to build a sustainable life. I wish that power would listen to an African proverb: No one should trust his power, his power, today. As the waters rise, the ants eat the fish as the waters recede, so the water determines who eats the others. Congressmans, as I finish my words, I want you to know that with your understanding of the environment, life and the future, you will either allow violent capitalism to become even more violent, cruel, and destroy our future, or you will leave a green mark for future generations, which is sensitive to the environment and to life, to growth and production, to a stablely shared development. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0074par0827	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker is Sena Kaleli, Bursa MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0075par0830	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in 2014. My respects to the High Council. I salute the people who question, resist, the egalitarian, the libertarian, the natural, the pacifist, God, the human, the love of nature and the power of nature. Dear lawmakers, when it comes to the environment, let's start with the pollution we've created in the Parliamentary General Assembly. I worked at the bus station for 33 years. In my time as a woman working in the bus station, I have never witnessed such blasphemy and violence. I've been threatened, our buses haven't been put in the bus station by an absolute rival of mine, our office has been destroyed. We've earned our rights through law and reconciliation, without disturbing our manners. Well, we had faith in justice that day. Since we have brought justice and an objective attitude in the bus station, no one has seen any need for blasphemy. We've had the peace and blessing of working in a respectable environment. I don't mean to offend, judge, condemn, but I'm saying I don't approve, I don't approve, I don't describe my discomfort. I declare that I do not accept the ownership of men in honour and blasphemy. To this holy roof, we must give dignity not by our votes, by our height, by our bloodlines, but by our words, by our conduct, and by our justice. Power without supervision can't be Parliament without supervision. Let's get down to business. Turkey has three main problems: poverty, corruption, deprivation. These are also the causes of violence in every field. The lack of moral perception, freedom and justice deficits, rights violations of law, lack of knowledge and production, the lack of a double standard sense of democracy. These deprivations also trigger the violence of nature and human beings. The policies supporting the population increase pressure in every sense as environmental and social propulsion. Human history, rights, labor, equality, freedom and property are the history of struggles around the concepts. The new challenge for centuries and centuries to come is the environment and the exhausted resources. In the name of service to man, we consume the land that we have acquired through wars and violence. Dwindling, endangered species, heat growth, air pollution, drought, desertification, hunger, thirst, typhoons, hurricanes are inevitable. Be careful, the most deadly, violent hurricanes have come up with women's names like Katrina, Wilma, Rita. The greater the threat, the greater the violence, the stronger the woman's patience. Women, like nature, are productive and nutritious, and environmental awareness has improved. Hence, they have always been the pioneers of hunger and thirst projects. Man, knowing the balance of nature, has tried to dominate nature. As Tan Oral wrote, pride and success have blinded our eyes, and man has won his battle against nature, but he has lost to nature. In fact, sovereignty is an illusion. Nature does not distinguish between man and man when it gives its power and its blessings, and when it avenges it. Dear lawmakers, the world is a common habitat for all of us. Man has a responsibility to humanity, to the environment and to nature. Nature has as much rights as man, it's a global responsibility. In this context, according to the Rio Convention, where countries are on the side of one another to avoid harming their right to life, the United Nations' Union's Development Goals and environmental sustainability co-operation have been needed. In our country, important developments have been made, such as being a party to international contracts, protecting biological diversity, institutionalising environmental policies and being part of the development plan that you don't like. Today, studies are being organised, analyses are being made, action plans are being made, but policies, institutions, actions are being created when problems arise and are determined by international requirements, and they are also bypassed. The EU Progress Report states that the greenhouse gas target has no inventory, that we have no data and monitoring systems, budgets, R&D, human resources, incentives, lack of integrated water and land management, that there is a governance complex between institutions, that nature and Biological Variety are not compatible with the EU acquish, and there are many incompatibilitys and shortcomings. Large projects have been pushed out of the scope by regulations and zoning pardons for the Coastal Law and the CED exemptions. However, public opinion is being misled by reports that Turkey's environmental policies are praised in the EU Progress Report. One of the most striking examples of all these negatives is my constituency of the city of Burma. And the Chelebi of the Maharajah is only water, and that is what he calls it. Now, it is a furnace. The 1,900 square kilometers of the city's 1,900 square kilometers have been upset, and this is Bursa, the first-degree fertile territory of the city, the Alambaba, Maksempınar and Başköy's water supply to stone, marble and mineral furnaces; the city's lung and oxygen tank, the century's trees to fires; from the wrong ground elections, the groundworks, to the TOİKİEST, which victimized the owners of the world-famous cherries; to the Koz Tree Valley (Applause) thermal plant; (Applause from the ranks ofCHP) to the Newşehir mer; Alaçam, the Sana, the quality of drinking of the water in Sanaşe, the city; to you, to the city's capital, to the city's capital, and to the city's water, and to the city's waste, and to the city's land. He'll be looking for fresh and quality air by now. According to reports, Bursa also passed Dilovaz in terms of air pollution. In Thrace, the plains of Ergene also became a field of poison, not a snare. This view applies to the majority of Turkey. In Samsun, the riverbeds were destroyed by the TOKI. Three thermal plants and dirty games are grave, 700 metres away from Alexander. According to studies, accidents and hidden costs in the production chain of nuclear and thermal plants in EU countries have been found to be greater than all projects at the cost of health problems, environmental and social cost, at the cost of destroying nature. It's not humane to treat sensitive people like terrorists, marginalize them. Dear lawmakers, whether we believe in evolution or the theory of creation, we also ignore our faith by destroying our ecosystem, our natural resources, cultural and historical values, by being irresponsible. It's like heaven, turning the world into hell, heading for the apocalypse. Shall we go to heaven, to destroy the nature that God has given us by the delusion of serving man? Humanity's service priority is to provide fresh air, clean water, healthy food. Turkey must plan for sustainable development, comfortable and environments together, without repeating the mistakes of developed countries. I have so many suggestions, I won't have time. No nature, no us. We can't be Democrats if we don't respect Earth's rights. If we don't cooperate across the border, we'll cause damage to our neighbors. With these thoughts, I wish the budget to be good for our country, for nature and for the Ministry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0076par0848	Thank you. The fourth speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Fatma Nur Serter, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0077par0851	Mr. President, I've been promised the national education budget. However, before I start speaking, I would like to warn the valued lawmakers of the EC PARTY -- in their own words. You want your name to be constantly pronounced as "EC PARTY." However, when you say "AK PARTY," you don't get to be exonerated. The way to be cleared is that the Court's reports will be opened into the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister has released some data on teachers in the budget presentation speech, and Mr. Light has repeated some of them. According to the Prime Minister's data, our current number of teachers is 810,000. However, we're looking at the number of staffed teachers of the current Ministry of National Education, which is the number of norms, which is 9/12/2013, which is the number of staffed teachers we have 735,208, and 2 contractors. Now, the Prime Minister says 810, but 735. Let's move on, it might not be a big difference. The prime minister says we doubled the number of teachers, raised 407,000. Dear friends, the increase in the number of teachers is only 210,593. This is the data from the Ministry of National Education. Now, is 210 thousand a small number? No, it's a good number. It's not a good number. Why? Because in the same period, over 3.5 million students increased in 11 years, 3 million 594,900 euros increase. In contrast, the need for a teacher is 117,815, which is 117,815 teachers if you divide it into a class of 30. Put that away. Plus, the teacher who retired and resigned... received a question motion from Mr. Bigataman of the National Movement Party, which left 157,153 people through resignation and retirement by the end of 2011. If you extend it to today, it's worth at least 180,000. We collect these, the needs of the Ministry of National Education have increased by 290,000 in 11 years, but the appointment of teachers has been limited to 210,593.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0078par0856	Misinformation!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0077par0857	So what is it? Some facts are covered up here. Dear friends, the painting is so clear. If there is a lack of teachers and a lack of teachers, you can't brag about it, we have appointed such teachers. You can't brag about it. Look, it's grown wide, it's 127 thousand, it's now 128,329, the lack of teachers. So let no one build politics over teachers, let the teachers be given what's right, that's our argument, our will, and our demand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission again, in his speech here, divided the time zones into 2 (οther years and years of loss. οf the AKP has declared it years and years before that to be missing. Dear friends, now, let's not say anything, let the numbers speak. Look, I'm showing you a share of budget investments in 1998 for national education investments, why am I showing you this date? Because this is a period of structural change. In the period of structural change, investment budgets are high. Look, he's escaped. 37.33 percent. How many today? 14.26 percent. Now we're going through a period of structural change. So when you say, like, a year or something like that, say the numbers, don't do the numbers, don't do the politics. Now, I'd like to introduce you to another number: 845.407, what does that number mean to you? Does anyone know, Minister? It means a lot to me. This number, dear friends, is the number of missing students in the school year, the number of missing students in the lost years. Only 58,407 students went from the 8th grade to the 9th grade, when 12 years of mandatory training were lost during that period. It's a very large number, you can't keep nearly 17% of 17 million students in the education system, you've lost. This must be a number of lost years, not years, but years. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here's to the PISA exams. There's been a lot of talk, I don't go into detail. I just want to give you one piece of data. See, in 2012, Turkey was the 62th in 65 countries to detect mathematical formulas during the PISA exam. Dear friends, is this a success? This shows the quality of education because PISA is an international test. Speaking of the PISA exam, I'd like to point out that even though I've known this for a year, for the first time in here, I felt the need to explain it; I didn't say it before, because if I did, it would cause an international scandal. Mr. Secretary, in 2012, before the exam was taken, a top bureaucrat of the National Ministry of Education, an undersecretary of the Ministry of Education, put a lot of pressure on bureaucrats who had the questions to be addressed through teachers. However, if this were to be revealed, Turkey would be disqualified from the system and a major international scandal would arise. It was not done by the insistence of those bureaucrats to resist. For further examinations, I'd like to bring this to your attention -- I sincerely believe that you don't know something like this and that you won't be there for him -- and unfortunately, I want to underline that the bureaucrats who show resistance are not on that mission today. If you'd like, I can give you a name later. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, valued lawmakers; now, national education is really -- I'm looking at it with a very objective assessment -- is the area where we fail most, so the area where AKP has failed is national education; there's no doubt about it now. And what is done is immediately broken behind its back. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, is that possible? So, you bring in 4+4, then you start a new reform study. We've removed the SBS. You say, SBS is having babies, SBS is showing up. You're shutting down general high schools, leaving the Anatolian high schools available, by the way. I mean, there's so much to say, there's no time, but it's a failure. So, to cover this failure, you put together an advertising project. This is an advertising project, a promotional campaign, a PR study, FATHIH Project. I give you the FATH Project report card: I was a good teacher in college, I gave you a lot of grades. See, the project was going to end in 2014, it's going to hit 2015, it's not over, maybe it's going to hit 2016. It was intended to distribute tablets to elementary schools and kindergartens, removed from the target. Currently, only 0.48 per cent of current students have been distributed tablets. Only 2.28 per cent of teachers were distributed tablets. Only three percent of remote education centres have been completed, dear friends. In 2 areas you can talk about a relative success, which is only going to be in the middle, 1 in three, which is related to the completed syllabus. Infrastructure studies have been completed, local networking schools have reached 12 per cent, classrooms have reached 33 per cent. So this advertising project, unfortunately, is now out of order, and anyone who knows about education in the world is not going to improve quality by just handing out tablets. The tablet is a helper, a helper tool, but unfortunately it has no power to improve the quality of education.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0079par0869	Maybe the drug is the tablet!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0077par0870	Dear MPs, now, I'd like to share another important issue with you, which is that since the day you came to power -- including when you didn't -- you've constantly described the Ataturkian training as monosymmetry, but you've created your own type of person, starting in kindergarten. Look, this is a kindergarten in Iconya. Minister, please look. You know what these kids do? These kids are being played umre games, and the winner of the game wins tickets to Umre. What's this?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0080par0872	It's a beautiful picture.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0077par0873	Is this a free education?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0081par0874	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0080par0875	So free.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0077par0876	Or is this the only type of training you've created to create a type of AKP-type human being? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you failed in training. I announce that we will vote for the national education budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0082par0879	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0083par0880	You're gonna have to bring it in here and tie it up.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0084par0881	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement that I've been lying to myself or making false statements.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0082par0882	What did he say?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0084par0883	It's wrong to say that by using my name, the lost years, especially in the 1990s, that those years were not the lost years.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0085par0884	The Minister talks, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0082par0885	Here you are, Mr. Elvan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0084par0889	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to talk to you about the teacher. Dear friends, in the ten years before us, the total number of teachers, appointed, is 132,500, and 132,500.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0086par0892	Total number...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0087par0893	Let the Minister speak.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0084par0894	The total number of teachers appointed during the AK PARTY administrations is 408.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0087par0896	Mr. President, there is no such thing, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0088par0897	He teased her, and I'll answer him.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0089par0898	Tell me about the number of students per teacher.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0090par0899	Secondly, the number of students per teacher was 28 in 2002, dear friends. Today, the number of students per teacher is 20. On another subject: Yes, you said years missing. We were paying 87% of the taxes we collected in the lost years for interest, interest. Almost all of the taxes we collected were going to interest, you couldn't talk about a budget, budgets weren't doing their original functions. Let's look at inflation, in what we call the lost years, the average inflation was 77 percent, and the average inflation in our time fell below 9 percent, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0091par0902	Tell me about your grade success!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0090par0903	Another thing: during that time, in the lost years...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0091par0904	Talk about math success!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0092par0905	Looks like the Prime Minister's bagel account!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0090par0906	...the government officer's salary was paid with debts from banks. That's why the necessary savings came out, and that's why the payments for KEY came out.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0093par0907	Where's the bullying in that, what's it answer to?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0090par0908	Finally, dear friends, please do not use Ataturk.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0094par0909	You're driving.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0090par0910	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of this country, is the leader of all of us, but remember that you are the one who removed the image of Ataturk from money, stamps, and state offices, not the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0095par0912	Get over it, get over it!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0096par0913	Let go!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0090par0914	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0097par0916	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0098par0917	Yes, please...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0097par0918	He lied. He said, "I want to fix it." He accused me of lying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0099par0919	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0098par0920	He lied. He lied, did he?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0097par0921	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0099par0922	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0098par0923	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0100par0924	He didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0099par0925	When it comes down to it, it is a separate position of the vice presidents who conduct the session on the Presidential Court regarding the use of 69. The name of Mr. Elvin was only mentioned, and you gave him the right to answer. Mr. Elvan accused Mr. Serter of lying, not to mention the matter he was attributed to him, but to a...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0101par0926	No, he claimed that I was lying, not lying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0099par0927	...and teased our party, two.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0102par0928	No, sir.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0099par0929	Mr. Serter, I demand a personal word. And then I demand a word for teasing our party.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0102par0930	I didn't accuse you of lying, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0103par0931	Look at the records, he didn't say anything like that.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0104par0932	But you can't make two promises because of bullying. So, Mr. Serter...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0933	How can it not be given? Mr. President, no way. He picked on the party separately, Mr. President, wouldn't he?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0104par0934	Mr. Altay, just a moment. Mr. Serter answers on behalf of the party on behalf of the party, both for taunting and for being part of your party.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0936	Mr. President, I don't think it's right that you promised Mr. Elvin. Mr. Serter is going to talk about him, and I'm going to talk about my party. We demand it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0106par0937	But you do, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0104par0938	Mr. Altay, I was going to continue until the Republican People's Party Group's speech was finished, and after giving you a say, I'll have to stop, as soon as I can, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0939	Is that a thing? This is a threat! You can't run this place with threats!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0104par0940	No, I'm just saying...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0941	You can't run it with threats, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0104par0942	Mr. Altay, this is not a threat...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0943	Cut it if you cut it!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0107par0945	Why are you shouting! For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0946	Stay out of this!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0947	I want to tell you something in terms of time, why are you picking up threats?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0948	Mr. President, I don't think it's appropriate for you to do this. So, as a courtesy, let's not take a break until we're done talking to our orators. I said, OK. You said, a man gives his word, if you want it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0949	Mr. Altay, what you're saying, Mr. Altay, will you listen? Then don't mind what I'm saying, you don't understand. There's no threat, I said I didn't mean it as a threat. In terms of time...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0950	Is that going to change by two minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0109par0951	Why did you...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0952	But what you say suits you very well.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0953	What do you mean, Mr. President? Then I'll take a break. You say.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0954	It looks good on you. Why do you take it as a threat?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0955	But why take a break? You say, Mr. President. If the two of you want a word, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0956	This is the General Assembly, you're ready right now to speak up, to fight, to threaten!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0957	I'm just saying, out loud, to get him on the mike.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0958	So you have to change your mind!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0105par0959	Mr. President, I demand a word with Serker.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0108par0960	Yes, I promise Fatma Nur Serter for bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0110par0963	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I don't say a word without specific information and documentation. All the data I've presented to you here are data from official documents, data from the Ministry of National Education, data from the TÜİK (TİK) in the statistical yearbooks of Turkey's Statistical Agency. Every single number is correct and can be found in official statistics. I've been talking about other things, where the President of Plans and Budget Commission has taken it to a whole other level. I've explained that you don't have white years in training, and I don't want to repeat why I'm telling you. The number of teachers, 524,615 in 2002, has risen to 735,208 in 2013, the Ministry of National Education and TİK data, and you have the evidence to prove otherwise. I'm offering you statistical yearbooks. The difference is 210,593, while 210,593 is much smaller than 407,000. So it would mean something if they were to take the matter in a different direction, pretend that I've said things I've never said, that they'd be lying to me, that they'd answer my claims without twisting the subject. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0111par0969	Yes, Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0112par0971	Well, since I'm so short, I'd like to say this. Before you try to give us an Ataturkian lesson, tell that president of yours to take the word "Ataturk" into his mouth.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0113par0973	Don't talk to our president!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0114par0974	He's always remembering.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0115par0975	You're making it a necessity!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0116par0976	Once he gets it, we'll withdraw all our claims. I've never heard Recep Tayyip Erdogan say I am Ataturk. Never heard of it!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0117par0977	No way!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0116par0978	We don't have an Ataturkian course to receive from members of such a party, one; the removal of the picture of Ataturk was very old. There's no one in Turkey who doesn't know. It's an application of the law of that day, two. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0118par0981	That doesn't work for you, does it?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0119par0982	Thank you. [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 EDUCATION OF MILITARY EDUCATION [[Continue]] 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Council for Higher Education 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Measurement, Selection and Placement Central Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 Yes, Metin Lütfü Baydar, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0120par1011	Mr. President, I present my speech to my esteemed colleague, Professor Dr. Fatih Hilmioğlu and tens of thousands of non-assigned teachers of Ataturk's principles and revolutions, who have been imprisoned for 1,700 to 14 days for forgetting their Hippocratic oaths, despite three separate committee reports. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the 2014 budget. Like any budget in the 2000s, 2011, 2012, 2013 is a budget similar to the National Ministry of Education budget. One of the budgets that is now being multiplied by a coefficient without a specific goal, property, and soul is in front of us. This budget, like the previous ones, has a sense of a budget that uses stereotyped, clichéd words and repeats itself every year rather than expressing an understanding of a horizon-building, new ideas. Unfortunately, this budget has no soul. Before the budget, we saw the government's training report from the PISA reports. It wasn't a surprise, either. The PISA data, which has reported every three years since 2003, is passing on information. Data that we've seen over and over for years and we can't digest. You say success, success, the result is obvious. As in previous reports, we have been in front of Indonesia, Jordan, Kazakhstan and many Middle East Asian countries. Among the 64 countries, we failed the average again, and we became 42nd. Thanks to you, we have kept the 40th place for decades, ten years. You can brag about your work!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0121par1015	Where did you get it?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0120par1016	With the educational system that you pride yourself on creating, an average of 15 seconds a day has arrived today; your work, see. The countries we're competing with the education system should read six books per person a year, and we can't get six people to read one book a year! Of course, PISA data will always be negative in the way OECD looks at education. After all, the student who comes to higher education will also come from this generation. The beautiful people of my country, who don't read, who don't know Turkish and world classics, who don't know about human development, who don't know about history, culture, science, science, science, who don't know about science, who have no policy, and who have been reshaped with every minister, who's been abandoned to the mercy of a government, who, hopefully, will take 2 million people from our future generations to the university exam and turn a million people away from the door. And after these disappointments, you can't expect any more starry reports like PISA, and you won't find them. These students can't do such wonders in the higher education system. And if you're thinking of sharing your 2023 vision, don't wait. Higher education is not just a building. It's not just where the staff is filled with classrooms and places. If you shut up colleges, if you digest them, if you want them to swear to yourself, you can't make creative ideas, inventions, inventions, patents from those universities. After all, you'll see the boomerang come and shoot you one day. Although the ministry describes universities as the institutions that govern and transform information in the rapidly changing and changing world, on the other hand, raising young people who make up the future, when we see the budget figures, we understand that they are not an illusion or an illusion. If we take an assessment of the 2014 budget, our total higher education budget is 17 billion Turkish dollars, about $8 billion. One percent of that $800 billion income you're so proud of goes to higher education. You know, you're saying that we're up to 800 billion dollars in national income. You're dividing 1 percent of it into higher education. Let's see how these $8 billion have been distributed to 104 universities: the budget of 37 universities is under 75 million Turkish dollars. Nine of them have a budget under 50 million Turkish liras. There are 25 universities on the border of 75-150 million Turkish liras. There are 30 universities with a budget of 150-300 million Turkish liras. As for the flagships, investments and resources go to the big ones. There are four universities with a budget of over 500 million Turkish liras, with a total budget of 2.5 billion Turkish liras. The budget of these four universities is higher than the budget of 37 universities with a budget of 75 million Turkish liras. The university system is like the budget system. It's pulled from one side. It's attractable, it's transmitting the right resources, so the budget is amorphing. In the end, a college campaign with each of them was just a so-called failure with these budget figures. After this overall assessment, I would like to add another fact that over 80 percent of these budgets are used for personnel expenses, 80 percent, 80 percent of $8 billion employees.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0122par1025	How does 80 percent of the budget go into personnel expenses?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0120par1026	20 per cent of it will be used as a business and investment.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0122par1027	And you're the chancellor, the college teacher! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0123par1028	Dear Light, please.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0120par1029	I'm talking like this because I'm the president, Fikri Bey, because I'm the chancellor. I have more control over the numbers than you do. And the rest is expenses and investments. How will these currents and investments and universities make science, reach their 2023 goals? The painting is in front of you. Because of the injustice of universities in this distribution of resources, new unfair practices will arise. There's a college that's digested from a circumcised budget, don't forget that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, I'd like to address the future of our country, the potential of a grown man, a qualified academic and a researcher. Our total potential is 130,000 academic staff, 17.807 professors, 10,962 professors, 27,385 assistant professors, 41,000 researchers, 30,000 professors and experts in the upper distribution. Only 57,000 of these 130,000 academic staff have PhDs. What do we need? How many doctorate researchers will we need in Turkey's future vision? What measures must be taken to bring them up? What do you do to attract qualified minds to our country and universities, let alone film them, keep them in colleges? What do you intend to accomplish with this budget structure, this pay system, this academic subjective logic, and the culture of biat? Should I talk about the new foundation colleges, like the one you built, without looking at the quality of the foundations that are close to you, or is it September 12th? What mistake can I tell you?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0124par1035	Master, speak slowly.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0120par1036	Dear lawmakers, in 2014, we have a higher education system with 176 universities, 130,000 academic staff, 17 billion Turkish lira budgets. According to you, the Turkish higher education system is developing. With the master's programs you've opened to the foundation universities in every district, with the diplomas you've been given without regular courses, do drugs, get money. You've uncovered a similar, freaky education by logic. Add to this table the unresolved financial and spiritual problems of the academics, and here are the universities that will bring out young people who will compete with the world! Is that possible? Don't make us laugh, guys. Not with this. Dear lawmakers, as Republican People's Party, we have always supported the opening of new universities, strengthening existing universities, but the government and I think differently about universities. First of all, you've destroyed free thinking in colleges. You've created a university that doesn't give a living to someone who isn't like him. The upbringing of free minds and individuals is the indispensable universal condition of universities. Secondly, you haven't been able to create newly founded universities in a metamorphic way. Third, the foundation of our country's development should be destroyed immediately, as well as the BCC, the biggest obstacle to scientific autonomy and scientific production. Fourth, the priority for the independence of universities is budget autonomy. The foundation of independence is fiscal autonomy. Unfortunately, with 2% of the resources, it's not successful either. Dear lawmakers, if I were to make an assessment of the SNS budget, you have transformed an institution that everyone trusts into an institution that no one can trust anymore. I don't know how you're going to get past the public confidence crisis of his 15 trials since the president of the S.E.A.P.D. took office. I'd like to express my love and respect to all of you that the days of getting rid of these AKP governments and budgets that use universities to delay unemployment and bring young unemployment to the highest point in the history of the Republic.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit01spe0125par1042	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0125par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2012 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, it's Recep Gürkan, Edirne Millekli who wants to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Your time has been ten minutes, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0126par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of state universities regarding the 2014 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute the grand jury. Before we begin, I'd like to make a statement. In the session before lunch, Mr. President, our Deputy President of the Group, sent a note to the Republican People's Party Group requesting a lunch break after the talks were finished, and Mr. President himself said, "Okay, that's what we'll do." However, when there was a speaker from the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. President took a lunch break. Mr. President, it is none of your business whether you keep your promise as a loyal Yakut or not, but as Deputy Speaker of Parliament, as someone sitting in the seat of the Veteran Assembly, it is our concern as a man sitting in the seat of the Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, whether you keep your promise or not. That was very wrong of you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, when we accept the fact that education lasts a lifetime, when we consider education as a whole, it is possible to understand the importance of the budget of the Ministry of National Education, the importance of the budget of our universities in higher education. We're discussing a budget that concerns the entire community. We're talking about a budget that should be zero on the margin of error. We're discussing a budget that we're going to change, change the fate of a generation with our steps. I've done it. We're discussing a budget that we should never forget the fact that it's so wrong to say it, that it's not possible to make amends. We're discussing the budget, but Mr. Minister of National Education, it's not in the commission. I've been watching these third budget talks since this morning, since I've been a congressman, for the first time, I've witnessed that no one, no one, but no one, has been sitting in commissions when the national education budget is being discussed, neither the commissioner nor any member of the commission. Dear friends, if we can't even find a seat for the President of the Commission, the representative of the national will, while the budget of national education is being discussed, then woe to us! One more thing has come to my attention: former National Education ministers, former SEC presidents, Mr. Mehmet Satým, have been promised five minutes. I wondered if Mr. Mehmet Sütık had been promised so little because of his ideas against him, or was such a small promise made because he was Minister of National Education on February 28th? Mr. President, considering the valuable lawmakers, the schoolability rate, the inequality of opportunities between the districts, the physical infrastructure failures, the upgrade of the curriculum, the problems of quantity and quality, our problems in education are really huge. For years, we've had a transport training that's been good for a little bit of trouble. This transport training has been transformed into a non-transmitting education in your power. In fact, in some of our provinces, in our western provinces, for example, Izmir was transformed into donkey - carrying training. On this winter's day, it's a shame for these children, it's a sin! [[Applause from CHP rows]] When we consider budget numbers objectively, unfortunately, we can't see that the increases to satisfy our needs are within budget numbers. Dear lawmakers have registered 673 thousand students to universities this year, 370,000 students have applied for dorms, and only 87,000 of them have been able to live in dorms. I'd like to ask the authorities, why haven't you announced the dorm reserve lists, except for a few of them this year? I just want the students I see fit to move into the dorms. What did you say? And do you know what the Prime Minister said to some 283,000 students who couldn't move into the dorm? He said, "Take care of yourself, brother, take care of yourself!" You've increased universities in quantity, you've increased quotas, but you haven't increased dorms at the same rate. Now we're looking for a place for 100,000 people. You've been in the ads, and you're trying to solve the problem with them. These students, who are struggling to survive, who are trying to continue their education under very difficult circumstances, have been cut off by the moral police, Mr. Prime Minister. To him, no one could be innocent; he didn't trust young people. Of course, there's no way to figure out why. And in the name of democracy, an exemplary scene appeared, Mr. Prime Minister said, "We witnessed it in the province of Denizli. The lack of homes presents a variety of difficulties; the young girl, a college student, lives in the same house as the boy. There's no control over this. It's against our conservative democrat nature. We've instructed the governor to do so, and he'll have to be audited in some way. Dear friends, I'd like to ask those who criticize women and men staying together: Is this legally illegal? Don't we trust or trust our own sons, girl or boy? I'd like to ask you which government has lifted adultery from the Turkish Penal Code. Do we know which government removed it? I'd like to share with you some indicators of 11 years of AKP power: TİK, the Ministry of Justice, the figures of our official institutions: the number of divorces has increased by 29 per cent, the number of suicides has increased by 40 per cent, the number of manslaughters has increased by 2.2 times, the number of sexual assaults has increased by 63 per cent, the number of child sexual abuse has increased by 3.8 per cent, and the number of sexual harassment has increased by 4.3 percent, and the interest rates paid by the citizens have increased by exactly 12 times. So, no more politics with this nation, this saint, this great nation, through conservativeity and piety. Your actions are obvious, so fix them first. When the Prime Minister failed to create the polarization he wanted to create through the turban, he went into a dead end. From now on, we'll see that you've put up a policy of polarization on everything but everything. After the travel events, he became obsessed with the students, but the students, no matter what their political opinion, whatever their beliefs, they drew the charisma of the Prime Minister, called the powerful world leader, friends, those young children, they brought his charisma to the ground. Mr. Prime Minister, last week, Edirne was in my constituency. In his speech in Edirne, he used the same phrases as the 100th year of the Balkan wars in 1912-1913: Do you know what someone was saying when the Ottoman army went to rescue Edirne (A hundred years ago) from the enemy? Guys, listen to this, you're gonna have to tell me this everywhere you go. In Edirne, the inhabitants of Edirne said, "Let Bulgaria enter, rather than Enver into Edirne." One hundred years ago, those who did the same thing today, wanted Turkey to be that old Turkey. He continued his speech. Dear friends, 1912-1913 Balkan wars are indeed a tragic phase in Turkish history, the page. Is that true? That's right. Did someone say "Bulgar" instead of "Enver" in Edirne? That's what he said. Who said that? Let me explain to you: At that time, the rivals of Ithiat and Terakki, the grandfather of their descendants today, who were their ancestors, were members of the liberal and conservative party of that time. Who are they? The groom is Ferit Paşa, İsmail Bey, Reza Tofik, Reza Nur. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd like to remind Mr. Prime Minister that Edirne is a city full of people who love her homeland, love her land, love her country, take her out of the word treason; Edirne is a city that has protected Anatolia from the Balkans, from the European attacks to the end, Edirne; a city that is such a city that Edirne is bound to the republic, the Ataturk, the Ataturk principle and revolutions, Edirne. (HPP) Mr. Prime Minister, no Edirneli's grandfather, father, father of any Edirne, has been hiding in battle in the henhouses; he gave his life, gave his blood, and will continue to give it today. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0127par0027	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. I'd like to make a statement because of your explanation, Mr. Gürkan. Mr. Metin Lütfi Baydar has come to the House, saying that Mr. Serter will come to the House, and that he and Mr. Baykal will speak with Mr. Baykal as soon as he arrives, and I've changed the period of recess on his demands three times -- including Mr. Group Vice President. Otherwise, the Republican People's Party would have had a lunch break before they could start talking, Mr. Gürkan. I stand by my word, as you call it, as the Vice President of Ataturk, and I stand by my word, rest assured, and I stand by my word as the Faithful Yakut. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This is a complete break from need. I explained that a little while ago, but I felt the need to explain it again. Thank you. Mr. Row, you have a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0128par0037	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to make a statement about something, if I may. In the last session, Mr. Altay, Deputy President of the Republican People's Party, tell your Prime Minister that he should mention his name. I leave the address of Mr. Altay to your appreciation and to his own. I would like to say that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the Prime Minister of all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, not just ours. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words. We love, respect, and cherish our government elders, not in words. As for the matter of the Ataturk (Ataturk), the name "Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Gazi Mustafa Kemal)" is used in the historical events after the adoption of the last name (Ataturk) and in matters referred to as "Musafa Kemal Ataturk" (Astafa Kemal Ataturk). I'd like to tell you in the same words that we've had a recent experience with this. I want to read the first sentence of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the programme held by the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute in the Memorial Program on November 10th: I am grateful for Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, on the 75th anniversary of his departure from us. On the occasion of this meaningful day, all heroes of the Battle of Salvation continue and so on and so forth. As Mr. Altay said, the name "Ataturk (Ataturk)" is not unusable; it is used according to the most basic of the historical chronological order. I offer this to your appreciation. And thank you for letting me explain.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0129par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0130par0044	It's beautiful.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0129par0045	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0130par0046	Mr. President, I'm so happy that the Prime Minister, very rarely, has mentioned his name. I thank him very much, thank him very, very much.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0129par0047	Yes, thank you. [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 EDUCATION OF MILITARY EDUCATION [[Continue]] 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Council for Higher Education 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Measurement, Selection and Placement Central Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012 Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is twenty-two minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0131par0077	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to share the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the 2014 State Department budget with our beloved nation. As I begin my speech, I salute the Grand Assembly, asking the Lord God to bless our state and our nation with a new budget. Dear MPs, first of all, last Monday, I must admit that I couldn't make any sense of the answers Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu has given him regarding the gene question. Mr. Davutoglu spoke of the late foreign ministers, Fuat Bridgelı, Fatin Rüştülı; of the shroud, and of the execution. As I listened to them, some questions appeared in my mind. One: Why didn't you mention the name of Mr. Abdullah Gul, who was the founder of the AKP, who had been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this power for a long time today? Is Mr. Davutoglu not pleased with Mr. Gül's services at the Foreign Ministry, or has he forgotten?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0132par0080	There's hypocrisy, there's hypocrisy.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0131par0081	When the Minister comes back to the bench, we'd appreciate it if he could express his opinion of Mr. Gul with a word or two. Two: this psychology of fear and death, the shrouds, they told us something. What's all this about? You were the architects of the advanced democracy on the double! Aren't you the Foreign Minister of what the Prime Minister described as a era of art, as the leader of the world, even the Sariculans? Where did this shroud come from, these words of execution? The Internal Service Law does not even have Article 35. You think this is Egypt? Besides, if you're really working for and for the benefit of Turkey, what have you got to be afraid of, Mr. Secretary? Or do you have secret activities which you hide from Us, so that their fear overwhelms you at night? I think if you could answer my curiosity about these two issues, you would free a lot of our fellow lawmakers from similar concerns. Mr. Davutoglu, there is one other issue: US sources have recently announced that chemical weapons were used by the El Nusra front in Syria, and Mr. Logoglu mentioned it in his speech the other day. When it comes to the possibility of Assad, Mr. Secretary, why can't we see a similar answer to this organization now? Why can't you go after El Nusra? At this point, I think it's our right to ask for an explanation. Dear lawmakers, as we have repeated many times, the policies followed by the current State of Foreign Affairs contradict and contradict the traditional foreign policy line of the Republic of Turkey. We, the National Movement Party, address the problems of foreign policy in two different categories. One is the periodal problems caused by the AKP government. The second is structural problems that directly connect the Turkish state. In foreign policy, mistakes can be made based on the dominant conjunctural structure, wrongs can be made. The AKP did so in Syria, Egypt, and in part in Israel. All can be compensated by a simple change of power. However, there have been three issues since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, which are subject to a national quality that exceeds the daily efforts of political parties. The first is Misakimilli, the second is Cyprus, and the third is 1915. Powers come and go, but the state remains. Each party can make some decisions and enforce them in its own way, which is the absolute freedom of the powers, but when it comes to the three national issues that we've listed, there should be a great deal of understanding and absorption. The issues of the nation are far beyond the intervals of time, and rather than in power, they bind the whole state and nation. Hence, a single flaw in the field also results in structural consequences. Honourable lawmakers today believe that both power and opposition are a means of propaganda that is being used to dazzle the masses and to make the concept sound good. I want to make one thing perfectly clear: it can never be reduced to dry conversations, or to a cheap source of populism, which begins with even a single pebble. In that geography, especially in Mosul and Kerkuk, even in Erbul, in Suleimaniye, today, there is a response to the government's policies of destruction, exile and deterrents that have been exposed to the Turkish population who are trying to live. But it seems there is no chain of events to worry about in terms of political power. Look, if there was once a single leaf that moved there, there would have been storms in Ankara. Because it was known that what happened in Mosul and Kerkok will directly affect our southeast. Now, with the AKP's power, the Tufans in northern Iraq do not move a single leaf in Ankara. You know why? Because the AKP is not a mystic, it is a BOP player, it is a Kurdistanr and it is a Barzanici. Dear MPs, you see, for the last week, some of our beautiful Turkey's provinces and districts have been threatening someone by re-enactment of the terrorist organization. Every state, who rebels against it and attacks law enforcement, turns on bullet-struck organizations, the structures. Once again, everyone has to get it into their head. In the basic context of human rights, we welcome all Turkish citizens, whether they are Kurdish or whatever they are, who are trying to preach without breaking their demands, pouring them out, based on external incentives. But terrorists who exploit, exploit and abuse these demands are destined to be destroyed; that's how simple it is. On the other hand, the head of the tribe in northern Iraq, with the power he received from the AKP, he drives the Turkmen out of their homeland, oppresses them, slaughters them, and tries to digest them in their own way. There's no limit to the violent attacks on our Turkmen brothers, the example of fascism they're experiencing. This chieftain is doing an ethnic cleansing in northern Iraq with the head of the 19th century, and so are you. Where's human love? Where's the peaceful attitude? Where is the infinitive of the persecution of the Muslim people? Is it only Turkish hostility that the AKP understands from the concept of peace? I guess it's nothing else. In terms of our national foreign policy, the territorial integrity of Iraq is a building block. After the 2003 military operation, a direct conflict with our national interests took place. Iraq has indeed been torn to pieces and has reached the point of losing its territorial integrity. The autonomous governing structure established in the northern part of Iraq is openly threatening Turkey's sovereignty and national unity. We understand better in the nation that the existence of this structure is so destructive for our country and for our people, with recent events. But what is the AKP doing? (Kurdistan says regional governance, he describes it, he accepts it, so he approves of the tribal chief's death policies there. What's he doing, AKP? In order to get a few thousand more votes from the southeast in the 2014 elections, Turkmen has rebarred Turk, in order to feed its supporters to the signing of the oil agreements. And who opposes this nonsense in the House? I'm telling you, it's just us, the National Movement Party. The nationalists resist pressure, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, like lions. We are in this country reminiscing about the saints of our martyrs, fulfilling our promise to our veterans. Dear MPs, let's come to Cyprus. The Cypriot issue is under very sensitive and serious development, and the AKP government unfortunately does not show the necessary sensitivity in this matter. Finally, for example, the North Cypriot Football Federation was joined to the South Cypriot Federation as a sports club. This is a very serious development, and this matter has been resolved. Furthermore, it is important that hydrocarbon sources move to Europe via the island of Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean, and we are aware of that, but we do not accept the compromise of Turkish Cypriotism for such a gain. Unfortunately, it is clear in light of the data that AKP is inclined to give up Northern Cyprus in exchange for energy lobby demands and/or gas agreements with relatives. The AKP wants to paint the same picture in northern Iraq as in Cyprus. For the AKP, land, national identity, Turkishness, of course, is seen as negotiable and replaceable values in exchange for resources. This head is supposed to be a merchant's head or a mayor's head, but maybe that's all they can do. Cyprus was a case before AKP power, and today it is presented as a problem. Let's make one thing clear: Cyprus, referred to by power and the main opposition, has been resolved through the peacekeeping operation in 1974. Turkey falls to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to gain legitimacy on the international platform, protecting Turkish Cypriot rights and law. Any initiative and initiative that ignores the independence of Northern Cyprus is invalid. Now, I'd like to ask the AKP people from here: Why didn't you get Northern Cyprus to introduce your brothers after Ihvan Bahar? There was a blow, and you were with them; and there was a civil war, and you sent weapons; and they said, "Don't move, you gave cement." E, in the meantime, if you'd only once mentioned the name of Cyprus on your very proud overseas visits, you would have made Cyprus an agenda. Is it such a burden to introduce Cyprus to you? I declare a truth from this place: We will not allow you to negotiate a holy land with the blood of a martyr. Unfortunately, you don't have the caliber to claim the spiritual heritage of Abdulhamit Khan, which you wrap your tongue around every chance you get. You've proven that clearly in both the Islamic issue and Cyprus. Students of the late Erbakan, you are standing here before me. I must say, you're a very lazy class because you always fail exams. The late teacher used to say you skipped class to play ball, it's true. On the one hand is Erbakan the Conqueror of Cyprus, and on the other side is the negotiators, the rescuers, the BOP/s, the ball-busters! So, who is Cyprus still on trial? Only the nationalist Movement Party in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Yes, God rest their souls, we remember the work of the late Erbakan, and the work of the late Ecevit (Ecevit) on the matter of Cyprus, and we remember the good. Since 2004, in the AKP, Greece has established direct and indirectly operational sovereignty on 53 islands, 18 islands and 34 cliffs in the Aegean and Mediterranean, where it has built Greek flags, ports and customs. So, what's the AKP doing? The AKP government is silent. This silence will mean that in the future, we will be able to embed and even formally recognize that this is what Greece is doing. Of course, Turkey does not have an island or a rocky problem, but our sensitivity should be assessed under the name of Ege, marine domination. I don't think they understand the size of the AKP that's being attributed to symbolic and spiritual value because it's all material. Recent quick travels, allelusional explanations are evidence that these issues are not thoroughly studied and that there is no serious perspective. Dear lawmakers, the 1915 issue is also complicated, difficult. During the First World War, half of mankind, perhaps more than half, suffered various sufferings, catastrophes. The Turks and Armenians are two nations in this category. The AKP also falls into the trap of the masked mob. What is this fair memory, Mr. Secretary, which you have recently uncovered? Will that include 518,000 Muslims who were killed by Armenian gangs at the time? We'd love it if you could answer that with a word or two. There are no measures, no counter campaigns being carried out as the very overwhelming 2015 process approaches. The government, which boasts about following a proactive, pre-received foreign policy, has somehow been paralyzed. No one can or should accuse the most honorable nation in history of being a murderer. Praise be to God, there are no genocides, gas chambers, crematoriums, collections and labor camps in our past. In this sense, the West is basically scratching the 1915 issue to cover its own guilt and lighten it. Why? Because there have been those who have done this before us, and the Muslims have done it, and we are not the first. They think they will cleanse their conscience by saying, "We are not the first." If we don't get the diagnosis right, we won't be able to get the treatment right. I hope you've noticed that you missed that on your trip the other day. From here, I want to create a special parentheses for the AKP people: you know, in all Arab and Islamic geography, our Prime Minister is respected, loved, counted. This does not reflect the truth. Do you know where it's from? The academics from the Moorish countries, historians from this Armenian issue, come with documents and find us, finds the National Movement Party. You know what they say? We have applied to you because we know that the AKP government will not step foot in the Armenian issue. Maybe you can do something, they say. So we say, this is not a party matter, it's a state matter. Go directly to government officials and talk to them. But, of course, we also wonder and ask: "What is the reason for your intense interest?" Their response is interesting: there was Ottomans in 1915 and the Ottomans were the property of the entire Islamic world. We too are Muslims, we want to help our Turkish brothers today. This is the case in history, in today, in northern Iraq, in Cyprus, in Western Thrace, in the Balkans, in Crimea, in East Turkistan. Dear lawmakers, we address every opportunity that the AKP government has made and made mistakes in foreign policy. Mr. Secretary of State, who can't handle foreign policy well, can't manage the Ministry well either. Indeed, foreign affairs have become open to the effects of friends, spouses and friends, regardless of the basis of merit in central and foreign appointments. The ambassadors abroad are also rustized. Some ambassadors, the minister, the Prime Minister and the President are not even allowed in private talks during their visits, but their reports are not respected. The AKP's ministers and deputies are now ahead of the ambassadors in the protocol rankings at official events abroad, and it also undermines the image of Turkey in those countries. Here are some of the works of Mr. Davutoglu's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dear lawmakers, what in the name of God did you do with the Lighthouse file from Germany to your Ministry? You were supposed to send him to the Ministry of Justice to meet his requirements. Or did one of the criminals accidentally get this file? You must make this clear, otherwise you will suffer a great deal. We ask that Mr. Davutoglu listen to our criticism and warnings as we end my speech. Mr. Minister should concentrate on his duties instead of computing for the post-Edogan period in AKP. On this occasion, I wish you all the best in our new budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0133par0108	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0134par0111	Let's raise it a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0133par0112	Adding one minute, twenty-one minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0135par0113	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the National Movement Party Group on the budget and final accounts of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate in 2014. First of all, I salute our great General Assembly. Budgets have very important tasks in determining our economic and social future. We've all known that these budgets are socioeconomic and political road maps. Therefore, the fact that there are balanced, accountable, quality, reliable and sustainable budgets is also the most important task of power. But at this point, I'm afraid we can't see the budgets that can offer adequate services and investments that we're talking about. In this context, when we looked at the initial grant from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in 2012, it was 930 million Turkish liras, and at the end of the year, its spending increased by over 100 per cent to $1 billion,939m. Right after that, 2013, when we looked at this year's grant, the ministry was earmarked for $1 billion,830 million. By the time we get to this year, MPs -- we see that 1 billion 329 billion grants have been earmarked for 2014 -- but there is an interesting account here; this year's ministry budget is lower than last year's, so this shows a reduction that has reached about 30 per cent. At that time, the question arises: What environmental and urban service or deedal cadastro service will the ministry give up this 30 per cent discount? I also think that we should be able to find out again on this budget which 389 clean-up vehicles have been distributed again this year, but while we're asking these questions, unfortunately, the Court reports have not been available, and due to the fact that the detailed information has been covered in some way, the MPs of this Assembly cannot use their rights. Dear lawmakers, we face a government that thinks it's environmental by just planting trees instead of being cut down, and declares itself the most environmentalist government. The environmental protection services are only 284 million liras. This grant is only 1/1,000th of the total budget allowance. Now, in this case, it's clear that there is no numerical support behind all the political and Hamasi rhetorics spoken. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, a grant of around 720 million liras has been earmarked to the branch of the Ministry, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. We, first of all, would like to bring up a review of what we said in last year's budgets again in your presence. And he's also the lawmakers: we want to emphasize that environmental services should be continued to be seen to some ministries that have often been restructured and thus have their institutional memories destroyed, and that this unfortunate approach, again, be introduced to these reports here. Today, when we take a look at the Department of Environment and Urbanism of Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Constitution on Agency and Missions, the Deputy Minister has no place here, the Deputy Minister is listed as the highest public servant since the Minister and the Secretary of the Ministry. It stands before us as a front for ignoring the environmental phenomenon as an obstacle to the practice in recent years, such as in other ministries. We all live and see the consequences of reducing the effectiveness of environmental policies. I'm gonna take down some of the ones I care about very much. One is the traffic mess and the pollution of traffic that comes from the unscheduled construction of our cities. Another is the environmental problems caused by intensive land use, due to the rout increases in certain centers. Another issue is the rapid contamination and extinction of all natural resources, especially water, and the environmental problems in everyday life, which eventually result in extreme imbalances in the interstate population distribution. The main reason for the increasing number of problems such as this one and this one is that, lawmakers, environmental approaches are completely ignored. When we look at the 2014 budget, what I just said, I'm afraid we can safely say that this negligent understanding that leads to environmental problems that I'm trying to draw out, has continued in this budget as well, and that will not easily change after that. We also see in some international reports the failures in the environment, urbanism, which are parallel to our findings. What's interesting here is that when we look at the European Union's Turkish Progress Report on 16 October 2013, this report says that much more negative provisions are present and significant assessments have been made. See, this report says that Turkey was replaced in a way that would not be consistent with the requirements of the CED directive of the European Union, including its environmental impact assessment in April 2013, including its short name, the third bridge in Istanbul, and many large-scale infrastructure projects, including nuclear plants in the Black Sea and Mediterranean Region. According to this report, all projects taken into the investment programme prior to 1993 were exempted from CED, and this was provided. In addition, for these projects, our internal legal system has been left aside to get loans from some international financial institutions, which the Prime Minister calls the international interest lobby, and according to the criteria of international financial institutions that are not present there, the CED reports have begun to be prepared. Since the procedures for cross-border consultations have not been harmonised and Turkey has not made the necessary bilateral agreements on the cross-border co-operation with the CED in time, this report also states that the Strategic Environmental Evaluation Director has not yet begun to harmonise. Now, we're having some environmental talks about the European Union, but unfortunately, we're ignoring that. On the other hand, after water quality was transferred from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, there were some problems that were not co-ordinated between the two institutions, and ultimately water management was not effective. The report has identified all of this correctly and objectively, lawmakers. At the same time, it is the main obligation by the ministry to modernize our cities in harmony with the environment and to ensure our people's happier and more peaceful lives, while it seems that it is never the same as the main goal and we are being sold as a builder who understands the happiness of our people only as a housing and business. When we look at Europe, such approaches, such as Spain or Portugal, in some countries that are closer to our economic and social conditions, have been determined to threaten both economic life and social life in the middle and long term, as they consume environmental and natural resources with heavy destruction. It is clear that the supply surplus in the housing stock will undermine the countries both socially and financially. When we look at this metaphor, there is a significant risk and burden on the citizens who are borrowing these dwellings. On the other hand, the construction industry and the construction industry, which makes these dwellings unaccounted for, is in trouble, and finally, the banking sector that finances this system faces financial problems and challenges. At this point, the Ministry has to put aside the madness of building housing without further fueling it, by looking at housing needs, housing supplies, and at the same time, into a scientificly balanced policy between construction sector financing, environmental and natural resources. Mr. President, even though there are valuable lawmakers, we don't see a ministry in the world this far away from environmental problems and environmental issues. It's interesting, the other part, the concept of urbanism, has been run by this Ministry for 11 years. Whether there's construction on it or not, it can be very powerful if there's public land in the first place; there's a notion of urbanism in the form of a busy construction race, such as the rezidas, like the mall, or the hotel, or the home office, by raising its value in construction. It turns out that by taking high precedents of the treasures, we're looking at the concept of having these lands and then building luxury constructions around here, and then, of course, the ambition to sell them at high prices is an environment and a sense of urbanism. Dear lawmakers, we can't discuss and resolve our issues of urbanization or urban transformation here without looking at regional needs, ignoring these needs, and caring for their needs in a sense of justice or balance, especially before we meet the need for housing that emerged in the 2012 Van earthquake. In large cities such as Istanbul and Ankara, it is not possible to boast about an almost virtual pyramid scheme based on increased precedents and a high debt relationship, and to present it as an improved environment and urbanism. Congressmans, we have an international agreement and a framework ahead of us. Here, next week, there will be a draft agreement on the extension of this agreement to the relevant commission. I'm talking about the United Nations Environmental Convention on Climate Change, and the other extension of the Kyoto Protocol, where there are so many, so many jobs that need to be done, our Ministry says that only two months ago, the building and building licenses, which have not been given by relevant administrations, have been doing a job and doing its work, bragging that their permissions have been granted by the Ministry. The interesting thing is, your country is 1/100. You're going to make plans for a 5,000-scale environment, and you're going to claim that you've accomplished that at a rate of 97 per cent, but you're going to show how lame your planning approach is because there's no positive impact on land use decisions. You will also face serious problems in your hierarchical structure of the plan, as these top-scale plans are not compatible with your lower-scale nastique plans or your implementation plans. Members of parliament have announced in the commission that Mr. Ministry is a country that pays more than 60 billion dollars for energy, and that it can't be done without building a nuclear power plant, and that it's not going to be done with the HES, it's going to be destroyed by small streams, it's not going to be allowed to produce less than 10 megawatts, it's going to be asked after 2014. Now, it's almost like a confession and confession, and in the period between 11 years of power, it's hard to explain who will be asked to account for the destruction of the ecosystem, fauna and fluoral structure, the endemic structure that was destroyed by its own definitions to small streams. Now, there's another subject that can't be explained. For 11 years, both our citizens and sensitive scientists in the area of HES have been involved, and as well as our politicians, without listening to the issues and findings from these platforms, will they not be responsible, even morally or politically, even if they are not? Is he not going to come up here and make a statement, Mr. Lawmakers? It also shows how we are involved in a protected field approach to the ministry center of areas that are protected, such as private environmental conservation zones, natural habitats and natural sites, and how we can be investigated and talked about in such a heated way by the Central Commission for the Protection of Nature Assets and the Regional Commission for the Protection of Natural Beings in some provinces. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has a total of 2,095 building control agencies, and within that scope, 24,910 architects and engineers have had the certificate of auditory. Despite all of this, despite all of the building inspectors and organizations, serious problems in this area are still going on, and it is unfortunately not in the immediate scheme of solutions.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0136par0133	They connect the rooms to themselves.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0135par0134	In this context, what kind of public interest is there in taking into the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism the audits of some 11-12 of the architects and engineers' rooms, which are interesting when debates are about how even the ministry's original mission is done? I'd like to hear it from the Minister, frankly. So, all of these policies, in the framework of this strategy, unfortunately, there's no evidence of environmental understanding. Dear MPs, I'd like to talk now about a region of Turkey called Chernobyl. In Gaziemir, İzmir has served a lead factory for nearly sixty years. This factory has been temporarily excluded from activity as a result of the pollution it gives the environment, as a result of our investigations and warnings in the region, but in our questions proposals, we ask different ministries and questions, every institution and ministry has thrown the ball at someone else, not enough and satisfactory answers to the public. There's an indication that there's radioactive pollution here, there's chemical waste, there's dangerous waste here, and we're dealing with serious disposal. But what did the Ministry do? He believes that by applying a fine, he is doing his job here and being left behind in peace and quiet. However, the pollution of heavy metal and radioactive materials is still troubling the region, and even more interestingly, this factory and business have been moved to another area in the vicinity, where they continue to operate. Congressmans, there are some serious problems with the deed and the cadastro, but I'll tell you what's more interesting. Last week, there was a malfunction in the COPS system over three days. The loss of this three-day cycle of capital has been 45 million liras. The information of 55 million parcels of information here, unfortunately, has gone to a lot of trouble in terms of security. Now, there are serious problems with the land sale. Between 2003-2012, MPs sold 240 million square metres of land to 164,834 foreigners. That's a serious number. The Constitutional Court says that the land is a symbol of sovereignty and independence, the impossible element of the state to give up. With these words, I wish this budget to be good for 2014, even though it is inadequate and inadequate.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0137par0141	Thank you. The third speaker for the National Movement Party Group is Zuhal Topcu, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0138par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Ministry of Education, the Board of Higher Education, the Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, and the National Movement Party on the budget of the universities in 2014. I salute you all. A large portion of the government's budget for the Ministry of National Education in 2014 -- as you mentioned -- is reserved for personnel costs only about 70 per cent. We all know there's not enough resources for investment, education, and planning. From this point of view, it seems unlikely for 2014 to solve infrastructure problems, staff and teacher deficits, with the remaining part of the budget. Now, you know there are a lot of problems. Aside from solving these problems, how satisfied are the staff payments paid to teachers who are the driving power and engine of the educational sector, which make up 70 per cent of the national education budget, and how adequate is it to meet the standard of life today? Now, when we look at it a little bit, we get a really funny picture. During 11 years of AKP rule, the teaching profession has lost more dignity than ever before. The teacher, who received 100 per cent more than the lowest public servant's salary in 2002, receives the lowest public official's salary today. The teacher, who received 4% less than a high school police officer ten years ago, is being paid 22 per cent less than these police officers today, we would like to point out. In particular, in 1930 the teacher's salary received 90 liras and 97 quarters of gold; in 2002, a teacher can receive 470 liras and 20 quarters of gold; in 2013 he can receive $1.894 liras and 11 quarters of gold. We would like to consider the opening of the Prime Minister's 2014 budget statement on the bagel opening, and we would like to use the teacher's salaries for years. What we're getting is really sad, we'd like to point out. Again, when the Prime Minister's bagel account is applied to a teacher's family of five over three meals, it's a very funny number. First, in 2002, the price of one bagel is 20 cents. Today, 1 bagel in 2013 costs $1. They say it's $1.40, but we got it at $1. As we look at the increase, we see a 400 percent increase. The price of tea is 10 cents per 2002, now $1; the increase is 900 per cent. The teacher's salary was $470 in 2002, $1.894 in 2013; 303 per cent increase when you look at the increase. Now, when we look at this, it's really pathetic. In 2002, for tea and bagel money, a family that only feeds on tea and bagels has a budget of 28 per cent, while in 2013, it pays 48 per cent of its salary in tea and bagels. Now, as we're looking at it, Mr. Prime Minister, we'd like to ask you in the evening market -- you know -- three of the leftover bagels are given for $1. The second is, why are the minimum wagers and teachers constantly evaluated from the bagel account, and why is it not evaluated from the meat account? We're leaving that especially to the appreciation of the Prime Minister and his power. Now, when we look at the views of teachers who teach 257,000 students in the OECD countries, 1,675 hours and 1.816 hours of mandatory year-long work in Turkey, and still in the combined classrooms, we find a really sad picture again. 97 per cent of teachers have admitted that their professions have lost face in research by Turkish Education-SEN (Turkish Education) and are talking about 67 per cent of their exhaustion syndrome. In particular, 80 percent mention that they can consume between half a kilo and 2 kilograms of meat per month. 82 percent talk about not being able to provide economic and social opportunities for their children as well as for themselves. And especially in cinema, theatre, concerts, exhibitions and social, cultural events, 70 percent of teachers say there's no budget for me to separate. And I'd like to point out right now that when we evaluate students' achievements, especially when we consider being graded in both upper secondary schools and social events at universities, we also want to stress that it needs to be balanced with the family budget. Again, Mr. Prime Minister, in 2003 we want my teacher not to provide his own finances by selling handkerchiefs at the market. How will I pay the rent this month? Or what will I bring home as food this evening? Let him not have to think about it; we will find a way to fix it, to eliminate it. But it turns out, Mr. Prime Minister, is he aware that teachers are still in the same thoughts and concerns over 11 years of their own power? We'd like to ask if teachers are aware that they're most insulted in their time of power. And the Prime Minister gave the teachers a watch in 2003. We also want to emphasize that those clocks stopped in 2011. Again, one of the problems that matters is the unassigned teachers. Really, we need a solution to the problems of our underprivileged young people. In each department, Mr. Secretary also stated that they were projecting specifically for the appointment of teachers, but we can also see that these projections don't work very well. Because, again, as they said, there was a need of 127 thousand. But we also see that they can't come up with a solution. Again, we can see that more than 30,000 paid teachers are on duty, according to their own figures. I wonder if they're in formation. What field do they serve in? We say it's a shame for Turkey that they're still in limbo about something as important as education. We'd like to point that out. Now, when we look, why can't we find a teacher for electives? He's in no position to answer that right now. That's what we want to say. We'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, how do you determine the majors for the appointment? Is there a need analysis for majors? What percentage of the 6,200 class teachers will you receive? What percentage of 5,000 literature teachers will you receive? Do you have 9,000 mentally challenged teachers, did you plan them? You need 5,000 pre-school teachers, what percentage of them will you get? We -- we want to emphasize -- that you need 17,000 teachers for the life of the Prophet, and for the Qur'an or religious culture lessons that came to the agenda with our proposal as the National Movement Party, where do you expect to meet them? Because you've also removed the formation of theology schools. These need to be answered immediately. Now, when you look at the unassigned teachers, they're really upset. We also learned from the press that more than 35 of our young friends committed suicide. There's gotta be a quick solution for all of this. As for counselors, we know that there will be much more need for guidance counselors, especially at 4+4+4, and that was among your emphasises. We're looking at 12,000 now -- again, according to official records -- you need a guidance counselor, but you don't have a guidance counselor to provide them. I wonder if by providing them with the graduates of philosophy or sociology, we can solve this problem... because it's very important that the students be guided, that their professional preferences are important. Why don't you want to work this out? The number of students in Turkey's guidance and research centers is almost 7,400, as one guidance teacher needs to fall 250 students in the world standard. Again, there are IT teachers facing the same problems. Here, you've removed the courses in IT technology, and at the same time, you've brought up formattor teaching. You're teaching them for a hundred and ten hours, and you're hiring them for those teachers. And especially when you were bringing up the FATIH Project, which is a freak with a bunch of crazy numbers that you gave away as the project of the century, but no one had any detailed information, you ignored IT teachers, tech teachers. We'd like to get your attention. And especially, for God's sake, we'd love it if you would inform us about this FATIH Project, which we'd like to point out. You say this will be over in 2014, but it's also in 2014, and we still don't have the concrete data. We're coming to the exam system: one of the most widely played areas in your administration where you changed your name to the TEOG. Now, we'll take this as a transition from basic education to secondary education. Now, our children, especially those who can't take the test, those who have reported the victimization, took their exams yesterday and today. Now, based on our experience here, from our exams, are you still taking these tests through trial and error? We have concerns. Now, these exams were among the data of experts who were not selective and whose first TEOG exam you did had three wrong questions and whose questions were far from selective -- particularly reflected in the press. Now, 1,300,000 students are taking the test. When you look at the school quotas these students are competing in, you can call it 300,000, say 400,000, anyway, you can increase it, but how are you going to do all these positions when you think that all students or half of them get a perfect score? Tomorrow, he'll be back as a major problem area. How will you ensure the validity and trust of these trials? Now, according to one of our teachers, one of these test textbooks has been stolen, and they're asking, "What's the outcome?," and we'd like to get his information. Now, in particular, the Minister had an explanation: some teachers are stingy about grades, some are generous. In particular, how will you ensure the validity and credibility of the grades? How are you going to handle this? How are you going to adjust the difference between private schools and public schools? And how are you going to avoid increasing the number of students who are taking the makeup exams today, if they are more successful in the second term? I don't want to talk about PISA exams, there's already been a lot of talk, and it's been on the agenda for the last two weeks. Again, one of the major problems is open high schools. In particular, in education, we know that those who have crossed the formal education level use open high schools, but according to the data we recently obtained from the website of the open high school, the number of students currently studying in open high school is close to 1 million. Now, from this point of view, normally, students who go to schools, actually go to schools every day, and they can't get their studies together and they can't do full learning. How are they going to learn that with their 20-hour courses in open high school, and how will they reach the 2023 Turkey that captured the age? He's going to the classrooms right now, most of them, and I wonder what kind of painting you're going to have when the classrooms close. In addition, how will young people who are in development, 15, 16, 17 - year - olds, meet their needs in open schools? We'd like you to take these into your thoughts, please.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0139par0165	Schoolroom...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0138par0166	And we don't want to get into the lecture room -- it's been discussed too much. It's going to come up in the future anyway. That's why we want to get past it. And this year, you know, colleges have empty quotas, 118 thousand empty quotas, and that's what happened last year. Then you need to sit down and think. If you think about it, you might find more positive data in your projections. Again, I would like to share the data we received from the press today or yesterday: A university has opened with each of them, and I would like to strengthen it with the words of Mr. Mehmet Sütın. We're saying the same thing, the quality of education is very important. There's a story in the press that we'd like to confirm from Mr. Secretary of State that vets attend courses at the Nursery College at the University of Tunceli, anatomy courses. So we got this from the press, please, and we want to confirm that this is true. Colleges are opening, but do they have enough libraries, communication networks, academic staff? These things need to be taken care of, and we'd like to give them to you. The same problems continue in vocational high schools. Only 27 per cent of the students who took the first exam, who finished their vocational high school, received the right to take the second exam, so they passed the dam. You're only doing two years of vocational colleges for these kids. These need to be rescheduled as soon as possible. These children, especially in mid-level human power, and they've been categorized in various areas of the university, but these children are still blocked, and in order to open their way, this vocational and technical education must be taken into consideration again. When we get to colleges, colleges have a lot of problems, especially salary and equity issues, the centrist structure of the NGO, the assessment of human resources, a lot of things. And we want to get through this fast. In particular, researchers at universities are taken by three different substances, 33, 35 and 50/d, according to Law 2547. Some of these are put at the gates of universities after finishing their Ph.D. You have to take advantage of these kids, they need to be evaluated at any university, after they've done their doctoral studies, so that they don't end up in front of the door after they've finished their doctorates. And we'd like to also point out that the researchers from these three separate substances are to be reassembled under the title of one item. When we come to university professors' salaries, we want to point out that they are now on the verge of poverty and hunger. Especially the salaries of teachers and university students are not that high and affordable. Thirty years ago, researchers' salary was 38 percent higher than engineer's salary, but looking at it now, we can see that it's far below that. The salary of a professor who received 1,500 dollars in 2002 increased by 2.6 times eleven years later, but we can see that the judge's salary, the lawyer's salary, has increased by far more. In 2003, Mr. Prime Minister came to the University of Gazi, where I worked as a professor. In a speech he gave there, I know that you are having trouble watching scientific publications, especially about the rights of the faculty. As the bright minds of this country, it suits you with sacrifice, but the skill is always a compliment. Hopefully, we'll keep that compliment from our teachers.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0140par0174	We love our teachers.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0138par0175	So do we. I didn't get my hopes up then because we didn't, but many of our teachers did. But we also want to say that our teachers have lost hope of AKP power, so let's just say here. The system brought and imposed by the SEC is an ideological, centrist, pushy, and authoritarian system, and we can see that from its last applications. There's a continuous delay in the college student council elections here. Why haven't the student council elections been given a date yet? Are you so afraid of democracy? We'd like to state that. You solved the problems of colleges, faculty, and now you have student councils? You solved labs, libraries, infrastructure problems, student council problems? You solved the quality problem, is that all you have left? Know the areas where you really need to deal with them and act accordingly. Now, finally, when we look at the Ministry of National Education, we can't keep up with the pace of changes made in the Ministry of National Education. How many people have been assigned from within the institution, how many outside the institution in the senior appointments of the Central Agency? That's what we want to know. Is it possible that the Ministry of National Education does not trust 800,000 teachers and is constantly appointed executives outside the national education? Almost 54 of the district chiefs in national education, who are responsible in the provinces, are acting as trustees. And these are 54 of them, who are acting as trustees, especially those who are being harassed by the party agencies and the aide union, and they're being held in contempt. We demand that these be appointed immediately. Again, the funds sent to the school are insufficient, and we'd like to report them. It's made with water and natural gas cards, they don't have any money to pay when they're done, so please ask where the managers are getting it. And how are the curriculum studies in TÜBITAK going? We don't have good hearing about these things. This is going to blow up in your hand, and we want to give you this. You're under the plague of these young people, the plague of mothers' hearts, the plague of academics, the plague of teachers. Stop thinking of education as political material, and please do not apply your own child to the educational community, which you do not want to be done to yourself. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0141par0184	Thank you. Now, Ali Sahin, MP of Gaziantep, who has asked for a word in his behalf.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0142par0187	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in favour of the budgetary budgets for the ninth round of the 2014 Financial Year Bill. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, the earth is going through a historic process of economic and political transformation, and the balance of power between the West and the East is changing quickly. This transformation is also a process that prepares a future that is beginning to rise from the East. Clyde Prestowitz, the Minister of Commerce and prominent economists of the Reagan era, also wrote in 2005 in his book The Great Shift of Weight and Power to the East, which is the Great Migration of Power and Wealth to the East. The western side of the globe prepares itself for a bright future by waking up from a hundred years of plant life and hypnosis, as it enters the process of shrinking with recession, financial crises, demographic setbacks, as the Middle East opens the gates of the fetal age. While the Earth and our nearby geography experience this radical transformation, Turkey emerges as an important economic and foreign policy actor in the world. At one time, even a small hiccup on the Western markets put the economy of Turkey into a coma, and now we have an economy that is very resistant, challenging, and dazzling against the deep economic crisis of the West. The total reserves of the Federal Reserve, which have been announced recently, have reached the record level of our republic's history with $135 billion, 638 million. Turkey has also become the hope of oppressed geography, regardless of religion, language, ethnology, which has expanded from the Middle East to the Far East and to the ends of Africa, with its influence flowing out of 780,000 square miles [780,000 km]. In this sense, the 2014 fiscal year budget, which we live as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be seen not only within our 780,000 square kilometers [780,000 km] of borders, but also as a budget that affects the fates of our Geography, from Gaza to Mogadishu and Arakan, from Cairo to Kabul and Central Africa. Honourable MPs, Turkey is a country that has the potential for global power with its historical missions, its cultural and hereditary heritage from Asia to Europe and Africa. Membership of the United Nations Security Council, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Secretary General of the Association for Islamic Co-operation, which was acquired by the EC PARTY, is a result of the global power potentials that we have in 2015, which we will take over. Outline flights of Turkish Airlines, one of the world's most respected airlines, have risen to 236 points in 103 countries, while the number of planes has risen to 383. With our number of foreign representatives rising to 219, we are in position as one of the world's leading diplomatic forces. Turkey has become one of the world's leading donor countries as a country that increases foreign aid among OECD countries. Now there's a Turkey and its leader, who's been destroying their unresolved perceptions of power by just saying "x," and it's been awakened from hypnosis by the Middle Eastern peoples and Muslim geography. All these and many indicators that I can't count are important steps Turkey has taken towards becoming a global force. Honourable lawmakers, to make good, justice, and justice prevail on earth; to stand by the oppressed, not the oppressors; are the key things that our nation has had since the past. Turkish foreign policy has experienced a radical transformation process with the power of the EC PARTI. The policy of strong, determined, and honorable values was replaced by smooth and compromiser policies. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. This transformation will not be limited to Turkish foreign policy alone. In the near future, we will see that the age of machiavelist foreign policy -- which will be closed -- and the colonial forces will be influenced by those values and principles. I hereby dedicate my speech to the free children of Syria, wishing that our 2014 budget would be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0143par0200	Thank you. Now, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has asked for a statement on behalf of the government. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0204	Mr. President, I stand before you, esteemed MPs, for the approval of the Grand Assembly of my Ministry's 2014 Financial Budget Bill. I'd like to thank all my fellow lawmakers who have spoken on behalf of their groups for their opinions and contributions to our foreign policy. Budget talks are also an annual accounting quality. I am also honored to have the opportunity to consult with you on the course of our foreign policy, especially in 2013. In fact, not only in 2013, but in the transformations of the last decade, it is not possible to understand the new paradigm of Turkish foreign policy without understanding the radical change in the international conjunctive, without realizing the new challenges that this radical change has brought. In particular, the big economy in 2008, the political global crisis in the world has upset political balances, making it necessary for a radical change in economic and political structures that came from the cold war. In parallel with this, especially in 2010, the movement in the surrounding areas, we're looking at the big change in the Balkans in the 1990s, the reflection of it in the Middle East, North Africa, and recently the emergence of some important motions in the Black Sea basin, new social movements. At such a critical time, the global economy political structure has been in a major change, while serious social, economic, political movements have been taking place in the environment, while Turkey has accomplished its miracle of doing a very radical restoration over the past decade. This restoration has three basic legs. One is the strengthening of democratic structures based on the will of the people; the second is a self-sufficient, self-sufficient economic infrastructure that can help fellow and sister communities, as well as self-sufficient, that will allow the country and the nation to stand up in the face of the world honorably. The third is a foreign policy restoration that takes power from this democracy, which aims to expand the possibilities of this economic infrastructure. We see the results of this restoration, and Turkey is becoming increasingly important in the hierarchy of global countries. Now, when we look at it, I'd like to share the developments in foreign policy with you on the four main characters. First, improvements in the European and transatlantic line and the recent lives of Turkey on the European-transatlantic line, over the last year. Our relations with the NATO and the European Union, which we built with long-standing relations during the Cold War, have been deepened during our rule, and our relations with the European Union have been maintained with a perspective on full integration in the negotiations process. Over the past two years, the negotiating process, which has been blocked, has gained a new momentum in parallel with the opening of chapter 20. We're working very hard to open up the new chapters. In Europe, development of bilateral relations with three perspectives, particularly Italy and Spain, in line with the change in the economic crisis in Europe, we're holding intergovernmental conferences with many countries, including Italy and Spain, and in the coming months, we're going to hold these meetings again in the co-chair of the honorary prime ministers. Germany and I have established a strategic dialogue mechanism. We also deepen radical relations with England with two years of action plans. The last step we take in the European Union regarding visa exemption, in fact, contains elements that will radically change European Union-Turkey relations in a paradigm sense. Hopefully, tomorrow, in the presence of our Prime Minister, we will sign the European Union's visa agreement and the Responsibility Agreement. So the dream of 50 years will come true, and citizens of the Republic of Turkey will be able to travel visa-free to members of the European Union, which is in Schengen. This was, in fact, a right we should have achieved together with the customs union. However, as a result of long struggles and difficult negotiations, we are truly pleased to reach a happy end in cooperation with the European Union over the past four years. Hopefully, all these negotiations will be completed within the next three and a half years, and Turkish citizens will be able to travel freely within the European Union. In this framework, especially in the context of Mr. Tuğrul Turkesh's agenda -- I was going to stay on top of it -- but I insist on our Cyprus case -- and I want to stress some issues about our Cyprus case, which is important in terms of the balance of the Eastern Mediterranean, beyond the context of the European Union, and which has come to us from generations. The Cyprus issue and its case have three main footholds in the right course and its right to protect our rights. First, you will hold the psychological advantage in negotiations using a stable but universal language. Unfortunately, by the 2004 Bürgenstock talks, Turkish Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots were cornered on every international platform in the world, and pressured to be treated with guilt. However, in the past decade, especially in 2004, and in the next referendum, the Turkish people wanted peace with an active diploma in which the Greeks opposed peace, which has been constantly active for the past ten years, forcing the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to bring the other side to the negotiating table. As a matter of fact, the talks between 2008 and 2012 were always carried out with this understanding; both Talat and Mr. Eroglu, actively, continued the negotiations. After the election of Mr. Anastasiadis, there have been some expectations, but over the last year these expectations have not been met, and the last, as you know, is two months of intensive negotiations in the framework of the joint statement. Yesterday I was in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Mr. Eroglu and I met in private with the negotiating team and at a dinner with all the political leaders of Cyprus. We have formed a common mind with all the leaders of opposition and power, those who have participated in the negotiations in the past and today. I would like to point out that Turkey's approach and its trust and respect for the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are the greatest power of these talks. Today, more than ever, we are in a right position in negotiations, and the Turkish Cypriots are stronger than ever, in terms of their ability and capacity to conduct negotiations. We say this with honor. Second: recognition of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, international exposure. Yes, again, I am proud to say that the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus currently has diplomatic representations in 20 countries, and most of which have been opened in our time, and the 21st is about to be opened. I expected Mr. Tuğrul Turkesh to thank us here for the observation of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus's Economic Co-operation Agency just two weeks ago, before the debate over the Cyprus issue around a football federation.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0145par0216	It's not helping, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0217	It helps. No, I wish you'd been in that room and watched the Turkish Cypriot Foreign Minister Ozdil Nami (Nami) tell the Cypriot case there in a loud voice, equally with other foreign ministers. Mr. Turkesh, it's a virtue to thank you, don't avoid it, don't avoid it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0145par0219	Mr. Secretary, if anything good happens, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0220	When we came to power, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was not recognised or recognised in any international organisation. It is we who have made the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus an observer member of the Islamic Co-operation Organization, and we are the ones who did it to the Economic Co-operation Organization, and we are the ones who made it participant in the Parliamentary Assembly of Islamic Co-operation. Just yesterday, Mrs.Sibel -- a very elegant lady -- the chairman of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the speaker of parliament, told me that she would be on her way to join the Parliamentary Assembly of Islamic Co-operation. From now on, we will make every effort to make sure that the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is visible, recognized, but in addition, if a people is to be recognised internationally, they will stand on their own two feet, and everyone will respect it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0146par0222	It'll be like Syria. Get your hands off me! Whatever you touched...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0223	Look, what's a third foot? Turkish Cypriots stand with dignity. In the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0147par0224	Stay out of the internal affairs, Mr. Secretary. If you don't interfere with internal affairs, they'll stand.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0225	Excuse me... I've listened to you Mr. Tuğrul, allow me. The national income per capita in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was $4,409 in 2002, which was 14.836 euros under the Greek Cypriot Cypriot administration. Now the national income per capita in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is $15,492, which is about five times that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If you're going to keep a public's head up internationally, first you're going to make his economy strong, you're going to make no one suffer or needy. Here is the power hand of Turkey above the Turkish Cypriot people. Be sure of that, and do not take the kind of advice that we feel will be made in the past. Most importantly, hopefully, with the participation of our Prime Minister in April, it connects with Anatolian Cyprus in another way with the flow of saintly Anatolian water under the sea. That is indeed the mighty. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There's no foreign policy with a porter. You're saying it's indistinguishable...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0148par0232	Being together is about making a move in 74, not laying two pipes there.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0233	I'll get to that. Over there, look...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0148par0234	You can't shut it down screaming!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0235	It's always in our hearts, in our minds...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0148par0236	You didn't do 1 percent of Erbakan.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0149par0237	Listen... listen...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0144par0238	... but you know best how active we are in the nearby basins of neighboring countries and neighbouring countries in the framework of modern international law. When I visited Greece, when I made my first official visit to Greece, I went to West Thrace. Every time I visited Georgia, I went to Batum. Every time I visited Iraq, I went to Musul. I'm really touched by the most important thank-you I've received at this time, and I hope you'll be inspired by him, Mr. Turkesh - Mr. Coral Akşener of our Parliament Speaker, who called me from West Thrace, and I really, really want to thank him, and I want to express my appreciation -- Mr. Minister, thank you for the position of the consul general here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The previous day, in Athens, I had our Western Thracian mufti, elected mufti, meet with the Istanbulian Greeks who migrated from Turkey to Athens, and we had a very excellent conversation about how a common history should be perceived. Our message to all surrounding areas and basins is the message of peace. We've been with everyone around a date, and we'll continue to be. Its second leg is relations with neighbouring countries and regions, apart from the European Union and transatlantic relations. See, there's a special mechanism that we've developed in our time. The like had previously been developed between one or two countries in Europe, but it was not as common as we were. That's high-level strategic co-operation councils, which is the annual regular meeting of leaders as co-chairs. Just to give you an example: a visit to Turkey from Russia at the state level to Turkey wasn't made to our power, but for the first time in 2004, Mr. Putin arrived. Over the past three years, there have been high-level meetings each year due to the mechanisms of the YDSK. He is co-chaired by two leaders. We've built diplomatic networks in the environment basins in the last two months by lifting visas, signing free trade agreements, building three mechanisms. Now, you're doing a lot of heart-to-heart speculation about the relationship with the neighbors, look at the reality. With Ukraine, with Azerbaijan, Russia, we made high-level collaborative councils. The foreign ministers of Iran and Iraq visited us, and I visited them in just two months. I visited Greece, Armenia, and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and the Bulgarian Foreign Minister arrived because of Romanian Prime Minister Marmaray, and the Moldova President, hopefully, will be in Turkey in the coming days next Wednesday. In these visits -- these visits in these two months -- we don't ask about the situation, each visit is a diplomatic move that is crowned with agreements signed in an idea of cooperation that lasts for hours. Now, when we look at trade with neighbouring countries, I've distributed these numbers to you in a pamphlet, visually, and since we've been over this much in the genome, I don't want to go any further on this, but look, let's just go through the basins, like this. The Caucasus and the Central Asian basin were mentioned as a union of Turkish republics until we came to power, but there was not a single international structure that brought the Turkish republics together, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0150par0248	It was a process that coincided with your power.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0151par0249	It has to be active, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0152par0250	The eunuch is your business, yours!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0251	In Central Asia and everywhere, we have also claimed all historical artifacts in the Balkans. Turkey-Georgia-Azerbaijan, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Kazakistan, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Türkmenistan, Turkey-Azerbaycan-Iran, we've established and run the three-way mechanisms. With Azerbaijan, we signed the TANAP (TANAP), which changed all the energy equations in Eurasia, connecting Can Azerbaijan and Turkey with energy not only with heart. We took Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan, Baku-Tiflis-Kars, Marmaray, and Azerbaijan all the way to London. It's not an imaginary foreign policy, it's reality, and we're going to continue to live on these realities. Now, I'd like to come to your fair memory issue. Yeah, I use fair memory. We also believe that as a scientist, history can only be built with a fair memory. We can't solve historical issues behind closed doors, and we can't solve them by keeping the usual memorizations everywhere. Turkey's view of Azerbaijan-Ermenistan relations has three feet: 1) Turkey and Armenia live side by side in respect of each other as two neighbouring countries. 2) The resolution of the issues between Azerbaijan and Armenia and the rescue of the occupied lands of Azerbaijan. 3) No matter where the Turks and Armenians are in the world, as two people who have lived nine centuries together, not 15 or 20 years of problems, but nine centuries of common memories to live as two friendly peoples. I now remember with mercy, as you well know, your Reverend - God rest his soul - during the Azerbaijan-Ermenistan conflicts, our sworn Azerbaijan-Ermenistan brothers met with Petrosyan in Paris, and you organized it. If it wasn't a crime -- which it wasn't -- I remember it with mercy, it was right -- it's not a crime for us to meet Armenia, and it's not a crime for us to meet with Armenia and the Armenians within the framework of fair memory. The Republican People's Party Group knows very well, and you weren't in Congress at the time, but I'm reading to you now the common will of this Grand Assembly in 2005. So in 2005, Turkey submitted a motion to the Grand National Assembly as a partner in power and opposition, calling for the establishment of a joint historical commission, and it was said that reason and logic order Turkey and Armenia not to be afraid to break the taboos with a joint initiative and to be ready to settle all aspects of their history by exposing all aspects of their collective human tragedy. This is the way to prevent the past from darkening our present and future.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0154par0259	What did they say, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0260	It doesn't matter, we defend the truth...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0154par0261	But we don't accept the threat. You say.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0262	No matter who answers, those who trust in themselves defend the truth, defend the truth, defend justice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our measurement and mycia are the logic of others, not the philosophy of others, but our historical, apocalyptic conscience. We don't look up to any nation, but there are very few people with our history experience. Now, as for the Middle East, before we enter other regions in terms of time dilation... we will stand by the Arab people in the Middle East in 2010 when the winds of democratisation under the name Arab Spring blow. Revolutions took place in 2011. In 2012, transitional governments were held, elections were made, 2013, like a nightmare, unfortunately, with recycled powers that came with elections. Now, here, I'll agree to any debate in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but as I said in the general debate, I can't accept the zinhar to claim the coup, not democracy in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, Mr. Turkesh, I've always followed you with a lot of respect...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0155par0270	The most Muslim blood spilled during your time, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0271	Excuse me, excuse me... I followed you very respectfully, but I'm truly ashamed for you today. Look, I'm telling you, you know why?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0155par0273	Shame on you for running the ministry.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0274	You know very well that I refer to Mr. Fatin Rüþtü Zorglu with what contrast. He was given a gene question because of Egyptian policy, and I said that Mr. Fatin Rüştü was a role model and that as a resident of his position, we would never take a blow against democracy, we would never support it. How in God's name can you create a parallel to our President?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0156par0275	I wonder why you never mentioned him.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0276	Now, these are very small tricks. I was his chief advisor when Mr. President was Prime Minister, and when he was Secretary of State, I was with him in all the processes, and I'm proud of that. Our friendship, our friendship goes to at least 30 years. When we work with the same team, we consider it a crime to say anything about everyone we've worked for in line with our common goals. We don't need to say that either. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The reason I remember Fatin Rüştü Zorgış was that he walked with honor to his execution table. And from here, you say fear and the psychology of death. He who knows us knows that we fear no one but God.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0157par0278	You're a eunuch, don't be a eunuch.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0279	When I landed on the streets of Kerkuk, I received dozens of intelligence reports saying there would be a terrorist attack on you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0158par0280	Go to Gaza first. Why don't you go to the Palestinian oppressed in Gaza?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0281	I went down to the streets of Kerkuk and went to the grave of Mr. Necdet Koçak. Once again, when I landed in Libya, the same information came to me. I walked the streets of Libya, the streets of Benghazi, with the people. In Kerbala and Najaf, when I walked between my Shiite brothers and tens of thousands, there were bombs in the corner, somewhere else. In Gaza, when Israeli planes bombed Gaza hospitals and people were martyrs, I walked on those streets. (APPLAUSE) By Allah's permission, we are bound by love to this land, and we have no fear or psychology of death from anyone but God.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0159par0283	It belongs to Ozal. It belongs to Ozal.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0284	Now, this is a requirement of our faith and our politics, the know-it-all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0160par0285	There's no need to be a eunuch, Mr. Secretary, don't be a eunuch, Muslim is dying, Muslim!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0286	As for Syria, Mr. Kuruturk would love to know about Syria, and for once talk about Bashir Assad. Talk about his cruelty. As a former ambassador, how much did you find in the death of 150,000 people... by slandering the state of the Republic of Turkey against this grand bench?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0161par0287	Read the transcripts, the transcripts. Read the transcripts, don't lie there.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0288	Yes, you ask how many people have been killed by weapons leaving Turkey?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0161par0289	I've mentioned Assad 50 times.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0290	Only Assad would be pleased with your speech and Turkey's enemies would be pleased.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0161par0292	Speak up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0162par0293	It's not foreign policy to lie!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0294	Look, Mr. Groverk, you can't insult this state, you can't insult this government.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0161par0296	No one's insulting the government, you're insulting it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0163par0297	There's millions of oppressed people's blood in there.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0298	Look, listen... look at the videos, look at the movies, look at the Aleppo, look at the state of Damascus, is that with the Kalashnikovs, with the air strikes, with the Scud missiles? Did he bomb Turkish planes, Aleppo, Damascus? I'm asking you, who bombed it? Assad has bombed the planes of Assad, which you have defended, the beautiful Aleppo, the beautiful Damascus.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0163par0300	We're not defending anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0164par0301	We're not defending Assad.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0302	Then come here and curse it, come here and curse it, curse it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0164par0303	You can't shock, and you can't intimidate anyone by shouting.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0165par0304	We're not defending anyone.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0305	If two and a half million people are refugees...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0166par0306	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0307	If 700,000 of them are my brothers in this land, we defend the law of those people, we defend them.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0166par0308	Mr. Secretary... Mr. Secretary, correct me, please. Mr. Secretary, we're not defending anyone. Mr. Secretary, take that back.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0167par0309	Wasn't he your brother?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0310	Now, Mr. Turkesh, the same goes for you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0168par0311	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0169par0312	Mr. President, he's insulting us, he's saying what we didn't say.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0313	You're saying that the American resources for chemical weapons are called El Nusra. American resources have two authority, Secretary of State Kerry, President Obama.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0170par0314	Mr. President, who are we protecting? Damn it, whoever's protecting it! No one's protecting me. Damn any tyrants!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0315	Both showed that these chemical weapons were used by the Syrian regime in the most ambitious manner and documents on August 26th and August 30th.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0170par0316	Damn any tyrants. Who are we protecting? Shame! You're slandering me.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0317	An American journalist does not represent America. Our intelligence and all the intelligence of the world know that the Syrian regime committed this crime.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0170par0318	Shame! You're slandering me.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0319	But it's not up to you to clear the Syrian regime, Mr. Turkesh. I can understand CHP, but I can't understand you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0171par0321	Wasn't Assad your friend?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0172par0322	Who's been on vacation with the Assads as a family? Did I take the family vacation?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0323	Those planes... those attacks are killing Turkmen as well.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0171par0324	Who vacationed with the Assads in the basement?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0325	We open our hearts to those Turkmen you defend, which Mr. Shandir knows best, what we do about the Turkmen, what we do.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0173par0326	Did I take the family vacation? Alice, who took the vacation, the family vacation?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0171par0327	Who was on vacation with Assad?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0328	Now, the third leg of our foreign policy is continental scale expansion. You have his papers, too, so I won't go too far. Everyone knows what we do in Africa, what epic embassies we make.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0174par0329	Mr. Secretary, Ahmet Davutoglu wrote it in 2001, read it!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0330	Now, Mr. Korourk, don't worry, if our embassies are opening, if the Turkish flag is flying with honor, be happy. Other countries can shut down the embassy, other countries don't have citizens there, but we have an active human community, they're going everywhere. A foreign minister asked me: "Why are you opening an embassy? " Because our people are active. Wherever they go, we'll open the embassy, we'll be there for them.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0175par0332	What's wrong with opening an embassy? You make the money, you build the building, you throw two officers, here's a ten...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0333	We're the ones who flew an ambulance when a stray shot hit a brother in Kenya. We're the ones who flew an ambulance in Somalia.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0176par0334	They couldn't even pay the apostles' wages.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0335	This shows the power of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Anyone else would be uncomfortable, but you shouldn't be. He also made a statement about us losing his EXPO membership, the EXPO nomination, Mr. Korutuk. He was the ambassador to Paris when we lost EXPO 2015. I'm sure you did everything you could. You do, but you may not succeed one way or another, that's true for all of us. But look, there's a 15-member election result here, 15; in 2013, we competed in 15 international races, and 15 of them were won by huge differences. I won't be able to count the time. This includes the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, the International Maritime Organization. We've won elections in 15 international organisations.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0177par0338	1,500 elections!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0153par0339	The power of the Republic of Turkey has now exceeded its borders and the borders of the region. The State Department will continue to work in full force. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0178par0342	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0179par0343	Mr. President, it was an inappropriate speech for a Secretary of State.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0180par0344	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned my name and stated that some issues regarding my speech do not reflect the truth. I want word from you for bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0178par0345	Here, Mr. Turkesh, I'll give you two minutes due to bullying. Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0180par0348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For once, first of all, I'd like to thank the Minister. Because the last time I spoke to him, he was shaking and talking about those shrouds, and I was worried about him.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0181par0350	My voice never trembles.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0180par0351	We got it back on track today, and he should be thanking me instead of reproaching me. Well, that's misunderstood, so we get it. If Cyprus's recognition of the Turkish Cypriot issue had been with two such talks, you know your minister would have been 50 years. Ban Ki-moon says it's a final effort. He says it's in the time frame. He says it's in the frame. But then there's no idea what will happen if there's no deal after that last effort. Now, there's no reason to mislead the public because something's happening. There's nothing good going on there, one. Second, the issue in Cyprus is not only that Cyprus is an observer of some international institutions, but that it can be represented. In the process of establishing the Turkish Kengeshi, which you have been blessed with, and in the present state...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0182par0354	Established by our will, not by our will, but by our will.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0180par0355	It has been given to you, and your government is then, and its foundations are laid in the Turkish conventions. But you still can't get Cyprus to accept them, so there's a point to remind of that. Oh, I see that the Prime Minister is curious, and your Grace is curious. America would have been very successful if it had been a lot of traveling. Americans travel more than you do, but they don't get results. The Turkmen have not been taken care of outside the meetings until today. And by saying so, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0183par0358	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0184par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0185par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0183par0361	Just a second, Mr. Halaçoglu... Yes, Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0186par0363	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary has offended, slandered, insulted our group's speaker on three separate occasions. First, he accused our disciple of slander. Second, he accused our orator of humiliating the state, insulting the state. Third, he accused the tyrant and the tyrant of defending them.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0187par0366	That's right!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0188par0367	Let him look in the mirror and talk!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0189par0368	Look in the mirror and talk in the mirror!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0190par0369	Congressmans, please, please...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0191par0370	Also, on top of that...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0189par0371	Worst Secretary of State in history!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0191par0372	...returning to the National Party of Action and defending Asad, it would be CHP, which I understand by saying...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0192par0374	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0191par0375	He made a vague statement about what he was doing. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask Mr. Korutrk for three minutes of advice on three separate matters by combining the party with bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0193par0376	No, I promise you two minutes, you know, please.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0191par0377	But then we have to answer the question of the party.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0193par0378	Here you are, Mr. Kurkurk, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0194par0380	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm afraid the Secretary of State has failed miserably, frankly, to your face.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0195par0382	Thank God! We would have been surprised if you had said "successful."
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0194par0383	Of all the foreign ministers of the past, there's no one who's done as much damage to the country as you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0196par0385	Because he took them out of the status quo?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0197par0386	Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0194par0387	Other than that, a minister should be able to keep his word. Our House has its ways, its customs, its transcripts. In those reports, if you seek that I condemn the persecution of the people of Assad (Assad) in the lowest four speeches I have received in the name of the group, don't say that I don't blame them.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0198par0388	You didn't condemn us today, you held us responsible for the deaths of 150,000 people.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0194par0389	I didn't condemn it today, because I made it clear today that I'm not going to repeat my criticism today.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0199par0390	Then why are you taking pictures?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0194par0391	Is it a crime to speak to Armenia? It's not a crime, of course, but Armenia has other parameters: it's a crime to open doors from two departments when five departments are occupied, not to stand behind Azerbaijan. You're getting up, don't be afraid, don't worry, I'm getting miserable. When you open misery, you must get a result from those miseryes. There's nothing to be sorry about, and there's no reason to be sorry about, but there's something else I'm sorry about. What I'm sorry about is that our country has come to this point with your policies. One thing I'm more upset about is that you don't see us coming to this point. This is unbelievable. If we listen to you, you're running from success to success.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0200par0393	Yes!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0194par0394	I advised you to resign at some point. I don't want to tell you to resign, but since you're so successful, I congratulate you, Mr. Secretary, and I wish you all to continue your successes, and I wish you to quit while you're at the summit, and I wish you to leave this mission at the summit. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0201par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0202par0398	We need him, we're proud of him. We're proud, proud!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0203par0399	Mr. President, just now when Mr. Minister accused the Republican People's Party of supporting Assad, he also made an example of us, what's happening to you? He said, there's bullying; one. Secondly, he made a statement to the House about Armenia in a different way than we said...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0201par0400	What did he say differently than what you said, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0203par0401	We didn't tell Ermenistan, we told him about his statements...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0204par0402	He picked on the band, the band!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0201par0403	Congressman, please! I mean, what happens when you do that, it's not clear! What's that supposed to mean?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0205par0404	He said everything but the State, the one thing he didn't know, the foreign affairs, he said everything but that.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0201par0405	Mr. Halaçoglu, here you are, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0206par0406	Tell them they're on vacation with the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0207par0407	You don't know anything else.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0208par0409	Now, Mr. President, dear MPs, I would like to say to Mr. Secretary of State that, first of all, when he went to Armenia, Erivan, he entered through the back door of the hotel rather than through the regular door. So he can't go to Damascus, he can't go to Jerusalem, he can't go to Cairo, he can't go to three countries, he's not there, he's put it in a very successful position with our three neighbors. As for the matter of Armenia, did you ever think about why the transfer was done? I mean, look, there were riots in 23 places. Just prior to the deployment, 128,000 Muslims slaughtered Armenian gangs. Do you know that? It's all documented.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0209par0411	You're the only one who knows, you're the only one who knows!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0208par0412	If you don't know about this, you'll be fine. As the United States drove the Japanese to Mississippi Valley during World War II, so did the Ottomans on the Pacific coast, according to international rights and law. On the other hand, look, I have U.N. documents showing what countries the Armenians migrated to, or didn't die, as of November 1922. Are you aware of this? You're not. Which is when the fair memory and the resistant collective on the sides........ who are the parties? Aren't you on one side? Are you the French Foreign Minister? Which are the sides? One is Turkey, one is Armenia. Which side are you on, Mr. Secretary of State? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0210par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0211par0418	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. What do you want to say?
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0210par0419	Mr. Kuruturk said that he had failed, and Mr. Halaçoglu also made the biggest insult by saying that he was the Minister of France.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0211par0420	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, I promise, for bullying. Mr. Secretary, please, let's not cause any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0212par0425	Mr. Ranger might find me a failure, no big deal. The important thing is that people find some successful or unsuccessful.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0213par0427	Look in the mirror and talk!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0212par0428	Even in European modern democracies, there are few parties that have won three general elections in a row, two local elections, two referendums, and I'm proud to say, democracy is behind this, economic development behind this success, and we have foreign policy because we hold our heads high with honor. (AK PARTY) And I was chosen by a vote that won Turkey's highest vote in the election district when I was elected from Konya. I'm proud of that, too. You may not know it, but Our people know it. We don't expect you to. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Halaçoglu, to be honest, as a scientist, I'm always prepared to consult or negotiate with you, and I think we know mutually that we have the resources to do so. It's me...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0214par0431	Then do it.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0212par0432	We can always do that.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0215par0433	Do it! Do it!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0212par0434	I'm telling most of those documents as well. I'm telling most of those documents as well. By the end of the Balkan War, people were forced to be displaced in the Balkans; our relatives, brothers, all Balkan people had to move, the Caucasian people had to move. What matters here is that a policy is carried out that distinguishes the traitors from the common people. We sit with all the Balkan people and all the Caucasus people, and we share our pain and our great achievements throughout history.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0216par0435	I've never heard you say it!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0212par0436	But I must admit that last year in France, history has also witnessed how we turned back the so-called genocide law on France by fighting foreign members, lawmakers of the AK PARTY group, and all institutions related to France. You can stay French to him, but history's out of French!
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0217par0439	No, I was on the commission there.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0212par0440	I protect this state's right, its law, all over the world, and I protect it as Secretary of State of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0218par0442	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0217par0443	Mr. President, now, look, I'd like to remind Mr. Secretary of State of State of State of France that I was already on the committee on behalf of the Parliament...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0218par0444	Yes, Mr. Halaçoglu, thank you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0217par0445	But once he says I'm French, it means he's not the only one.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0219par0446	Staying French is an expression, meaning that you can't follow...
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0218par0447	No, he didn't say you were French, he said you could stay.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0219par0449	Woe to you! [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget for 2014 2) The State Department's Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Final Account for Central Management 2012 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2012 EDUCATION OF MILITARY EDUCATION [[Continue]] 1) National Education Ministry Central Management Budget for 2014 2) National Education Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2012 1) The Council for Higher Education 2014 Central Management Budget 2) The Board of Higher Education 2012 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for 2014 2) Measurement, Selection and Placement Central Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2012
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0220par0476	Yes, the second word on behalf of the government now belongs to Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is twenty minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0221par0479	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, I'm going to try to present information about budget bills in 2014 with activities carried out by our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I hereby salute your high council. As it is known, the planless and distorted construction of rapid urbanization along with industrialization in our country has led to the destruction of natural resources, pollution and technical infrastructure. The Ministry, established in July 2011, aims to ensure a permanent solution to these problems, conducts extensive, exciting and thorough work to ensure sustainable environment and habitable settlements, to conduct urban transformation across the country, and to create high-quality brand cities. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, as in the world, are now 75 per cent in 1927, when the rate of rapid urbanization in our country has risen rapidly. Fast urbanization and warped construction, which has been going on for nearly 70 years, has prevented our cities from becoming healthy, and has increased the risk of life and loss of property in case of disaster. The most painful example of this fact is that in a minute and a half, more than 110,000 homes were unusable in the 1999 Marmara earthquake. With 5 million out of nearly 20 million dwellings in our country built after the 1999 earthquake, we can say that there are relatively earthquake-resistant housing. However, we are obliged to renew about 6.5 million of the 15 million remaining homes in the face of 2,500km of earthquake fault lines and other catastrophic risks found in our country. In order to eliminate the risk of earthquakes and similar disasters, more than 600,000 safe houses have been produced during the AK PARTI administrations alone in the state's hands over the last ten years. This has also led to serious experience and experience in our construction industry and building contractors. In the 61st period of government, we launched a major urban transformation campaign last year in order to create safe, healthy, and habitable places, where buildings that have become mandatory for modern urbanization, have completed their economic life or risk the potential disasters. In this context, in 2013, we began the transformation of 253,000 dwellings over our goal to convert 200,000 independent units. In 2014, we will again begin the transformation of 500,000 dwellings overcoming our goal. Our ultimate goal is to achieve the transformation of 3.5 million dwellings by the 100th year of our republic and 6.5 million units within the next 20 years. Mr. President, very valuable MPs, as the Ministry, we are essentially co-ordinating urban transformation, creating the necessary environment. The urban transformation is run by the governorates, municipalities and relevant NGOs, as well as by private sectors and citizens on the basis of volunteering. In urban transformation, we show the utmost sensitivity, support, and support to ensure that our citizens are not victims; we provide rent assistance, loan aid and transport assistance. We also exempt our citizens from many taxes and mortars, especially VAT, who have converted their building. In this direction, we've transferred $655m to our urban transforming municipalities and citizens so far. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the urban transformation has become a national issue today. The main axis of the urban transformation we're making is the transformation of risky buildings. Urban transformation is a project to protect our people's lives, a project to promote our people's right to life; it is also a project to create energy-saving and environment-sensitive settlements. So, over the next decade, we're targeting a Turkey that has introduced its infrastructure to modern standards along with urban transformation, dealt with solid waste storage and recycling problems, completed wastewater treatment systems, fully compatible with climate change strategy, captured Europe in the criteria for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Dear lawmakers, urban transformation is not only to renovate old houses, runaway homes, dowdy homes, disaster-threatening homes, but also to produce homes with the comforts the developing and changing world requires. In this regard, urban transformation is inevitable, but it is also a long and difficult process. At this point, it is our obligation to modernize our cities in harmony with the environment, to ensure that our people live more happily ever after. The urban transformation has been adopted by our people and has created a serious expectation. The most obvious evidence of this is that the number of housings that our citizens are making risk assessments of on their own demands is up to 61,000 today. We, on the basis of volunteering, continue our work at full speed with the request and participation of our citizen. With the ongoing urban transformation work, the building industry and the technical guidance system will develop, building materials production and quality will increase, and we will get advanced world standards in development plans and urban design, and we will discipline the construction sector in preventing the informal economy. Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, so, as the Ministry, we try to conduct urban transformations and create a new zoning order, and then we try to sit the structure control system on its actual basis. We also aim to bring quality and discipline to the industry by keeping track of building contractors and their masters. We also work on construction plans, building licenses, and new regulations that will facilitate permits for use. In this way, municipalities will be able to give a much easier license, and we will take a much higher rank in the Doing Business Index, where we are ranked ranked ranked ranking 54, 69, today. In this regard, we will bring the arrangements for the Law on Building and Construction Control, which we have been working on, before the Supreme Assembly as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers are indicators of developed and developed countries that have, as it is known, completed urban transformation, had sufficient technical infrastructure. In this direction, the ground-based, strategic planning work we run with the Ministry of Development and plans for environmental order carried out by our Ministry and by the urban municipalities continue rapidly. In addition, with the National Geographic Information System that we're building, we're going to offer all geographical information to our people through a joint portal, technically and milimetrically. In this way, public and private sector investors will have quick and easy access to geographical data, and investment processes will be much shorter. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the same way, we are conducting special projects that can compete internationally to increase the brand value of our country and our cities. In this regard, the planning work of the Istanbul International Centre for Financial Affairs project has been completed and infrastructure construction has been launched. Again, we're building a very special, ecological and green new city that we started in Basakşehir, Istanbul, which includes the third airport. In the same way, in our major cities such as Ankara, İzmir, Bursa, Adana and Diyarbakir, we will increase the brand value of our cities by creating model settlements of renewable energy sources with city parks, theme parks, universities, fair and logistical areas. In addition, to preserve the traditional and historical fabric of our changing and developing Turkey, and to speed up transformation studies in rural areas, we have produced projects that reflect the local architecture of our seven geographical regions, and we have reached the point of completing our work to encourage and encourage our citizens to implement these projects. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are members of a civilization that knows how to give nature as much as we take from nature as it is in our belief and tradition in the environment. With that understanding, when we make our industrialization, urbanization and development moves, we've always cared deeply for the protection and healing of the environment, and we will continue to give. Thanks to the project and work of our Prime Minister, who cared about the environment he started when he was mayor of Istanbul, Istanbul got rid of the garbage mountains, where it integrated the green and the tree with the city. With that understanding, we work hard to prevent environmental pollution, improve environmental standards and fight climate change. In this regard, the ministry has provided about $300m in grants for the sewage, wastewater treatment and solid waste storage facilities as well as the waste collection tools we have given to municipalities as well as the ministry in the last two years. Again, in 2013 alone, municipalities were given $600m in grants for infrastructure and environmental investments by ilBANK, the Bank of Provinces. Today, the ILBANK has become an institution that has not only transferred its share of the treasure to municipalities, but has been able to produce resources, providing additional grants to municipalities in urban transformation, technical infrastructure and environmental investments. FROM 2003-2012, the ILBANK provided 14 billion euros to local governments, but only in 2013 -- this year more than 3 billion TL -- with low interest, long-term loans. About $4 billion has been earmarked for 820 jobs in the last three years as part of the SUKAP project launched to resolve small municipalities' water and sewage problems. As it is known, we've moved on to the era of banks that have profited and served. In our time, the TOKI, who couldn't even lend money to cooperatives in the past, created its own source and produced 600,000 dwellings in 81 provinces, destroying the slum culture. Again, the real estate dwelling, which reached the point of liquidation, has paid off its debts to KEY, $3.5 billion in housing assistance, and has now become a prestigious institution in which it will receive $5 billion in cash and $3 billion in cash in its safe. We're also going to deliver them to our municipalities by making 150 parks in 81 provinces next year with a joint project conducted by our IIBANK and Environment Management General Directorate. Again, we run 18 projects in 56 municipalities, with 505m euros from European Union sources, along with national resources for infrastructure and environmental investments. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have reached 72 per cent of the municipality's population, which is now being served as wastewater. The number of regular solid waste storage has reached 69 (69) in Turkey. By 2023, we will ensure that all of our municipalities will be reunited with a regular floor waste storage facility and a wastewater treatment facility. At the point of recycling solid waste, today, we've created a new recycling sector with the 1,395 recycling plant. This provided more than $1 billion a year value for 60,000 jobs and economics. Now, Turkey is in a position to produce energy from garbage, to produce greenhouses. We're going to take this much further. From now on, our coastal facilities provide ship-to-ship disposal. On the one hand, we're collecting sea brooms and trash off the coast, and on the other hand, we're watching ship, boat and yacht waste online. Also, as it is known, in the Blue Flag ranking -- we were fourth last year -- we made our country third in the world this year. In our country, we are also conducting a very serious process of reducing the use of substances that thin the ozone layer and transitioning to alternatives. Again, with 165 stable and 3 mobile measuring stations in 81 counties, we are constantly measuring the air quality and broadcasting the results on our web page for a moment. In the environmental impact assessment, or CED, from 2011, we reduced the number of documents from 199 to 16. We've been electronically involved in environmental permits and licenses, and we've combined all processes under one rule. So, we've made great distances in improving the investment climate. In this regard, we continue to make new arrangements in a way that reduces bureaucracy. In the last three years, we've conducted environmental inspections in about 100,000 businesses to prevent pollution. We're trying to respond to all the issues that our citizens are curious about in urban transformation and environmental matters. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, a 16-year-old institution, are one of our citizens' most important contact points with the state and serve our average 20 million people a year. It can be digitally carried out today with questions of real estate from all parts of Turkey and the registration of the property. In the near future, we will carry out the deeds and sales of property in 341 properties in another province still being piloted in the land office, and even abroad. We've arranged for all the deeds to be done online. We also increased the quality of service to citizens through the Alo Tapu Kadastro Tracking Table. In the last ten years, we've completed the real estate cadastro of nearly 13,000 units, and we've brought our entire country's cadastro to an end, except for some troubled areas. Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, again, in the works of our Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, we've transferred $6.5 billion in revenues to the treasury, the treasure, from the fees we collected on the deed this year, in 2013. Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, today we're going through a process where developed countries talk about the future, shape future cities and structures, and we're going through a period where environmental awareness becomes more important than ever. So as we prepare our cities for the future, we speed up our efforts to make our buildings green buildings, our cities green cities. In terms of the environment, the Copenhagen Criters, the United Nations criteria, are trying to keep up with the Rio contracts, and Turkey is trying to keep up with its investments in its own size. We work with the awareness that environmental investment is actually an investment in man and our future, and as our countries prepare our cities for the future, we speed up our efforts to make our buildings green buildings and cities green cities. And from now on, we're going to show our precision in order to increase the green again, to protect the environment. In this direction, we strive to serve with a Turkey's goal, which works, works, produces, and divides it fairly. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our 2014 budget to be good for our country and our nation. I'd like to thank all of our MPs for their contributions to the Plan and Budget Commission, the esteemed President and members. I wish our budget good luck to our country again. My sincerest regards to all of you.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit02spe0222par0509	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit03spe0222par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2014 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2012 Central Management Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, we're going to continue voting for colleges' 2014 budgets. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE a) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.544,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 900,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 48,621.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 55,602,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 140,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 55,353,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 109000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 55.602,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT a) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6.541.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 266,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 53,799,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 61.206,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 149.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 59,762,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 1.295,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 61.206,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN A) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.433,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 39.147,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 377,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 121,349,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 169.506,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 5,863,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 157,353,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 6,220,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 169.506,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY a) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 6,384.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 5,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 800,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 826,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 45,000,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 53,016,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 52.992,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 7,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 53,016,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY a) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 4.132,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 880,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,654,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 34,516,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 41.141,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 20,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 41.034,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 87,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 41.141.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI a) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Budget for 2014 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 5.899.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 25,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 740,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 660,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 33,714,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 41,018,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 17,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 40,966,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 35,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 41.018,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.06) ANKARA SOCIAL UNIVERSE a) Ankara University of Social Sciences 2014 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 1,764,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 29,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 488,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 15.111,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 13.103,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 30.495,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 04 Special Incomes 30,475,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 30.495,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of universities' 2014 budgets have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the final accounts of the universities in 2012 will be taken into consideration: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the exponents (B) with the expense ruler: 38.02) ANKARA UNIVERSE B) Ankara University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 501,144,588,17 Budget Expenses 482.351.632.44 Savings Expenses 400,446,35 Canceled Fund 16.018.032.85 Transferred to the Next Year 3.193,485,63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 451,828,000,00 Net Collection 476,067,039,34 Ret and Returns (-) 239,042,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.03) ORTA EAST TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Middle East Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 299.143.829.81 Budget Expenses 290.936.600,41 Canceled Fund 7,913,319,90 Transferred to the Next Year 319,999,50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 278,018,000,00 Net Collection 245.978.658,71 Ret and Returns (-) 839,655,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.04) HACETTEPE UNIVERSITY B) Hacettepe University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 491,499,660,33 Budget Expenses 488.913.470.79 The grant goes to 3.696,656,95 Canceled Fund 6.010.766.07 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 272.080,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 421,618,000,00 Net Collection 473.902.854.86 Ret and Returns (-) 849,853,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.05) GAZI UNIVERSE B) Gazi University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 443,015,892.06 Budget Expenses 426,460,459,46 Canceled Fund 16,270.161,76 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 285,270,84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 404,220,000.00 Net Collection 429,487,426,57 Ret and Returns (1.101.767.73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.06) ISTANBUL UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 727.697.078.19 Budget Expenses 667.661.707.64 Canceled Fund 57,566,344,73 Transferred to the Next Year 3.110.610.82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 640.598,000.00 Net Collection 599,734,459,39 Ret and Returns (-) 783.11.65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.07) ISTANBUL TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) İstanbul Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 352.503.343.60 Budget Expenses 340.561.382.67 Canceled Fund 8.670.700.20 Transferred to the Next Year 5,311,885,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 273,168,000,00 Net Collection 310,077,157,82 Ret and Returns (-) 603,244,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.08) THE UNIVERSE OF THE BOUGS B) Bosporus University 2012 Central Management Final Account [[TL]] Total allowance 168,973,686,09 Budget Expenses 162.499.067,36 Canceled allowance 6.020.425,73 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 454.193.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 154.816,000.00 Net Collection 171,436,108,27 Ret and Returns (-) 311,327,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.09) MARMARA UNIVERSE B) Marmara University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 372.986.465.96 Budget Expenses 307.177.969.91 Canceled allowance 64.018.842.10 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.789.653.95 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 282.894,000.00 Net Collection 297,952,011,48 Ret and Returns (-) 2.173.954.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.10) STAR TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Star Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 180,655,824,70 Budget Expenses 172.491.748.72 Canceled Fund 6,795,912,17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.466.676.17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 155,812,000,00 Net Collection 180.251.309.92 Ret and Returns (-) 335.930.96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.11) MINAR SINAN ARTS UNIVERSE B) Architect Sinan University of Fine Arts 2012 Central Management Final Account [[TL]] Total allowance 84,179,318,43 Budget Expenses 79.367.359.84 Canceled Fund 4,746,456,17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 65,502,42 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 69,163,000,00 Net Collection 70.429.469.34 Ret and Returns (-) 20.467.22 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.12) EGE UNIVERSE B) Ege University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 455,739,850.00 Budget Expenses 445.056.910.67 Canceled Fund 10,177,671,60 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 505,267,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 393.697,000.00 Net Collection 398.062.638,97 Ret and Returns (-) 1,066,869,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.13) NINE SEPTEMBER UNIVERSITY B) 9 September University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 398,829,367,93 Budget Expenses 379.771.628.83 Canceled allowance 19,057,708,30 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 30.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 328.843,000.00 Net Collection 326.215.480.09 Ret and Returns (-) 92,323,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.14) TRACIA UNIVERSITY B) Thrace University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 169,437,870,10 Budget Expenses 159.398.904.25 Canceled allowance 10.030.228.69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 8.737.16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 148.402,000.00 Net Collection 159,763,455,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.15) UNIVERSE B) Uludağ University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 304.228.399.37 Budget Expenses 272.150.988.73 Canceled Fund 31,959,218,88 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,049,319,76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 261,421,000,00 Net Collection 247,856,541,90 Ret and Returns (-) 910.202.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.16) UNIVERSITY OF ANADOLU B) Anadolu University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 411,184,884.03 Budget Expenses 389.103.145.20 Canceled Fund 19,869,201,54 Transferred to the Next Year 2.212,537,29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 257,649.000,00 Net Collection 349,653,049,27 Ret and Returns (-) 547,322,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.17) SELCUT UNIVERSE B) Selçuk University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total Payment 311,811,601,68 Budget Expenses 283.690.239.52 Canceled Fund 27.217.395.49 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 903,966,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 345.804,000.00 Net Collection 267,280,808,19 Ret and Returns (-) 4.266.094,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.18) THE UNIVERSE OF THE Mediterranean B) Mediterranean University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 282.504.836.85 Budget Expenses 272.417.716.63 Canceled Fund 9.928.934.25 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 158,185,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 234,350,000.00 Net Collection 256,766,044,87 Ret and Returns (-) 545,579,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.19) ERCIA UNIVERSITY B) Ercijas University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total Payment 258,072.349,14 Budget Expenses 252.066.158.52 Canceled allowance 5.859.950.34 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 146,240,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 215.262,000.00 Net Collection 254.028.256,89 Ret and Returns (-) 706,840,28 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.20) REPUBLIC UNIVERSITY B) Cumhuriyet University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 190.141.095.98 Budget Expenses 178.952.382.43 Canceled Fund 11.089.211.98 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 99,501,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 159,825,000.00 Net Collection 169,112,240,30 Ret and Returns (-) 740.101.45 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.21) CHIKUROVA UNIVERSE B) Çukurova University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 274,419,513,17 Budget Expenses 251,454,447,27 Canceled Fund 22.765.322.85 Transferred to the following Year: 199,743,05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 250,633,000,00 Net Collection 238,685,443,42 Ret and Returns (-) 331,444,52 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.22) ONDOCUZ MAY UNIVERSE B) 19 May University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 256,943,126,51 Budget Expenses 235,873,349,58 Canceled Fund 20.021.474,46 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 3.522.295.33 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 215.183,000.00 Net Collection 244.350.736.05 Ret and Returns (-) 65,927,75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.23) KARADENENiz TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Black Sea Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 261,308,814,63 Budget Expenses 238.919.669.11 Canceled Fund 22.356,355,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 32,789,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 216,663,000,00 Net Collection 214,775,112,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.24) ATATURK UNIVERSITY B) Ataturk University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 387.997.737.20 Budget Expenses 352.987.019,41 Canceled allowance 33,849,479,15 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,161,238,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 310,299.00 Net Collection 371,778,681,08 Ret and Returns (-) 56,977,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.25) UNIVERSE OF MAN B) Inönü University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 207,930,507,48 Budget Expenses 195,175,545,61 Canceled Fund 12.711.625.33 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 43,336,54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 167,928,000,00 Net Collection 216.792.029,98 Ret and Returns (-) 1,061,822,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.26) FIRAT UNIVERSE B) Firat University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 218,567,237,98 Budget Expenses 205,088,468,60 Canceled Fund 13.262.154,72 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 531,844,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 191,508,000,00 Net Collection 199,787,801,97 Ret and Returns (-) 284.315.96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.27) DICLE UNIVERSE B) Dicle University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 239,088,434,55 Budget Expenses 223.927.919.63 Canceled Fund 15,091,861,01 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 68,653,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimated at 200.792,000.00 Net Collection 225,794,255,56 Ret and Returns (-) 410,094,29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.28) THE UNIVERSE OF THE YUNDAY B) Centennial University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 308,698,110,85 Budget Expenses 289.305.550.78 Canceled Fund 19,209,113,45 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 183,446,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 179.199.00 Net Collection 283,766,243,21 Ret and Returns (-) 269,210,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.29) GAZIANTEP UNIVERSITY B) Gaziantep University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total Payment 201,508,984,38 Budget Expenses 185,428,035,37 Canceled allowance 15.994.663.93. The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 86,285,08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 157,468,000,00 Net Collection 178.917.819.71 Ret and Returns (-) 170,775,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.30) B) İzmir Institute of Higher Technology Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 68,196,728,87 Budget Expenses 60.259.146.78 Canceled Fund 7.935.297.97 Transferred to the Next Year Payment 97,788,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 61.072,000.00 Net Collection 57.306.838.91 Ret and Returns (-) 47,086,00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.31) GEBZE HIGH TEKNOLOGY INSTITUTION B) Gebze Institute of High Technologies 2012 Central Management Final Account [[TL]] Total Fund 66.13.104.13 Budget Expenses 65,373,357,47 Cancelled Grant 677,746,66 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year $80,000.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 57,295,000.00 Net Collection 64.920.410.25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.32) HARRAN UNIVERSE B) Harran University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 140,348,809,87 Budget Expenses 115,893,327,98 Canceled allowance 24.376.230,45 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 79,251,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 126.301.000.00 Net Collection 82,946,480,52 Ret and Returns (-) 254.770,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.33) SULAYMAN UNIVERSE B) Suleiman Demirel University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 247,547,414,95 Budget Expenses 234.323.894.96 Canceled allowance 11.853.197,82 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1,370,322,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 203,621.000,00 Net Collection 232.134.379,44 Ret and Returns (-) 9.532.88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.34) ADNAN MANDERES UNIVERSITY B) Adnan Menderes University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 158,003,564,11 Budget Expenses 151,584,865,61 Canceled allowance 6.370.609.70 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 48,088,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 135,259000.00 Net Collection 153,741,874,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.35) THE UNIVERSE OF BULENT EGEVITY B) Blunt Ecevit University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 132.872.662.21 Budget Expenses 115,91,984,71 Canceled Fund 16,478,135.00 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 482.542.50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 111,376,000.00 Net Collection 113.807.997,72 Ret and Returns (-) 319,689.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.36) MERSIN UNIVERSE B) Mersin University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 186,590,152.04 Budget Expenses 178.829.257.15 Canceled allowance 7.760.894.89 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 163,001,00 Net Collection 171,500,079,31 Ret and Returns (-) 227,254,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.37) PAMUKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Pamukkale University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 216,154,434,47 Budget Expenses 196,663,251,93 Canceled Fund 19,488,702,88 Transferred to the following year 870,179,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 164.192,000.00 Net Collection 178.592.908,20 Ret and Returns (-) 292.415.75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.38) UNIVERSE B) Balıkesir University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 141,724,518,27 Budget Expenses 132.557.001.52 Aborted allowance 9.097.969.82 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 69,546,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 128,308,000,00 Net Collection 142.912.110,54 Ret and Returns (-) 504.699,81 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.39) COCALE UNIVERSITY B) Alexei University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 217,386,725,39 Budget Expenses 210,412,616,94 Cancelled Fund 6,869,888,84 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 104,219,61 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 191,450,000.00 Net Collection 202.135.078.00 Ret and Returns (-) 1,334,179,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.40) SAKARY UNIVERSITY B) Sakarya University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 192.858.704.44 Budget Expenses 189.193.343.09 Canceled Fund 3.467.266.05 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 198,095,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 157,650,000.00 Net Collection 182.609.840,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.41) CELAL BAYER UNIVERSITY B) Celal Bayar University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 159,185,552.03 Budget Expenses 150.964.366.99 Canceled Fund 8,048,410,65 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 172,774,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 146,254,000.00 Net Collection 153,220,565,26 Ret and Returns (-) 406,490,56 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.42) ABANT UNIVERSE B) Abant Izzet Baysal University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 131,139,729,46 Budget Expenses 121,906,234,51 Canceled Fund 9,083,385,78 Transferred to the Next Year 2.150.109.17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 110.905,000.00 Net Collection 124,768,741,38 Ret and Returns (-) 278,706,14 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.43) MUSTAFA CEMAL UNIVERSE B) Mustafa Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 138.338.553.25 Budget Expenses 128,560,365,72 Canceled Fund 8.314.537.84 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1.463.649.69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 117.124,000.00 Net Collection 125,735,051,40 Ret and Returns (-) 622,899,54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.44) AFYON KOCATEPE UNIVERSITY B) Afyon Kocatepe University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 169,604,014,83 Budget Expenses 155,432,858,70 Canceled Fund 14.026,706,49 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 144.449.64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 146,296,000,00 Net Collection 159,076,673,74 Ret and Returns (-) 321,938,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.45) KAFKAS UNIVERSITY B) Kafkas University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 105,897,349,62 Budget Expenses 101.919.270.30 Canceled Grant 3.877.034.91 Transferred to the Next Year, Payment 101,044,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 91,438,000.00 Net Collection 105,526,054,91 Ret and Returns (-) 1,175.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.46) CHUNKKALE ONSELVES MART UNIVERSITY B) Çanakkale University of March 18, 2012 Central Management Final Account [[TL]] Total allowance 151,530,444,16 Budget Expenses 145,950,588,73 Canceled Fund 5,454,033,42 Transferred to the Next Year Payment 125,822,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 126,525,000.00 Net Collection 141,289,522,83 Ret and Returns (-) 699,870,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.47) UNIVERSITY IN NUCRY B) Niğde University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 89,043,247,28 Budget Expenses 81.810.022,31 Canceled Fund 7,227,797,13 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 5.427.84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 74,179.000.00 Net Collection 85.502.389.85 Ret and Returns (-) 164.476.07 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.48) DUMLUPINAR UNIVERSITY B) Dumlupınar University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 147,125,806,15 Budget Expenses 122.551.744.42 Canceled Fund 24,480,525,52 Transferred to the Next Year, Payment 93,536,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 103,228,000.00 Net Collection 114,628,485,49 Ret and Returns (-) 571,960,06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.49) Gaziosmanpasha UNIVERSITY B) Gaziosmanpaşa University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 126,272,125,32 Budget Expenses 109,353,861,46 Canceled Fund 16,912,279,46 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 5,984,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 111,626,000,00 Net Collection 113,752,674,19 Ret and Returns (-) 90,550,79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.50) STUDIES STUDENT UNIVERSITY B) Mugla Sıtkı Koçman University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 123,395,114,41 Budget Expenses 118,559,277,40 Canceled allowance 4.835.837.01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 109,681000,00 Net Collection 117.182.904,40 Ret and Returns (-) 630,279,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.51) KAHRAMANMARM SURVIVE UNIVERSE B) Kahramanmarash Milker Imam University Central Management Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 147,368.191,29 Budget Expenses 142.653.232.48 Canceled Fund 4.662.629.63 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 52,329,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 131,261.00 Net Collection 150,574.893,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.52) }KIRIKKALE UNIVERSITY B) Kırıkkale University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 142.996.583.39 Budget Expenses 134,747,568,72 Canceled Fund 8,178,400,54 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 70,614,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 123,709.000.00 Net Collection 130,729,107,00 Ret and Returns (-) 386.471.54 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.53) EXECUTE OSMANGAZI UNIVERSITY B) Eskişehir Osmangazi University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 172.225.482.06 Budget Expenses 163,767.800,58 Canceled Fund 7.609.345.53 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 848,335.95 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 152.421.000.00 Net Collection 171,720,621,08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.54) GALATASARAY UNIVERSITY B) Galatasaray University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 48,394,863,08 Budget Expenses 43,521,517,60 Canceled Fund 4,654,526,11 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 218,819,37 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 47.345,000.00 Net Collection 48.215.960.03 Ret and Returns (-) 145,880,32 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.55) THE UNIVERSE OF THE EVIL B) Ahi Evran University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 67,719,936,24 Budget Expenses 59,761,284,52 Canceled Fund 7.888.910.05 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 69,741,67 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 61,872,000.00 Net Collection 70.302.704.99 Ret and Returns (-) 251,198,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.56) UNIVERSITY OF KASTAMON B) Kastamonu University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 64,887,672,39 Budget Expenses 61,586,002,19 Canceled Fund 3,209,688,29 Transferred to the Next Year, Payment 91,981,91 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 51.201.000.00 Net Collection 56.509.638.35 Ret and Returns (-) 14.752.15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.57) UNIVERSE B) Düzce University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 95,375,378,16 Budget Expenses 86.076.839.80 Canceled Fund 9.229,433,92 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 69,104,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 82,175,000.00 Net Collection 86.225.746.08 Ret and Returns (-) 90,904,17 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.58) MEHMET AKIF ERSOY UNIVERSITY B) Mehmet Akif Ersoy University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 85,495,251,15 Budget Expenses 82,350,059,10 Canceled Grant 3.091,531,17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 53,660,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 66,813.00 Net Collection 79,421,487,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.59) THE UNIVERSE B) Uğur University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 64,756,796,02 Budget Expenses 59.551.056.75 Canceled allowance 5.140.918.69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 64,820,58 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 57,887,000.00 Net Collection 65,263,205,47 Ret and Returns (-) 330,945,70 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.60) RECEP TERRORAL UNIVERSE B) Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 267,627,424,22 Budget Expenses 118,760,975,65 Canceled Fund 128,805,052,33 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 61,396,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 70.246,000.00 Net Collection 114,998,346,17 Ret and Returns (-) 177,950,26 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.61) NAMI KEMAL UNIVERSE B) Namik Kemal University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 104,610,741,20 Budget Expenses 89.201.11.36 Canceled Fund 15,356,485,82 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 53,144.02 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 86,953000,00 Net Collection 99,522,692,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.62) ERZINCAN UNIVERSITY B) Erzincan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 92,454,658,62 Budget Expenses 85.877.095.91 Canceled allowance 6.504,866,85 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 72,695,86 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 67,891.000.00 Net Collection 88.468.842.07 Ret and Returns (-) 165.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.63) AKSARAY UNIVERSITY B) Aksaray University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 70,722,718.00 Budget Expenses 62.956.936.58 Canceled Fund 7.612,436,52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 153,344.90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 55,965,000.00 Net Collection 71,738,831,15 Ret and Returns (-) 181,345,57 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.64) THE UNIVERSE OF ENTERMENT B) Giresun University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 71,674,730,26 Budget Expenses 58.697.362.64 Canceled Fund 12.939.927.16 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 37,440,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 60.017,000.00 Net Collection 61,837,888,32 Ret and Returns (-) 303,754,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.65) HETIT UNIVERSITY B) Hitit University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 66,464,120,90 Budget Expenses 55,767,420,60 Canceled Fund 10.566.897.51 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 129.802.79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 52,279.000.00 Net Collection 52,529,905,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.66) BOZOK UNIVERSE B) Bozok University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 82,519,660,21 Budget Expenses 65,879,579,14 Cancelled Fund 16.610.525.22 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 29.555.85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 55,048,000.00 Net Collection 79,493,221,43 Ret and Returns (-) 86,279,11 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.67) THE UNIVERSE OF ADIYAMAN B) Adıyaman University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 110.837.695.54 Budget Expenses 95.046.702.50 Canceled Fund 15,735,854,66 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 55,138,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 77,475,000.00 Net Collection 90.895.192.33 Ret and Returns (-) 252.769.03 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.68) ORDU UNIVERSITY B) Military University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 67,522,201,97 Budget Expenses 54,585.181,19 Canceled allowance 12.900.850.86 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 36,169,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 53,830.000.00 Net Collection 62,588,140,17 Ret and Returns (-) 98.277.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.69) AMASIA UNIVERSITY B) Amasya University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 56,454,203,55 Budget Expenses 45.044.628.08 Canceled allowance 11.404.432,47 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 5.143.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 45,284,000.00 Net Collection 47.597.706,72 Ret and Returns (-) 177,166,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.70) CENTURY UNIVERSE B) Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 66,735,799,89 Budget Expenses 46,784.270,83 Canceled Fund 19.951.529.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 45,106,000.00 Net Collection 45,876,681,79 Ret and Returns (-) 132.504.80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.71) ALONG IBRAHAM UNIVERSE B) Ağrı İbrahim Chechen University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 64,286,376,19 Budget Expenses 55.619.107.81 Canceled Fund 8.636.467.22 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 30,801,16 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 44,568,000.00 Net Collection 52,290,049,83 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.72) SINOP UNIVERSE B) Sinop University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 59,851,299,51 Budget Expenses 41.531.357.75 Canceled Fund 18,319,941,76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 45,018,000,00 Net Collection 52,270,798,58 Ret and Returns (-) 161,702,30 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.73) CIRT UNIVERSE B) Siirt University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 59,785,137,52 Budget Expenses 42,363,256,92 Canceled Fund 17.421.880.60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 42,176,000.00 Net Collection 40.160.249.30 Ret and Returns (-) 33.395.85 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.74) NUCHIHIHELVES VICTIM UNIVERSE B) Nevşehir University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 67,917,934,97 Budget Expenses 55,038,865,18 Canceled Fund 12,858,292,89 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 20,776,90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 49,629000,00 Net Collection 52,768,820,53 Ret and Returns (-) 197,132.29 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.75) CONTROL UNIVERSE B) Karabük University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 95.901.339.37 Budget Expenses 88,624,437,61 Canceled Fund 7,169,224,58 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 107,677,18 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 68.571.000.00 Net Collection 76,567,369,47 Ret and Returns (-) 398,052,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.76) CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF DECEMBER 7 B) Kilis University of December 7th 2012 Central Management Final Account [[TL]] Total allowance 56,270,258,39 Budget Expenses 48,410,598,93 Canceled Fund 7,798,704.00 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 60,955,46 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 43,286,000.00 Net Collection 46.507.524.51 Ret and Returns (-) 36,499,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.77) THE UNIVERSE OF CHUNKIRI KATEKIN B) Çankırı Karateken University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 72,923,962.86 Budget Expenses 65.328.373.96 Canceled Fund 7,449,232,24 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 146,356,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 53,958,000.00 Net Collection 63.997.529.46 Ret and Returns (-) 5.908,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.78) ARVIN UNIVERSITY OF CORUH B) Artvin Çoruh University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 53,290,627,96 Budget Expenses 50,723,135,09 Canceled Fund 2,555,833,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 11.659.50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 42,002,000.00 Net Collection 52,727,714,50 Ret and Returns (-) 98,256,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.79) THE UNIVERSE OF BILECTIC HEITH B) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 53,652,776,17 Budget Expenses 45.801.323.69 Canceled Fund 7.832.339.56 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 19,112,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 48,421,000,00 Net Collection 51.803.231.01 Ret and Returns (-) 201,523,51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.80) BITIS EREN UNIVERSE B) Bitlis Eren University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 59,134,098,20 Budget Expenses 53.366.614.48 Canceled Fund 5,767,483,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 0.01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 42.141.000.00 Net Collection 47,235,770,24 Ret and Returns (-) 45,281,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.81) THE UNIVERSE OF RIVERSALS B) Cırklareli University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 62,334,457.00 Budget Expenses 58.554.741.11 Canceled Fund 3.690.078.89 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 89,637.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 51.544,000.00 Net Collection 60,565,945,38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.82) OSMANIA SCARED ATA UNIVERSITY B) Osmaniye Korkuş Ata University 2012 Central Management Final Account [[TL]] Total allowance 49.129.179.90 Budget Expenses 44.354.137.08 Canceled Fund 4.751.540.69 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 23.502,13 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 45,254,000.00 Net Collection 55.502.226.50 Ret and Returns (-) 43,039,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.83) BINGO UNIVERSITY B) Bingöl University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 59,884.997,57 Budget Expenses 53.994.937.53 Canceled Fund 5.826.123.55 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 63,936,49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 46,648,000.00 Net Collection 61.181.651.55 Ret and Returns (-) 4.690.97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.84) MUDI ALPARSLAN UNIVERSITY B) Muş Alparslan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 70,004,646.06 Budget Expenses 60,743,048,70 Canceled Fund 9.216.008,37 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 45,588,99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 47,651.00 Net Collection 58,444,495,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.85) MARDIN UNIVERSE UNIVERSE B) Mardin Artuklu University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 59,677,487,18 Budget Expenses 49,896,225,26 Canceled Fund 9.743.790.92 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 37,471.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 43,679.000.00 Net Collection 51,989,404,74 Ret and Returns (-) 25.095,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.86) BATMAN UNIVERSITY B) Batman University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 78,567,947,63 Budget Expenses 57.145.551.85 Canceled Fund 21,413,286,96 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 9.108,82 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 42,065,000.00 Net Collection 40.761.757.10 Ret and Returns (-) 74,053,51 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.87) ARDAHAN UNIVERSE B) Ardahan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 54,590,732.23 Budget Expenses 51.204.831.94 Cancelled Fund 3,364.825,19 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 21.075,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 35.036,000.00 Net Collection 43.752.517.07 Ret and Returns (-) 54,718,11 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit03spe0223par1472	No one's agreeing.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit03spe0224par1473	It wasn't, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit03spe0225par1474	Let them raise their hand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-12-15sit03spe0226par1475	Mr. Akar, the ruling MPs are raising their hands without opposition, don't worry. If you were me here, you'd see. 38.88) THE UNIVERSE OF BARTIN B) Bartın University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 51.193.786.65 Budget Expenses 37,369,273,71 Canceled Fund 13.767.178.59 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 57,334,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 40.216,000.00 Net Collection 37.884.771.03 Ret and Returns (-) 121,819,48 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.89) MRBURT UNIVERSITY B) Bayburt University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 37,775,807,88 Budget Expenses 31,006,469,81 Canceled allowance 6.726.552.29 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 42,78,78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 35.352,000.00 Net Collection 39,885,374,46 Ret and Returns (-) 56,937,96 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.90) STRIKE UNIVERSITY B) Silverhane University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 66.202.372.69 Budget Expenses 64.138.640.35 Canceled Fund 2.040.190.40 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 23.541.94 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimated 54,020,000.00 Net Collection 64.180.416.35 Ret and Returns (-) 51,206,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.91) THE RIGHTS UNIVERSE B) Hakkari University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 50,452.593,36 Budget Expenses 30.331.878.80 Canceled Grant 20,117,736,48 Transferred to the Next Year 2.978.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 43,868,000.00 Net Collection 42.654.639.33 Ret and Returns (-) 105,217,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.92) STRIKE UNIVERSE B) Iğdır University Central Management Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 59,277,011,09 Budget Expenses 46.926.739.09 Canceled allowance 12.350.272.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 37.124,000.00 Net Collection 44.422.371,38 Ret and Returns (-) 146,35 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.93) SIRNAK UNIVERSE B) Şırnak University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 44,460,224,72 Budget Expenses 33.469.405.54 Canceled allowance 10.970.727.08 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 20.092,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 38.017,000.00 Net Collection 42,620,825,25 Ret and Returns (-) 19.301,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.94) TUNCEL UNIVERSITY B) Tunceli University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 50,238,145,48 Budget Expenses 43.078.324.71 Canceled Fund 7.130.882,45 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 28.938,32 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 43,462,000.00 Net Collection 50,568,324,55 Ret and Returns (-) 74,179,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.95) YALOVA UNIVERSE B) Yalova University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 47,971,898,72 Budget Expenses 40.516.384.71 Cancelled Fund 7,293,443,95 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 162.070.06 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 38,955,000.00 Net Collection 48.197.658.06 Ret and Returns (-) 100,135,92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.96) Turkish German University B) Turkey's German University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 17.879.000.00 Budget Expenses 6,380.273.29 Canceled Fund 11.498.726.71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 16.272,000.00 Net Collection 17.784.484,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.97) YEDIRIM BEYAZIT UNIVERSITY B) Yıldırım Akıt University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 44,051,967,59 Budget Expenses 31,004.678.90 Canceled allowance 12.970.745.94 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 76,542,75 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 22.743.000.00 Net Collection 31.477.687.99 Ret and Returns (-) 235,423,45 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.98) BURSA TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Bursa Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 22.163.025.08 Budget Expenses 11.915.162.99 Canceled Fund 10,228,478,29 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 19,383,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 15,653,000,00 Net Collection 14.782.576,74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 38.99) ISTANBUL UNIVERSE B) İstanbul Civility University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 31.389.997.65 Budget Expenses 22.444.307.52 Canceled Fund 8.912.153.01 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 33,537,12 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 15,374,000.00 Net Collection 28.375.757,97 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.01) UNIVERSITY OF EMPLOYMENT B) İzmir Kıtip Çelebi University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total grant 39,186,949,72 Budget Expenses 29.608.266.87 Canceled allowance 9.530.976.49 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 47,706,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 20.146,000.00 Net Collection 26.974.952.94 Ret and Returns (-) 25.320,11 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.02) THE UNIVERSE OF NECMETIN B) Necmettin Erbakan University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total Payment 97.208.556.02 Budget Expenses 85,948,352,40 Canceled allowance 11.040.846.83 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 219,356,79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 16,408,000.00 Net Collection 91,768,909,69 Ret and Returns (-) 40.316.47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.03) U.S.A. GÜL UNIVERSITY B) Abdullah Gul University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 29.399.814.65 Budget Expenses 16,617.164.92 Cancelled Fund 12,782,649,73 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 18,458,000.00 Net Collection 18.961.199.49 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.04) ERZURUUM TECHNIC UNIVERSITY B) Erzurum Technical University Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 23.643.241.65 Budget Expenses 10,783,211,12 Canceled allowance 12.860.030,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 16,412,000.00 Net Collection 16,137,248,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 39.05) THE UNIVERSE OF ADANA AND TEKNOLOJI B) Adana University of Science and Technology Central Management Final Account for 2012 [[TL]] Total allowance 10.769.000.00 Budget Expenses 9.531.739.16 Canceled Fund 1,237,260,84 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. [[TL]] Net Collection 10.003.185.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Environment and Cherishing, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, National Ministry of Education, Higher Education Board, The Chairman of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, and the central management budgets of universities in 2014 have been approved and final accounts of central management in 2012. We wish him well. Congressmans, the ninth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, I close the merger to meet at ten on Monday (December 16th 2013) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively.
