tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 132nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our workers, known in public as the victims of stoning, who work in denim sanding workshops, are under threat of deadly "cylicosis." Many workers are suffering from siliconic disease because of working conditions that are inadequate for job safety and labour health. We propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98, 104, 105, and 105, in order to investigate the working conditions of the denigration workers, to determine measures to be taken in terms of employment and job safety. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Artvin]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] 9) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] 15) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 16) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 17. Ali Serindağ [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Antalya]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] 28) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] The quarry, the denim stoning workshop, the tunnel and other mining workers are under threat of "cylicosis" because they inhaled the silica dust for a long time. This disease, such as shortness of breath, cough, fatigue, chest pain, bruising, affects many of the workers who work in these workplaces, and therefore many workers lose their lives. At the top of the most common areas of this disease, which is difficult to diagnose, are denim stoning workshops. Silikosis, based on the stoning of jeans, was first seen in our country in 2005, and has become one of the major problems in our country due to the lack of proper measures. Almost all of the textiles and denim workshops have workers working on average 12 hours a day. Because the sand used in this line of work is special and expensive, employers are not allowed to install ventilation systems at workplaces, or even windows at many workplaces, so that the sand is not lost. In other words, employees are pushed into the grip of the deadly slycosis disease for greater gain. The absence of work safety and forced ventilation systems, even if found, and the use of special clothes to prevent workers from breathing the air that is mixed with sand dust, are especially causing the denim-bolt workers to be exposed to dense dust for long hours. One of the striking examples of the problems of cot stoning workers is in the village of Taşlıçay in Karlıova district of Bingol Province, Turkey. In this village, 168 citizens are in the grip of this deadly disease. Again, so far, seven of our citizens have died of the same disease in this village. The monthly legal arrangement that binds Silikos patients to the Absorbs Act took effect on 25 February 2011, but the three-month application period for patients to benefit from this law ends on 24 May 2011, prevents our citizens who are unaware of the arrangement or later diagnosed with this disease from taking advantage of the arrangement. This is a striking example of the problems caused by a period of time in which the use of a right to human health is subject to. Despite the conditions of the denim stoning workshops and the public's public responses to health problems caused by these conditions, measures are not being taken by the government. Thousands of our workers continue to work in these workshops. This negative picture, which is often criticised by international labour organisations and trade unions, is not possible for human health to be accepted, affecting our country's prestige in a negative way. It is important to establish a research commission in order to determine the working conditions of those working in the denim, the denim stoning workshop, the tunnel and other mining works, to make these workplaces in line with the relevant legislation and the current conditions, to prevent our citizens from losing their lives due to heavy working conditions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The problems with women's employment in Turkey are necessary to open parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the dimensions of intersex wage inequality, increase female employment, and determine measures to address wage inequality. [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Artvin]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 7) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Balıkesir]] 11) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] 17) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Aydın]] 29) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] There are serious problems in women's employment in Turkey. In the years in which the AKP was in charge, there have been serious setbacks in women's employment. The women's turnout was 34.3 per cent in 1998, while as of November 2011, the rate was reduced to 28.3 per cent. Most of the women in working life are also unregistered, so they're not registered at a social security agency. Our women are employed in intensive sectors, without social security and in prison for low income. The principle of equality in the Constitution and Business Act 4857 states that "no lower fee can be determined because of gender for a job of equal or equal value." Despite its ruling, the lack of employment of women and the inequality of wages between sexes are a serious problem. Studies among European Union countries show that women who do the same work receive 17 per cent less than men. In OECD countries, it is reported to be at 15%. In Turkey, no concrete information is available. Violence against women in Turkey is serious. Violence is not entirely preventable unless women are strongly involved in social life. In this context, our women must first be given qualified education and have a place in working life. It is not possible for a country to be modern and successful in public life and in working life that does not include women. As soon as Turkey takes steps to boost women's employment, it must bring their women to a strong social life. He must quickly step away from his understanding of women as cheap labor. For these reasons, parliamentary research is required to determine the sizes of women's employment and measures that will allow women to participate in employment with equal rights and equal wages. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Investigating Parliamental investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution of the Constitution, on the basis of Articles 98 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the violations of the rape and harassment of convicted prisoners under the age of 18 and under the circumstances of rape and harassment. With all due respect. 1) Osman Faruk Logogoğlu [[Adana]] [[Adana]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Denizli]] 15) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 16) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 22) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] 30) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] 33) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] Reports from the Adana Posant Children's Closed Prison (M type prison) that prisoners under 18 years of age have been subjected to torture and abuse, including practices of rape and harassment, have been published in the national and local media in February. Children in prison have stated that they have been severely beaten by guards, that they have been subjected to insult and torture because they are Kurds, that they have been forced to stay with judicial prisoners, that they have been forced to kiss flags, that they have been fined by the elderly, that their food and clothing have been seized, that they have been harassed and raped. Until February 2012, Human Rights Association, Çukurova University Medical Faculty Judiciary Review Board and Turkey's Human Rights Foundation Adana Branch, particularly the Ministry of Justice, have reported their complaints to authorities concerning what happened in Posanti Prison. Representatives of lawmakers and NGOs who have been studying and interviewing the families of imprisoned children have stated that authorities have serious negligence and incentives regarding the incidents, and that no measures have been taken by the authorities until it comes to the press. The Ministry of Justice has stated that after the events in the prison have been reported to the press, it will be done with a statement and those responsible will be punished. The children in Posanti Prison have been transferred to Sincan Prison, and the director of Posant Prison has been transferred to Ankara. The second director of the prison, which the children most complain about, was appointed the first director of Van Ercish Prison. These measures, taken by the ministry, have brought criticism that children are more isolated than their families and that those responsible are rewarded with promotion. Tortures in Posant Prison have also raised concerns about violations of international contracts in the area of human rights, which Turkey is a party to. These are the violations of agreements and agreements that have been considered violated: 1) The Children's Rights Contract [[2, 3, 6, 16, 19, 20, 24, 27, 34, 37, 39, 40, 42]] 2) International Convention on Civil and Political Rights [[24]] 3) International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights [[10]] 4) A Contract Against Torture and Other Cruel Involuntary Humanity or Humiliating Opposition or Punishment [[2, 4, 12, 13, 14]] 5) European Convention on Children's Rights [[8, 12]] The questions of NGOs and public opinion, particularly the children and relatives of whom they have been tortured about what happened in Posanti Prison, remain unanswered, their concerns are not satisfied. Serious findings against the violation of international contracts and the 90th article of the Constitution shall be taken into consideration. Therefore, it is vital that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and 105 of the Constitution, should be launched in order to investigate and determine those who are negligent in the public area and ensure that the conditions of the children's prisons be met with our international commitments. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council adopted Decision 1701 (2006) on 11/8/2006 and contributed to the Turkish Grand National Assembly's 5/9/2006 resolution for a year under its mandate with the 880th Amendment, with the elements of the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon. The length of the permit is finally extended by a year from the year 5/9/2012, dated 29/6/2012 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey has been instrumental in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has made a significant contribution to increased visibility in all parts of the Lebanese community, and its policy to maintain peace and stability, through both regional and global civil-military cooperation activities within the United Nations system. UNIFIL is the only United Nations Peace Force operation our country has contributed to, and it is considered important that we continue to contribute to UNIFIL Naval Task Force, considering the fact that we are already running for the United Nations Security Council. UNIFIL is due to expire on 31/8/2013 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after that. In light of these issues and in view of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, I will allow the Turkish Armed Forces elements, which will be defined by the government, to participate in the UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year, under the principles determined by the United Nations Security Council Resolution 880, and in accordance with the principles determined by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to participate in the UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year, and to make the necessary arrangements to be carried out by the Government. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister's Office has been read. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. I promise the groups, the government, and two members on behalf of the individual. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who took over Tezkere: Yıldırım Tuğul Türkesh, Ankara MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Ertuğul Kürkcu on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Mersin MP; Osman Taney Korturk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İstanbul MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Volcano Bozkır on behalf of the İstanbul MP. On behalf of his people, Akyan Erdemir, Bursa MP; Emrullah İslam, Ankara MP. On behalf of the government, Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of National Defence. The first word is Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0002par0249	Mr. President, in order to maintain peace in Lebanon, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to contribute UNIFIL and Turkey's armed forces for another year, with respect to the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in my speech about UNIFIL again last year's extension, there is a Turkish miracle that has been transplanted every day since the ages, as much as Turkish sovereignty and independence is the target of these attacks on the fall of Turkish aircraft by Syria and other developments in the region. I told you. For this reason, the understanding of the university state is important. The order of the Republic is important for the equality of opportunity for everyone, without looking at differences, without looking at certain features. Democracy is vital because of its rights, its freedoms, but also because of its responsibilities. The national identity, which is Turkishness, is to make the thousands of small groups of large people gathered together for a great nation, in and out of its home and inextricable. We, the National Movement Party, have repeatedly said that we find the government's politics in Arab Spring wrong, seriously criticised, our warnings were not heard or listened to by the authorities. Again, in the same speech, we had always stressed that it was better for countries in the region to reach democracy with their own channels and dynamics, and that Turkey should not have too much engagement -- regarding Syria -- in the process. We are aware, and we see that there are many dictatorial regimes in the region, and there is a certain desire for democratisation at the public level, but that desire is often suppressed and ignored. Dictatorship, Fascism is bad; it is contrary to human rights and human dignity. They should be opposed to the end, but as we can see in Iraq, export politics often fails and often backfires; it causes division, disintegration. Dear lawmakers, we favor the territorial integrity of our neighbors. Because we live in a turbulent and sensitive geography. The territorial integrity of our neighbors is also a guarantee of ours. These lines are from last year's speech just to remind you. Dear friends, after these quotes, it is evident that the political government has not heeded any warnings from the opposition and has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that our state, based on serious strategies to become a regional force, will follow permanent, consistent politics. After the first events of Tahrir in Egypt, the AKP's government went to Egypt after Mubarak was suspended and made deals with the junta under Tantavi, and made statements that could mean that the new administration was an acceptable government. Today, in Egypt, he emphasises the antidemocratic rule of the revolution, which began in Tahrir, which dismissed the elected president. Don't you think that's a tentacle? The Tantavi government appointed by Mubarak is accepted, but what, for God's sake, did you not like it when the Al Sisi, whom Mursi had appointed, took the opposition, the religious leaders, and the figures he was sure would be accepted in the West? Aren't you the government who said, "What is NATO doing here on the first day during Libyan events?" and then said, "Let NATO intervene in Libya in 24 hours." Will your relationship with this new administration, which the European Union has been trying to abstain from, and the Western government has opposed to calling it a revolution, develop as you did today, or will you do so in the past days, as you have done in the past? Dear lawmakers, do not take these words as saying that we welcome non-democratic practices in Egypt as the National Movement Party or support the intervention of those who have been elected to take over. We're against it, we've always been against it, and we'll always be against it. I'm just trying to draw attention to the political government's foreign policy, which is not put into an uncertain macro strategy filled with zigzacs, curves and curves. Wasn't Bezar Al-Assad, who you claimed was your brother, turned into an enemy by you shortly after making a joint cabinet of ministers with Syria and holding hands in your own words? Can you consider the point you've made on the top of the Turkish agenda for over two years as a success? More importantly, because of the wrong practices we know and can predict in refugee camps, you did not receive the assistance offered by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for refugees, nor did you benefit from the 257m-euro funding proposed by the European Union. You've spent the rights of the strange guru that you've made every opportunity to cover the costs of these camps, as if they were just a matter of Turkey. Now I'm asking you, do you have no regrets from where we came from today? When it comes to Lebanon and the Middle East, of course, it is not possible to pass without referring to your wrong practices with Turkmen. In Iraq, it was also the fate of the Turks in Syria that led to the destruction, slaughter, and forced migration, and the lack of ownership burned them as well. What's even more dangerous in this region is politics between the West and Iran, and it's political power's uncertain attitude of comings and goings. I would like to take this opportunity to warn you that while Iran has been pursuing the right policy in the last ten years, it's been a real risk to Turkey. Dear MPs, after the incident with the Blue Marmara, the apology crisis with Israel apologised to our government. However, in Israel, the official website of the Prime Minister's office -- please pay attention here -- we regret it if we caused accidental death or injury during the operation. I mean, they've actually agreed that they have no regrets for nine of our citizens who were killed on purpose with bullets from three guns. Even if we accept that for a moment that what you say is true, then, I am also in Gaza in May. I think you should explain to the Supreme Assembly today why the statement of Mr. Ismail Haniye on July 5, when he last visited Turkey. Not to mention that during his last visit to the United States in May, the legal representation of Palestine was insisted upon by Abu Mazen, Mahmoud Abbas in Ramallah. Yes, after taking a tour of events in the Middle East, I finally say this is a positive view of the current organisation of the National Party of Action, which believes that the elements of the armed forces related to UNIFIL exist under the umbrella of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Lebanon, where they have political or cultural savings over various states. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0003par0262	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0265	Mr. President, dear friends, we're going to make a decision here for another thesis. Are we or are we not going to remove a statement authorizing the government to deploy Turkish Armed Forces troops to contribute the UNIFIL Peace Corps to the UNIFIL Peace Corps? Since 2006, has it been seven times since Turkey's Grand National Assembly? Should it take another eight? In fact, we believe that there is no need for this thesis, that there is no need for the armed forces to be deployed abroad, and that we cannot speak of a meaningful military presence because Turkey's contribution to this Marine Task Force is extremely limited. In general, after the Cold War of the Turkish Armed Forces and Turkish governments, after the collapse of the new world order of the Soviet Union, there is a general line in the region that has not changed in the period of all governments changing in order to present flags outside its borders, exercise military assets and influence in countries in the region, thus giving it a mandate of a region. We can see that this line itself is troubled, that it actually reflects its desire to be included as a subsidiary, as a subsidiary, as a subsidiary of the regional share issue. All of these are non-peaceful, hegemonic, enlargementary policies that escalate regional competition, instead of ending inter-governmental feuds, which lead to a direct relationship between peoples and peoples, and instead to join one side with the other through armed forces. Thus, the word "peace" is actually a character that is contrary to the action that has been carried out. Therefore, we feel that such a role does not need to be played. Second: The presence of such a task force in Lebanon was primarily the result of Israel's regional politics. Israel's regional policy was primarily aimed at liquidating Hezbollah in Lebanon, liquidating Hezbollah's military presence, and liquidating Hezbollah's influence on the government of Lebanon. However, because there was a peacekeeping force involved -- or not for any other reason -- the people of Lebanon's very determined resistance, as well as the Palestinian refugees stationed in Lebanon, as well as all the political forces in Lebanon and Lebanon, who had the sole strength to resist the Israeli attack on Lebanon, we can finally say that this is the end of the general agreement against Israel's regional politics, foreign policy. Therefore, the ability to maintain this peace situation or non-conflict situation is more a matter of political balance than the presence of a military force, capacity and ability of a limited military force. If the political balance develops on the axis of Hezbollah, the defensive forces in Lebanon, the partnership of the region forces that oppose Israel's foreign policy, Lebanon will be secure, and other countries will be secure. But the fundamental question here is this: talking about Lebanon's safety on the one hand, mentioning that the military presence in Lebanon is necessary for Lebanon's safety, for the end of Israel's attacks in southern Lebanon, but on the other hand, it does not match the realities of a constant conflict with the region's governments, which are the most important components of this alliance. More specifically, Turkey will be in conflict with Iran on the one hand, facing Syria on the other, facing the Shiite forces in the region as well as contributing to Lebanon's security. These two are as much oxymoron as talking about dry water as a complement that the first term denies the second term. Therefore, Turkey can't consider itself contributing to Lebanon's security unless it is primarily reviewing its foreign policy, regional politics. The foreign policy of the government ruling Turkey is mainly about revitalising Turkish influence in the former Ottoman insurgency. Hence, the desire to display flags in the region, in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in the Middle East. This is not only in the government that rules Turkey today, but also in the conservative elements of the armed forces, a trend in the thinking centers of Turkey's Turkish-Islam synthesis, which exist in think clubs, which are more or less self-proclaimed in all parties. To become regional power, to return to the Ottoman insurgency, and thus to raise Turkey to the level of murky civilizations. Now, of course, this is another oxymoron. How are you going to become infected by the Ottoman insurgency, and how are you actually going to accept all the dates, all the national identities, the Ottoman occupation, the countries that have been formed in the fight against Ottoman sovereignty, in your own influence? So in the history of all modern times before Turkey, the Ottomans before Turkey, against the invading, spreading politics of the Republic of Turkey, against Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, and North Africa, you will reassemble yourself as a superior force by means of your armed forces. It is clear that all Arab countries have a common objection. Therefore, Turkey must first deal with its foreign policy, which positioned itself on the Sunni axis against the Shii axis, which it now condemns itself on the axis of the United States of America. Look, when we carefully review the situation in Egypt, which was taken out of power under the pressure of the army and replaced by an active political representative in Egypt, the government of Turkey says: "There has been a coup here, we condemn those who don't condemn it." On the other hand, there is no sound in Saudi Arabia, which supports the coup on the first day, and there is no sound in Qatar. Well, then where is the explanation of this contradiction? Of course, the explanation of this contradiction is also related to the Sunni axis line against the Shii axis, which Turkey puts itself face to face with the Syrian issue. So it's very difficult to say that there are any indications of intimacy here when the Prime Minister is talking about intimacy from morning to evening. Today, one of the main reasons for the coup in Egypt and its great rebellion against the Mursi government is that the government of Mursi has insisted on joining this axis to support the Free Syrian Army in Syria over the past months. Therefore, it does not convince us that the right policy is being followed in the region today by defending its own foundations, its own legitimacy, its own self-destroying power, and its head in the name of formal law principles alone. On the other hand, the great public uprising, which lies behind the overthrow of the Mursi government in Egypt today, is the worst foreign policy analysis of the 22 million signed actions by the Temerrüt Movement, which Mursi. Once again, the Egyptian people stood up to carry out the second move of the great wave of revolutions that knocked down Mubarak, but armed forces have now led the poor, the workers, the women, the young people of Egypt towards the centre of power, saying that they have adopted all the demands of the Temerrut Movement, saying that Mursi's government had adopted the government's new regime, which had co-operated with the military. Therefore, the millions of people of Egypt, the libertarians of Tahrir, are gathered from here to the seats of Maroth, throwing fireworks. You can't make a mockery of them. Just as we can't count the poor who are gathered around Mursi, the Ihvan Movement, the tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of people gathered in Adeviye Square, out of Egypt, no one can count them except Tahrir. The point is: Egypt is under the burden of two great traditional forces to establish its own reality, its own freedom of the people, its own real power: on one hand the political domination of the traditional Islamic bourgeois, the rule of the military bourgeois of the armed forces on the other. This is not a slip of the tongue, it is the largest capitalist army in Egypt itself. In this regard, Tahrir was born again as a means of freedom to the peoples who are fighting for their freedom in Egypt against the rift today. So it's all about whether or not you're here with the public. It's a matter of form, eventually, at the end of the day, to stand by the chest. The Ark is the virtue of politics. It's easy to say. It's the most important thing to stand by the people, to stand by the people's honor.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0005par0273	The Ark is the people.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0274	There are millions of people's wills, millions of people's rebellions, millions of people's objections. You can't just say and push these objections away, like in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0005par0275	The will of the people is determined in the chest.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0276	There are no marauders there, there are millions of people there, there are workers, there are poor people, there are people working hard. You have to talk about politics about how to protect their rights.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0005par0277	The will of the people is determined in the chest.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0278	When you can't put that policy out there, you can eventually walk in the shadow of the United States of America's regional politics. So you can't say a word to the United States of America, you can't say anything to Europe. What did America do? America is the greatest international regulator of today's revolution being stolen by the military, so you don't speak to it. Saudi Arabia said that it knew the coup that day, and you didn't speak to Saudi Arabia; you are French, and you speak to the European Union looking from afar.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0005par0279	We're calling them all, all of them.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0280	The truth's out there, so don't beat around the bush. You can't play politics with words. Come and tell me here. You can tell us what you support the Mursi regime for, which has lost public approval and is not wanted by the public. It's not the general principle of politics here. If so, you should also object to the fall of Mubarak. Didn't the army overthrow Mubarak? The important thing is the power and amplitude of the people's movement, which surrounds all Egypt. All Egypt's forces for progress, for democracy, for freedom are now in Tahrir. Therefore, it is only natural that those gathered at Adeviye Square and those gathered at Tahrir would look at one another, but standing before the modern central Egyptian politics that divides the people between the army and Mursi is as important as this. Therefore, we signed a statement issued yesterday by the Parliament's Human Rights Commission. Without saying anything, we said we did not consent to the change of hands in non-peaceful ways, in ways not defined by politics. But it is no place for people who have fought for days, nights and nights, to lose their efforts, to expect them to give up their own needs, their own demands, their own desires for freedom, and to curse them from here, our own comfortable seats, to declare them marauders, coupgers. We are with Tahrir, and we are in Tahrir, and Tahrir is in Gezir, and the trip is in Tahrir. Tahrir is the only dynamic of freedom in Egypt, and we will continue to be with this dynamic of freedom. The holdover of the armed forces is another thing, a mass that stands up -- millions of -- is another thing that makes a sound in Tahrir. He can't make that distinction, he can't read politics, and he can't draw a meaningful line in Middle Eastern politics. We clearly have to emphasize that Turkey cannot exert any influence in the Middle East with a sectarian foreign policy on a Sunni axis in the shadow of the United States of America in the region. The Eastern people there are pluralists, like Turkey, with many identities. Each country is made up of Shii, Sunni, Christian, Jew, many sects and religions; many languages are spoken, many nationalities are present here. All of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, the liberal, anti-emperianist, democratic, hegemonia; building an international policy on human rights, women's rights, the rights of labor; it's a thousand times better than sending soldiers to any peacekeeping force; it's a thousand times better. It's very simple and easy to do this, but it requires power, will, respect for basic human rights, it requires commitment to freedom; it wants to see that there are other tools of democracy besides the chest; it's people's game every day, they're giving it again every day. If the people have changed their mind in four or five years from one trunk to the other to the other, then if you have no mechanism to measure it, then you have said, "We think so, we think so." If it is the will of the people that matters, the people will present it in the squares. There has never been a democracy without a square. There's no decent democracy. It's the power's job to listen when the squares speak. They vote with their feet in the square, they vote with their hands in the chest.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0006par0285	What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0286	You have to count the votes used by foot, and everywhere people use their rebellion against the world domination of the United States, against the governments in its shadow, against those who cooperate with it. Brazil, Egypt, Turkey, Italy, Portugal; everywhere, everywhere, the squares will win, dictators will lose, armies will lose.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0007par0287	You mean lift the chest?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0288	Don't lift the trunk, bring the chest, but maybe you'll have to put it in early.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0007par0289	Maybe.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0290	Don't you ever think about that? Don't you ever think of that?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0007par0291	Isn't the chest more important?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0292	Come on, let's go to the trunk! Come on, are you leaving tomorrow? Let's see if there is, tomorrow!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0007par0293	Is it the box or the square?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0008par0294	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0295	Let's go, let's do it tomorrow. What if...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0007par0296	Is it the box or the square?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0008par0297	Let's not interfere with your honor, please.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0298	Let's do it tonight, let's go, let's go, let's go! What if... I thought you loved her so much.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0009par0299	Come on, let's see it.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0010par0300	Tell me if it's a box or a square.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0301	The square and the chest.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0010par0302	The box or the square?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0303	Not just the chest, not just the square. The public will express their views everywhere, and speak openly every day.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0011par0304	We're in the square, we're in the trunk!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0305	He will speak with his chest, speak with his square, walk with his feet, and vote with his hands. And you have to count them.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0012par0306	The fast lefter of the old one became the coupger.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0307	If you don't count it, they'll count it, you'll count it. History is filled with bodies of governments, dictatorships, who are thought to be indispensable, capable. All the graves are filled with the funerals of dictators who are considered indispensable; therefore, no one is indispensable, no one is greater than the people, no one is greater than the workers, no one is greater than the workers.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0013par0308	You're right, the graveyards are full of indispensable people.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0004par0309	Yeah, just like you're gonna go. Therefore, when you live in this world, learn to count the votes they use with their feet for the happiness of the people in this world, for the well-being of the people in this world. We don't send soldiers to this peacekeeping force, but we send greetings to Tahrir.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0014par0312	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Osman Taney Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0015par0315	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the thesis submitted to the Grand National Assembly by the Government under Article 92 of the Constitution, in order that the Turkish Armed Forces serve the United Nations Peace Corps in Lebanon for another year. I salute you all. Before we begin, I'd like to point out that there's been a change in the arrival of this thesis this year. This year it was brought before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before the UN Security Council in Lebanon decided to extend the mandate of UNIFIL Peacekeeping Force, which was intended to be taken. Therefore, our vote here will only apply if the United Nations Security Council makes this decision. We, the Republican People's Party, see Turkish Armed Forces as being able to participate in legitimate UN legitimacy, the United Nations Peacekeeping Force operations, both in the United Nations and in the interest of strengthening Turkey's weight within the United Nations, as well as in serving world peace and regional peace, as well as in increasing the experience of Turkish Armed Forces in international operations. Therefore, we will vote positively as Republican People's Party, as we did in previous years. Dear friends, it certainly doesn't mean that we're going to vote positively for this dissertation, that we approve and approve of the very wrong, very wrong policy, and the government's general foreign policy in this area over the past four years. I'd like to record this right here. I made an important point in my speech on Lebanese again on behalf of the group last year. This important point was that our economic interests in the Eastern Mediterranean are not looked after by the government. Lebanon is a Middle East country that deals with the Greek Cypriot administration on this issue to determine the specific economic region. Lebanon and the government were very close at that time. Perhaps this closeness today was shaken by the position of Hezbollah and Hezbollah in Syria. However, the government has not been able to prevent the Lebanese government from making a separate Economic District Agreement with the Greek Cypriot administration. Later, he did so with Egypt, Israel, and many countries in the region and the Greek Cypriot administration. At the point where we're here today, South Cyprus has come to the stage of the creation of major and serious facilities for liquefying natural gas from the region, which it has done with Israel and is extracting from the eastern Mediterranean. Over the course of a year, despite our warning last year, the government has not made any progress in this matter with the Lebanese government or other governments, with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the Turkish Cypriot people and beyond that, the Republic of Turkey and our people's interests in the Eastern Mediterranean. I'm highlighting this point. I call upon the government to act on this matter before it is too late. Dear friends, at a meeting where we are all present, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu wanted to come here and explain a Syrian policy by doing something very rare. When he spoke of the Middle East, he said: "We are the owners, leaders, and servants of the Middle East. Claiming that he is the owner of the Middle East is a great claim, and a claim that does not look good by Arab countries, the original owner of the Middle East. Now, if we take a look at the developments in the Middle East today, when something happened in Syria, Mr. Secretary said the Syrian President would be leaving in a week or two. It's been a long two years, and the Syrian President has consolidated, consolidated his status in his country, let alone go. Events in Libya still remain unresolved, unknown. Tunisia will go either this way or this way on a thin knife. What we call the Arab Spring is no longer spring. From the beginning, we were saying that it would not be spring and that a new imperialism could be a tool for creating in this region, and we were drawing attention to that. Unfortunately, it's heading this way. Now, does the Minister still think that Turkey is the owner, leader and servant of the Middle East? If he does, it's very sad for Turkey and for us. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister were also saying that nothing can be done in this area without Turkey being asked. Nothing can be done in the world without Turkey being asked, and we are the quarterbacks here. Did we stage the coup in Egypt, or did Turkey stage it, or did they ask us? Is there anything asked of Turkey in this region today? When you look at the area, we are at odds with Iran. Lebanese and Hezbollah, our situation is complicated. We're almost at war with Syria. Iraq has now moved away from us, under the influence of some sectarian approaches, and has become guided by Iran. We all know the situation in Egypt. In Egypt, literally a year ago, millions of people rose up to escape the oppression of Mubarak. The freedom and democracy that millions of people expressed ended in elections after a military interim regime intervened. During the past year, Ihvan and Mursi, the candidate for Ihvan (Ihvan), who had run the elections in Egypt, began to adopt all the methods, all the methods, all the methods, and not long ago, the crowd gathered in Tahrir Square, and overturned Mubarek (Mubarek), stood up in Egypt, for about 30 million people. This rebellion was not read correctly by Mursi, but he insisted, and, unfortunately, when he did, it was a very sad development, and the armed forces in Egypt struck a blow and seized the government. Friends, we've seen this movie many times before as Turkey. Unfortunately, as Turkey, we've had coups and military intervention. We've been through a lot of trouble, a lot of damage. Now, after we've gone through this, when we look at it from a distance, when we look at the past, we can say, if these blows never happened, if the demands of freedom and democracy had developed within the flow of politics, maybe today our democracy would become a much brighter, much brighter real democracy. We know from our own experience that impacts don't solve problems. The impacts are multiplying and multiplying the problems and reproducing them. After the period of the coup, the problems that have been passed sit on the country's agenda at its worst, and the countries are suffering a great deal under them, being crushed. It's impossible for him to look at the blows with a nice eye, try to understand the blows. We are aware of that as Turkey, and perhaps Turkey can set an example in the region, this issue. Turkey is now a country with a total blow in its democracy. Today there is no coup in Turkey. No, and it can't be. But let's all know that there's going to be a coup in Turkey. Let's not say what others say or imply. There's no such thing. When the phenomenon called "Arab Spring" came out, it was thought, spoken, asked, could Turkey be an example of democracy around here? The idea in the minds of those who said, "Can Turkey be an example of democracy?" A Muslim country has reached the point of implementing a full - time democracy. Thus, Turkey can be an example of this region. There is a very important point, my friends, that those who say so are missing. Religion and democracy, yes, Turkey has associated. Isn't there something missing in his democracy? There are many flaws, but as a result, governments come by election, they go by election, and Turkey is a democratic country. He'll cover his losses, he'll complete them, but Turkey has a glue that connects religion with democracy. Those who say, "Will Turkey be an example or not?" miss it. It's clingy secularism. Without secularism, there is no possibility or possibility that religion without flexibility and democracy that requires great flexibility will come together. This is the lack of countries called Egypt and other Arab Spring -- I say it in a nail -- that is the lack of countries. I'm not the one who thinks the Prime Minister is always so right, but he did tell a truth, and when he went to Egypt, he told them about secularism and about the virtues of secularism. He's had a huge reaction. They couldn't see what secularism was or what secularism was. And because they can't see, they have a long way to go for democracy. But as Turkey, we have to set an example -- if we're to set an example -- of the progress of our democracy, my friends. When you say democracy is progressing, I now see travel events, which I've been involved in, that I've been involved in, that I've been watching very carefully in the background. But the gas, the water, the chemical, the baton, the plastic bullet that was pointed at people who expressed extremely democratic, extremely peaceful, extremely positive demands in these Trip events, was like a war scene in front of me, where we were there, and we had to take refuge in hotels with some of my fellow lawmakers. And then we went out again, but it was like a war scene, guys. Look, there are 30 million people in Egypt on the street, where we don't see such a battlefield. The army seized it, no gas, no TOMA, no chemical water. Now, we need to look at a little bit of this democracy of ours. Unfortunately, our understanding of democracy is in harmony with Mursi. But Turkey's conditions are much more advanced. Today, we are 50 years ahead of Egypt. We need to take democracy as democracy, not democracy, but pluralism. The way most people come forward, the regimes are not democracy; pluralism has to come forward. We've got 50 votes per cent. You're saying it's a number that's possible to argue with, I don't care, but if this is 50 percent, you should know that most of the people who voted for you in this 50 percent game voted for stability and peace of mind. Yeah, we don't have a coup, thank God, and it won't happen, but that's not how stability can be protected. If you want to maintain stability in the streets, you have to listen to democratic demands and the desires of the masses who have not voted for you. As for foreign policy again, dear friends, today Turkey must come to its senses. Turkey must gather its senses and rethink its view of both the Middle East and the West and the world by giving up pointless allegations, unnecessary preemptive measures, making solid assessments. A columnist used a nice title the other day, and I'd like to bring that title to your attention, the department of the enemy said. The State Department is a very prestigious institution, a very well-instructed institution, and we need to quickly remove this institution from the ministry of enemies and make it the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we need to give up the dreams and look at the facts. Look, would it not be possible for Turkey to draw attention to a country in its region and the world, to have its importance, to be liked, to be liked, to be spoken as an example? It is not because Turkey's Ottoman past or regional leadership or the community's service, but because a country with almost all Muslims is a Western country, but also because it is a Muslim and Western country. We need to revisit our relations with this West. Mr. Prime Minister, the West has failed in its stance on Egyptian affairs. Now, he's in the classroom, he's out of class, those are words that don't make sense. Why words that don't make sense? There is no return for them, and there is no return for them for us, and there is no end for them. If they said they weren't violent, why didn't they say so, why didn't they say so? They said, "Why don't we do a good analysis?" Foreign policy is based on the national interest of countries. And they say, "What is their national interest, and which are some of our national interests that are incompatible and incompatible?" We need to do a good analysis of these. We don't have anything to do with it, we have nothing to do with it, we have nothing to do with it. We need to make Turkey a stable, stable country that has a place in the ancient Western world, which has a good place in it, which has a good place in the old Western world, to make a good influence on the East, to seek stability, to make stability, to listen to the word. Turkey has made serious contributions to many peacekeeping forces, not only in Lebanon, but in many places in the world, but not only to contribute to peacekeeping, but also to peace and democracy with its position and location. We need to rethink our network of relationships in the Middle East. We need to rethink our relations with the world. We need to focus a little bit more on the European Union. Look, democracy, freedom, rights, basic rights and freedoms, women's rights, laborers' rights, human rights, unfortunately... I'm saying it's a pity because there's a thought in the East's progress. There is a certain advance in the economic field, where the East is progressing, perhaps, but far beyond the progress of the East, unfortunately, the right standards of all these rights are the right standards, the most modern standards are the Western standards again. So, we need to stick to these Western standards. We need to get up and move our relations with countries in these areas forward, not on individuals, parties, or political trends, but on national interests among peoples, between countries. Otherwise, you'll give 2 billion credits from personal relationships like we gave to Egypt at work, and the safe that took those 2 billion loans will be searched right now, and you'll get away with it. Dear friends, I always bring this foreign policy to your attention. I bring you to your attention. When I say, you have a strong group of 326. Each one of you is elected by the people, each of you is responsible, each of you is lawmakers doing this for the service. Take this into your hands, not just in the hands of the government, but also in your hands, and ask your government what is going on and what is happening? Read a piece, see what they think of Turkey outside, what the government says, these two don't match. It's more your problem than the Republican People's Party, because you have power over your government. In 1955 -- I said this once again from this bench -- the Democratic Party -- which you always say as one of your predecessors -- Adnan had menderes resigning his government, one by one, to his ministers, because he didn't like his foreign policy, his economy. Don't let anyone resign, but ask them where they're going, where they're going, where they're all going. If you don't ask us, we'll always keep asking in front of this chair and in front of everyone, and we'll try to show you the right way, to find the right way, and to find you all together. On this occasion, UNIFIL repeats that we have voted positively for the extension of UNIFIL's mandate by the United Nations Security Council on the condition that a decision is made on this road, and I wish the success of the heroic Turkish officer, Petty Officer, Petty Officer and privates, who will serve within UNIFIL. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0016par0337	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0017par0340	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to explain the reasons for the government's statement on the extension of Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Interim Task Force to extend one more year to our supreme Parliament. I salute you all. The United Nations Interim Task Force UNIFIL was established on 11 August 2006 by the United Nations Security Council's 1701 decision. Based on the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region, the Supreme Assembly has approved that the Turkish Armed Forces elements, which will be established by the government, will participate in UNIFIL, with decision 880, which Turkey has made on 5 September 2006. In this framework, elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, including UNIFIL forces, have been deployed in the region since October 2006. A memorandum of understanding and assistance has been signed between the secretary of Turkey and the United Nations to pay back the costs of our troops attending UNIFIL. In this framework, our military assets are paid for by the United Nations. Mr. President, you are well aware that Turkey has made intense efforts to end the Israeli-Lubnan war, which in 2006 sought to spread across a large region and gain serious dimensions, and to ensure a ceasefire. Our contribution to the force of UNIFIL is a sign of these efforts. The UNIFIL Council resolution 1701 has temporarily set the mandate of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) as a year, and is envisioned to extend it every year if necessary. UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate has been extended six times so far, making significant contributions to maintaining stability and security on the Lebanese-Israel border. The UN Security Council is expected to extend UNIFIL's mandate for another year as of August 2013. On 5 September 2013, UNIFIL will complete the mandate of the Supreme Assembly to ensure the participation of our military elements. This authorization must be extended in parallel with the mandate of UNIFIL. In this framework, our government has asked for the permission of the High Assembly in accordance with Article 92 of our Constitution, which ensures that our country's contribution could be extended in accordance with the mandate of UNIFIL. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our country has a history of centuries in the vast Mediterranean basin, dating from the Moorish Crescent to the political, economic and human plan. In accordance with the natural flow of history, our future should not be considered separate from the fate of this region. There is no doubt that any development associated with regional stability, security and peace will have significant repercussions on our domestic and foreign policy. Hence, it is not possible for us to be indifferent to what is happening in our nearby environment. Recent developments in our region have once again shown that Turkey and the peace and resurrection of countries in the region cannot be thought apart. With this understanding, our government's foreign policy aims to create a generation of peace, security, stability and prosperity around our country. Our country has expressed that sustainable stability can be established at every opportunity by the completion of peaceful and regular democratic transformation processes in accordance with the legitimate demands of the people of the region. It is also clear that defending and improving our national security and national interests can only be carried out by actively contributing to the facility of peace, stability and security in our region. Our government, acting with this understanding, has the will to continue to contribute power to the UN Interim Task Force UNIFIL in Lebanon, in accordance with the objectives envisioned in the UN Security Council's Decision 1701, which represents international legitimacy and the common will of the international community. Mr. President, we have special relations with Lebanon in the context of our foreign policy towards the Middle East and the Mediterranean basin, as well as the course of developments in Syria. Basically, Lebanon is an important country that is key to the stability of the entire region and is closely monitored by the international community. Maintaining peace and stability in Lebanon is critical in the changing process of our region. There have been significant developments in Lebanon since the last decision by our Grand Assembly in June 2012 on the extension of the mandate of our troops serving at UNIFIL. Foreign factors, which depend on developments in Syria, also affect the internal stability of Lebanon. Recently, Hezbollah's negative reflections on Lebanon, particularly the refugee flood of internal turmoil in Syria, have been the main focus of political debates in the country. In this regard, there is a period of tension between ethnic and religious groups in Lebanon. The Syrian regime has adopted an aggressive attitude towards neighbouring countries in recent months, as well as its anti-Syrianism to the Syrian people. Lebanon is at the top of the countries that feel it the most. The Syrian regime does not hesitate to carry out military operations to violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Lebanon at all times. On the other hand, two of our citizens who were kidnapped in Lebanon for ransom in August 2012 were released in September, as a result of intense attempts by us and efforts by the Lebanese authorities. At the same time, 11 Lebanese citizens who had taken the bus from Syria were abducted by Syrian opposition elements, and two of them were released on the basis of our country's initiatives. In the process of the release of nine Lebanese citizens still being held hostage in Syria, Lebanese authorities have been informed of all kinds of contributions. In this context, the families of those held hostage at the forefront of the Lebanese agenda staged an isolated demonstration to create public opinion. Lebanese authorities have acted in full cooperation with our country during this process, and unwanted incidents have not been allowed to take place. On October 19, 2012, Prime Minister Mikati offered his resignation to President Sulejman following the death of eight people including Brigadier General Visam Hassan, head of Internal Security Forces Intelligence Agency in Beirut, but President Süleyman refused to accept this resignation, considering the delicate situation within the country. The process of the National Dialogue Meetings, led by the President, is under way to maintain stability in the country. In the latest case, President Süleyman has appointed Tammam Salam....to establish the new government. Following long debates over changes in the election system in Lebanon, the Assembly's mandate was extended to 17 months, 20 November 2014, at the Lebanese Assembly's General Assembly's General Assembly on 31 May 2013. In Lebanon, on the other hand, there have been occasional armed conflicts between different sects, including the last one on June 23rd, in Sayda, but conflict has been avoided as a result of the common sense of government, the people of Lebanon and the Lebanon army. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've been monitoring developments in Lebanon. At every opportunity, we say that internal political debates are of great importance to the Lebanese people to be conducted in a common denominator and in silence. Again, I want to emphasize that the developments in Lebanon are directly related to the threat of the Syrian issue to regional peace and security. In Syria, with the help of certain political and military elements within Lebanon, the regime has initially moved to take dangerous steps that would harm Lebanon. The fact that Hezbollah was involved in the conflict in Syria poses a serious threat to the security and stability of both Lebanon and our region. At such a time, the protection of social harmony in Lebanon has become more important than ever. In this regard, we support Lebanon's policy to keep itself away from the Syrian crisis. We are closely monitoring developments in Lebanon, considering the sectarianism that reached dangerous levels in our region, which was first fueled by the regime in Syria. We believe that the search for national dialogue will contribute to the overcome of existing problems and to the culture of peaceful living together in Lebanon. In all our Lebanese dealings, in unity and unity, we strongly emphasize the message of acting with the knowledge of the Lebanese. Lebanon's sociopolitic tissue is a case of delicate balances. Especially in Syria, it should be remembered that regional reflections of the regime's threats and terrorist politics can deeply affect Lebanon. In such a national and regional conjunctive, the protection of peace and quiet in Lebanon has become more important than ever. Therefore, UNIFIL is also needed to continue its mission, which UNIFIL has successfully carried out so far. Because the security and stability of the Lebanon-Israel border and the region is under way after UNIFIL took office. The parties have followed the ceasefire established under Resolution 1701. The Lebanon army was stationed in southern Lebanon and continued to contribute to the maintenance of peace, security and stability under UNIFIL's concept of action and the functions defined by the rules of engagement. Turkey's concrete contribution to peace and stability in Lebanon has a positive effect on every aspect of our bilateral relations with Lebanon. Our contribution to UNIFIL is also supported by the people of Lebanon. Turkey has been instrumental in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. So it increased its appearance within both the United Nations system and on a regional and global scale. The superior performance of our troops in UNIFIL is also appreciated by other participating countries. In the current situation, it is vital that the international community does not abandon Lebanon, which is part of the rare countries in which multiculturalism, mutual respect and tolerance are operated by democratic mechanisms. To this end, the stabilisation of UNIFIL is necessary. Mr. President, in light of what I have stated above, it is also possible that Turkey, which has ensured that the peace and stability of Lebanon will continue to contribute to international legal efforts. On the occasion of a year's extension of our contribution to UNIFIL, our country will also confirm that the reflections of the conflict in Syria are in solidarity with the Lebanese state and its people in an environment that is more felt on the regional scale. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I end my remarks, I'd like to mention Egypt, where some very important developments are taking place. Turkey supported the democratic transformation that began with the January 25th revolution in Egypt and took part in the march of democracy along with the fellow and brother Egyptian people. In this context, we are concerned about the developments in Egypt. The situation in Egypt has reached a very delicate and alarming stage, with the Egyptian Armed Forces in a military coup to suspend President Mohammed Mursi (President Muhammad Mursi) and suspend the constitution. It is not possible for any democratic country to understand and accept the removal of a president from his post by means of a free and international oversight for the first time in the history of Egypt. The Ark is the virtue of democracy; it is necessary for all countries of the European Union to know and absorb it, especially those who avoid describing the developments in Egypt as a coup. He's suffered a lot from intervening in democracy for 50 years, and we condemn the military coup in Egypt as a country that has experienced its suffering for a long time, and we expect the respect needed in this new era for the elected President Mursi (President Mursi) and the democratic preferences of the Egyptian people. In this metaphor, we invite the military council and all parties in Egypt to act with common sense, respect the principle of rule of law and democracy, and to re-establish democratic order as soon as possible, in order to succeed the democratic process of democratisation initiated by the friendly and brother Egyptian people in the 25 January 2011 revolution. As a result, we hope that Egypt will have a civil government that will soon take its power from constitutional legitimacy and respect for human rights and basic freedoms. As always, Turkey will continue to stand by the people of Egypt and use all its power to restore democracy in Egypt, support the political stability, unity, and economic development of Egypt. Mr. President, in light of this painting that I'm trying to draw on our region, and under the principles determined by our bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions in the region, the United Nations Security Council shall take part in UNIFIL's decision to extend its mandate for another year from September 5th 2013, as part of the Turkish Armed Forces' decision of 1701/2006, and under the principles determined by the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Assembly of the Great Assembly of Turkey, which shall be appointed by UNIFIL as part of UNIFIL as part of the naval task force and under the provision of the Constitution for its necessary arrangements. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0018par0366	Thank you. Now, it's Aykan Erdemir who wants to speak on behalf of himself, Mr. Bursa MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0019par0369	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge to the United Nations Peacekeepers in Lebanon to extend the mandate of the Turkish Armed Forces, which will expire in UNIFIL. I salute the High Council and our citizens. We can almost all agree that the Turkish Armed Forces have contributed to the peace of the region and the world, as they served within UNIFIL in Lebanon, under the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on September 5, 2006. Given the loss of close to 250 ▪ of UNIFIL's troops, who have been in office from 1978 to now, we can understand how the Turkish Armed Forces have served in a difficult environment. We thank our soldiers, who sweat for peace at the expense of their own life, at the cost of their own blood, and thank them for that. As Turkey, Lebanon and the Middle East are our greatest desire for permanent and sustainable peace and liberal democracy. It is our greatest wish that the mosaic in Lebanon, the Sunnis, the Shiites, the Alevis, the Marunis, the Greek Orthodoxes, the Greek Catholics, the Gregoryians, the Dürzis, the Bahai and the Jews; Arabic, Syriac, Greek, Syriac, Armenian, and Kurdish speakers live in peace and quiet. Sadly, when we look at Lebanon today, it is not possible to speak of peace and peace. Lebanese geography has been the address of war, blood, hatred, and tears for decades. Therefore, Turkey must learn from its experience in Lebanon and not make similar mistakes as it tries to bring peace to Lebanon within UNIFIL. Lebanon is a country in the world today called sectarian conflicts. The idea of sectarianism, called proper, seems to have triumphed over the idea of patriotism, which is called the "statement." So, is sectarianism, called "approved" an ancient reality in Lebanon, an ancient heritage, an unchanging destiny, or a modern tradition called sectarianism, a modern building, invented? Lebanese history gives us important clues. When we look at the history of Lebanon, we need to take a look at the class struggle of the large populations, called the political elites, called the 'Ayakyan'. Because, in this struggle, the question of whether the differences within the belief community are stronger or weaker than the differences between the belief communities, and the answer to this question has been a key role for the elites of different faiths. Because, in Lebanon, with modernisation, the opportunity of the community to join politics and the rise of the public's opportunities to participate in economic life has been a threat to the elite, and the threatened elites, the sobers, slowly building sectarianism, drawing borders, sharpening differences, polarizing society, and the sectarianism for Lebanon has come before us as a modern invention. He called protecting the existing hierarchys of the elite, his efforts led his sectarians to provoke against other communities, and therefore, a landless Muslim forgot his brotherhood with an earthless Christian ▪ and began to look at the world through religion and religion. In this environment, spite engineers have made it their duty to impose an Orthodox religion, a monotheistic framework, with their monotheistic mentality. They have destroyed the grounds of negotiation, dialogue, reconciliation and co-operation, forgetting that the common problems of man and man need to develop common solutions. How sad it is today that many different religious communities in Lebanon are unable to see their differences, their contradictions, their exploitation, and their contradictions and conflicts with other communities of faith are looking at the world through their glasses. I think it's best to go out with leaders who are willing to win wars, who are willing to win hearts. Look, what does Halil Jibran, the distinguished poet of the Lebanese Mutasarism, say? He is a Maruni Christian, but he himself was also influenced by Islam's Tasavvufu, and he is also influenced by Bahaullah's son, Abdulbaha, and Bahaid, a man of the heart, a man of the Lebanese mosaic. Halil Jibran calls from the depths of history: You are my brother, and I love you. When you prostrate in the mosque, when you kneel in church and pray in the synagogue, you and I are children of the same faith, the same spirit. Spare me the political advances and the struggle for power. The whole world is my country, and all people are my citizens. Halil Jibran may be talking to us from the mountains of Lebanon, but how familiar he really is. If we take a look at Tevfiq Fikret, it is possible to hear, to perceive, to hear, to hear, to hear Halil Jibran, and to hear in Halil Jibran. Tofiq Fikret:, my nation is a human being, and my country is a ruy-i floor. So, as a common soul, as a single family, beyond belief, sects, conflicts of interest, both of them can see humanity as one heart. What we want for Turkey is secular, democratic social law state, freedom and pluralistic democracy, and undoubtedly we want for our brothers in Lebanon, we want for our brothers in Syria, we want for our brothers in Egypt, but as a sign of our sincerity, we want for our brothers beyond the geography of the Middle East, of the Muslim majority. It doesn't matter whether he's a Christian or a Buddhist or a Hindu or a non-believer, we want him because he's human, because he's the most basic human right, and because he's a great poet of this land, as Pir Sultan Abdal has pointed out in his statement in his statement, on my day of trial, my friend, my enemy bell. Today we give thanks and thanks to the members of the Turkish Armed Forces in Lebanon, both at sea and on land. I think our debt to them is to make Turkey one of the most powerful fortresses in the secular, democratic, social law state, free of similar sectarian, vindictive, polarizing conflicts. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0020par0384	Thank you. And now, Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of the National Defence, who has asked for a statement on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0021par0387	Mr. President, the United Nations Interim Task Force of Lebanon UNIFIL is standing before you to announce the grounds of the Prime Minister's thesis on the accession of Turkish Armed Forces to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year starting September 5, 2013, under Article 92 of the Constitution. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, a painful transformation and transformation has been taking place in the Middle East and North Africa region for the past year and a half. Our country considers the establishment of peace and stability in the region important and supports initiatives that serve that purpose. This thesis is one of those initiatives. From the very beginning, we, Turkey, took part in the change in our region, and stressed that people in all countries should have legitimate and democratic rights. In this framework, we supported governments in the region's countries to make democratic reforms in accordance with the legitimate demands of the peoples. Our country is also determined to maintain its policy. One of the major actors in the Middle East region, which has become a priority interest in Turkish foreign policy, is undoubtedly Lebanon. As it is known, Lebanon is a country where its sociopolitic structure is based on delicate balances. In view of developments in the region and the impacts of the country's domestic politics, Lebanon is one of the key countries for the stability of the region. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, recent developments in our region have raised concerns about the preservation of the peace and stability of Lebanon. In this regard, we place great importance on the preservation of peace, stability, and peace in Lebanon, and on the fact that events in Syria have not spread to Lebanon. We expect all countries and interested parties to be sensitive about it and respect Lebanon's independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. In particular, we are concerned about the possibility of problems in Syria spreading to Lebanon and ruining peace and peace in this country. It also raises concerns about the Syrian regime's attitude towards Lebanon's sovereignty and the fact that Hezbollah was directly involved in the conflicts in Syria on the side of the regime. We also find and support the government of Lebanon's policy to exclude Lebanon from the problems in Syria. We think that all actors in the region, including the Syrian government, should respect and act according to this policy by the Lebanese government. Mr. President, in light of all these developments, the role of UNIFIL is even more important in maintaining peace and stability in Lebanon. Turkey also worked hard to end the Lebanese-Israeli war in 2006, showing signs of spreading across a large region and gaining serious dimensions, as it refers to the unity and unity of the Lebanese people and the peacekeeping of internal peace, and under international steps regarding this issue, the United Nations Interim Task Force UNIFIL was established by expanding resolution 1701, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 11 August 2006. Given the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region, Turkish Armed Forces elements of Turkey, which will be determined by the government, were allowed to participate in UNIFIL, with decision 880 taken by the Grand National Assembly on 5 September 2006. The permit period has been extended one year since September 5, 2012, with the Turkish Grand National Assembly's decision 29/6/2012 and 1023. Mr. President, the valued MPs serve around 11,000 personnel in UNIFIL, from 37 countries, including Turkey. What countries are in UNIFIL? Greece is there, Italy is there, Spain is there, Belgium is there, Germany is there, Brazil is there, China is there, India is there, and there are about 11,000 staff in total. The mission of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) was generally determined to help monitor the conflict and monitor the ceasefire, transport humanitarian aid to civilians, security of the borders at the request of Lebanon, and prevent entry of weapons into Lebanon without the government's consent. United Nations member states have been asked to allocate unity to support UNIFIL elements in order to meet the tasks set out in the decision. I would also like to stress that the United Nations has also been determined that the elements in the region cannot be used in any other activity, including the de-arming of weapons, except for the tasks I have expressed above. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are being contributed by our country to the UNIFIL force starting in October 2006, and Turkish Armed Forces are continuing their duties in the region. The Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Armed Forces will continue to participate in its stability and peace facility in its region and in the world, as well as in the past, contributing to its efforts to promote peace. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are part of the most difficult part of the Middle East geography in Lebanon. The developments in Syria and recent events in Egypt have the potential to affect Lebanon's current situation. Therefore, the stability of peace, peace, and peace in the country, the lack of a new problem in the region, is important for regional peace. It is also evident that a stable Lebanon will contribute to the establishment of peace in the region. The security and stability of the Lebanese-Israeli border is currently under way after UNIFIL (UNIFIL), which has been expanded to implement Decision 1071 of the United Nations Security Council. In this framework, UNIFIL is needed to continue its mission, which UNIFIL has successfully carried out so far. Because of its contribution to peace and stability in Lebanon, the government of Lebanon and all its parties in Lebanon are also very important to the activities of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) and the extension of UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, UNIFIL has been appointed as a year by UN Security Council decision 1701, and the mandate of UNIFIL is scheduled to be extended every year if necessary. The UN mandate of UNIFIL is renewed by the United Nations for the period after August 31st. Due to the UN's decision on this issue in August, it has also been brought to you by consideration of the working calendar of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Since 2007, the United Nations has always extended UNIFIL's decision in August, but our Parliament is also taking a vacation, so we've already extended the mandate in 2012, and we've made it clear that if the United Nations Security Council extends its decision, it will be valid. In the 2012 Prime Ministerial Office, the term of the mandate of (UNIFIL) will expire on 31 August 2012 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council for the period after 31 August 2012. Thus, there is no difference between other times and the period. This year, the mandate is expected to be extended by the United Nations Security Council for a year starting on 31 August. In the coming period, our elements in the naval task force of Operation UNIFIL are considered to be appropriate for our country's appearance to continue to contribute with our officers serving at UNIFIL headquarters. I would like to stress that our contribution to UNIFIL is the only United Nations Peacekeeping Force that our country contributes to the military force, and our candidacy for Turkey's interim membership in the United Nations Security Council in 2015-2016 is important. I would also like to point out that our contribution to Operation UNIFIL has also contributed to Turkey's appearance and efficiency. Mr. President, our foreign policy is based on the authority of Ataturk. And since the founding of the Republic, we've been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on The Syrian people and our people are brothers. Does anyone say otherwise? He's a relative. Does anyone say otherwise? To see the two people become brothers and relatives, you need to see the festivals feasting on the borders. Therefore, it is our government who has made the Joint Council of Ministers with Syria, and our government who has made the strategic agreement with Syria, and our government who supports Syria at international meetings. While we were doing so, did we not know the faith, religion, thought, party of the regime in Syria? So, we knew then. Neither Bezar Assad has changed nor we have. Thus, our policy is that Turkey is on the side of a government that is on the side of its people while supporting Syria. We have drawn our support for the government when the Syrian government responds strongly to its people's demands, and we have made it clear that we are with the Syrian people, and that we will support the Syrian people from now on. As individuals of a nation in love with democracy, it's natural, and we can't be expected of anyone else. We want democratic conditions to be valid all the time and everywhere. This request applies to Tunisia, Libya, Yemen, Syria, Egypt. In a framework based on democratic governance and the rule of law, it is our common demand to govern these countries in accordance with the demands of the people. No country should remain indifferent to the demands of its people. The removal of his country's legitimate president, who received the support of 52 per cent of his people a year ago, can never be seen legitimately. In democratic countries, the way governments change is clear, which, as you all know, is the ark of the will of the people. In all democracies, it is a universal fact that executives who have been elected by elections have left their post again: Egypt's people and its administration have the power to establish a road map within the framework of democratic rules to overcome the current crisis. Respecting the will of the Egyptian people by remaining in constitutional legitimacy will also strengthen the democratic system in Egypt. It is also impossible for those who are not involved in any democratic struggle in their past to understand the democratic demands of the people. A sustainable stability in North Africa and the Middle East, where change and transformation have become inevitable, can only be achieved by securing the people's peace, security and well-being. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in this framework, in case the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL's mandate by taking into account the direct demands of Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region, as of September 5, 2006, as of September 5, 2013, the United Nations Security Council will extend its mandate; the Turkish Armed Forces, which will be decided by the government, will be part of the UNIFIL, and shall be given permission by the Supreme Assembly of the United Nations Security Council to take part of the Union's Security Council on its mandate for another year, and by which the UNIFIL. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0022par0411	Thank you. Now, it's Emrullah Business, Ankara MP who wants to speak for himself.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0023par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office to allow the United Nations's Armed Forces to participate in the UNIFIL operation for another year from September 5, 2013, according to Article 92 of the Constitution. The United Nations Security Council adopted Decision 1701 on 11/8/2006 and has contributed to the UN Interim Task Force UNIFIL in Lebanon under the permission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with its 5/9/2006 decision for a year. Lastly, a year has been extended since 5/9/2012 with the Turkish Grand National Assembly's 29/6/2012 resolution No. 1023. With its contributions to UNIFIL, Turkey has been instrumental in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation. In this framework, both Turkey and the United Nations have contributed substantially to increased visibility in all parts of the Lebanese community, through regional and global civil-military cooperation activities, as well as to the continuation of its policy for maintaining peace and stability. Dear MPs, the political structure in Lebanon was established on the basis of the proportional division of political tasks among the sects within the framework of the national pact, which was agreed on in 1943. Under the agreement, the President was agreed to be the president of parliament, Shii, Prime Minister Sunni, and that power be shared on the basis of 6/5 between Christians and Muslims. Between 1975 and 1989, the civil war in Lebanon ended with the Taif Agreement, signed under Arab League protection in 1989. With this agreement, the President of the Christian community's powers are restricted, the number of Christian and Muslim lawmakers in parliament has been evenly divided into sects. The agreement created a balance between the three main religious groups in Lebanon. In 2011, security conditions in the country became sensitive to the effects of Syrian events. The attacks against French and Italian soldiers serving UNIFIL, the abduction of 11 Lebanese in Syria, tensions in Palestinian camps, and increasing number of Syrian dissidents have made it a priority for the government to seek asylum in Lebanon, to protect internal security and stability. As part of Turkey's U.N.I.F.L. ground troops, a construction company is still serving as a frigate or corvette or offensive boat in the Naval Task Force, which changes according to seasonal conditions. At UNIFIL Command, we have a staff of 237 people, 24 of them civilians, 261 people assigned to our division, which is considered the most regular base area of the base, and we already have 240 personnel. In addition, we have three personnel at UNIFIL headquarters in the Nakura region. The terrorist attack, which resulted in the deaths and injuries of several people, including Brigadier General Visam Hassan, has been strongly condemned by our country, which took place in Beirut's Dösrefiye neighbourhood on October 19, 2012. As always, Turkey continues to stand in the face of any attempt that targets the stability of Lebanon. Turkey will continue to stand in the face of any attempt aimed at the stability of Lebanon. In this context, Turkey will continue its contributions to the unity and unity of the fellow and brother Lebanese people and to the preservation of domestic peace. Given our bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions in the region, I am under the opinion that if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, the Turkish Armed Forces will be allowed to participate in the UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year, and that the necessary arrangements for this will be carried out by the Government under Article 921 of the United Nations Security Council and Article 880 under the principles determined by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, in the speech here before me, as much as we're discussing the issue of sending troops to Lebanon, of course the issue of Egypt has come up, and our foreign policy has also been brought up. There's one thing that's been repeated over and over again. As an Arab speaker, I had to explain it from here. Friends, if you act in English, you will read Esad (Esad) and you will read King Fehd (Fahd) and you will read Nebih Berri (Nabih Berri) and you will read Necip Mikati (Nacip Mikati) in English as well. So their Arabic pronunciation is more likely to be in our Turkish language, and that's the truth. In the Arabic language, reading it as "Esad" is a result of the reading of "Asad" in English. At this time, there have been misnominations as a result of being expressed here and our media acting in English.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0024par0430	Master, have you noticed in the last two years?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0023par0431	So the last two years, six months, it doesn't matter, it's important to find the truth. If it's true, I, for one, congratulate those who find the truth. Another thing: On January 25, there was a revolution in Egypt. This revolution has never really been a revolution. There, a gentle driving - if necessary - was made, and the army, in a way, removed Mubarak and his assistant, Omar Sulejman, who became the target of the people. And since then, over a year after the presidential election, all services, all sorts of things were neglected, and the public was made to believe that when we went with Mr. Koruturk, then, as the Foreign Affairs Commission, we saw together what Egypt was like a month before the elections, Mr. Korturk, and Mr. Korturk. In fact, the conclusion was that things got worse after the revolution. So, at least during the revolution, there was service, there was cleaning, there was security, now there's none of it. He was brought to the point and, as a result, he received 48.27 per cent of the vote. If the elections were in August, Ahmet Sefik would have won that election. So here, again, there was a comparison of Mubarak and Mursi. Mubarak was a thirty-year-old dictator, and that's how the whole world accepted it. Everyone applauded that operation on January 25th, no one here has a conflict, but we have to call Mursi a dictator a mercy. What kind of dictator is that in the end message he left -- if you've seen it -- he calls on his people to fight peaceful, nonviolent, nonterrorism, to resist a military coup? Where in the world is such a dictator? So we have to name everything properly. The Tantavi-Sisi comparison was done. Tantavi, as I said, took the dictator Mubarak and his deputy, Omar Sulejman, but Sisi, for the first time in the history of Egypt, struck down a president who had been elected for the first time. One was a dictator, one who didn't come through elections and democratic ways, and the other was a leader who came through the election. Dear friends, the subject of Tahrir has been brought up, and greetings have been sent from here to Tahrir. Unfortunately, that beautiful image of Tahrir, on January 25th, has been erased by June 30th, and has been corrupted. Here, you see, the Temerrüt Movement -- the term "responsive" means "insistence" -- a former lawyer named Mahmoud Bedr, who was the chairman of this, founded this Temptation Movement after January 25th, and this man is a man who is famous for handling illegal cases, the cases of smugglers, sir, the cases of drug lords. This guy set it up and started these Tahrir movements. Here, Muhammad Baradey, as we all know, was President of the Atomic Energy Foundation, received the Nobel Peace Prize, and then he took political action in Egypt, and he saw that he withdrew from the presidential nomination because he couldn't find a response. But in an interview with the New York Times the day after the coup, he spoke to the press about convincing the West to take the coup, about his efforts to remove Mursi (Mursi) from his post by military means. So I'd like to bring all this to your attention. Tahrir, unfortunately, has called the army to duty, and these recent events have reminded us of the republical rallies that have called on our army to take office. Thus, the virtue of Tahrir (Abraham), unfortunately, was defiled by these recent events, and his clean image was degraded. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0025par0442	Mr. President, the speaker has tried to explain the distinction of the language by basing it on Arabic language science. As a person with a native language in Arabic, I would like to say that the difference between the language of Esad (Esed) and the difference between the language of the language of the language of the language of the Arabic language is that it is neither............ or.....................
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0026par0444	I know him very well. I know him very well.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0027par0445	Please, Congressman, don't do this.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0025par0446	It is said more closely between the two. That's what the whole Arab world says.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0027par0447	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0025par0448	For some reason, for many years, people called me Esad.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0027par0449	We don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0025par0450	...after the Prime Minister and Assad fell apart.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0027par0451	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0025par0452	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0027par0454	Yes, members of the law...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0028par0455	Mr. President, the speaker spoke of a person who signed 22 million signatures for the Temerrüt Movement in Egypt, referring to a lawyer who said that he was involved in various matters and that all of this would be nullified. This is unacceptable. 22 million people can't be reduced to one person, but it's not always possible to find 22 million decent people side by side. What matters is political power. So finding moral responses to political powers, trying to find them is an expression of desperation. I want it on the record.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit01spe0027par0456	Thank you. Yes, lawmakers, negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the permission of the United Nations Security Council on 11/8/2006 adopted Decision 1701 (2006) and of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 5/9/2006 decree for a year, Turkey contributed to the United Nations Temporary Task Force (UNIFIL) in Lebanon with the elements of the Armed Forces (UNIFIL). The length of the permit is finally extended by a year from 5/9/2012, dated 29/6/2012 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey has been instrumental in carrying out an effective implementation of the peacekeeping operation with its contributions to UNIFIL. In this framework, Turkey's contribution has made a significant contribution in the United Nations system, both on a regional and global scale, and through comprehensive civil-military co-operation activities, to boost its visibility in all parts of the Lebanese community, and to maintain its policy for maintaining peace and stability. UNIFIL is the only United Nations Peace Force operation our country has contributed to, and it is considered important that we continue to contribute to UNIFIL Naval Task Force, considering the fact that we are already running for the United Nations Security Council. UNIFIL is due to expire on 31/8/2013 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after that. In light of these issues and in view of our bilateral relations with Lebanon and security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, I shall allow the Turkish Armed Forces elements, number 1701 (2006) to participate in the UNIFIL Naval Task Force for another year from now, and I shall authorise Article 92 of the Constitution under the United Nations Security Council Resolution No.880 under the Supreme Assembly's Decision. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Appointment accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0027par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 132nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 47 of Law Proposal 478, there was no sufficient number of decisions in the decision made by Kütahya MP Alim Iz and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly They can be taken in the second paragraph of Article 47 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal. The decision to block access is sent to the Telecommunications Communication Presidency to be implemented. They apply for the adoption of the declaration. Regarding the decision to block access, the procedure is applied in the second joke of this clause. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form of the article. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0029par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0027par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0030par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0027par0015	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0031par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute you all. Although, the motions we've made are unfortunately not taken very seriously here because of the majority of power, but we still have a duty to write down a note here, to express our point of view, our point of view. Dear lawmakers, before we discuss the matter -- Mr. Interior Minister is also sitting here -- I would like to express my opinion on a matter that concerns Istanbul in particular. You know, for a very long time, there have been serious problems in Turkey because of the Resistance to Travel Park in Istanbul. On the one hand, especially the banning of the İstanbul Governorate is a source of serious problems. Its main source is the opposite, not those who want equality, freedom, who want ecological life, but those who want the destruction of the Travel Park there. Today evening, the Association of Taxis called for an action on opening the Travel Park (Turkish Park) due to the conclusion of this judicial decision in favour of the public. As of today, the governor's office has announced that the park will be opened tomorrow, but as we read in the press today evening, it has shut down and banned the taxim. This will cause another trouble. We, here -- while Mr. Secretary is here -- we think it should be made clear to the public that the Salad Park insurgents should be there today, without any problems. Otherwise, with this stubbornness, you won't get anywhere else. As a result, those who will follow this call will be in the Zombie Square. Because of its political identity, the government has been trying to shut down the Zombie Square for a long time; this is one of the approaches. I'd like to express that. Dear lawmakers, we actually want to highlight something with this amendment proposal: freedom of thought, expression and organisation is constitutionally guaranteed and should not be eliminated by bans, and the arrangements must be made through more freedoms. This is one of the main points of democracy and freedom. That's what we just said about the trip. In fact, patience with democracy, patience with different opinions and suggestions, it is necessary to accept that others may think otherwise, and that action can, in this regard, organize, do so through the press, as well. Otherwise, the fact that democracy has really narrowed down its territory offers violence, and we have to face these landscapes. In this regard, unfortunately, Turkey's report card is not very good, especially in the issue of freedom of the press. In fact, every day, every passing year, it goes back a little bit. In the Press Freedom Report 2002, Turkey was ranked 117/th with 55 points, this year with 56 points, it was a very serious problem, and in Turkey it was still a problem in the press workers' prison, especially in the political genocide operations under the name of Turkey, the Kurdish journalists -- not today's view -- but in fact, there is a situation of pressure from the republic's organization to the opposition press, to the Kurdish press in some way today; in this case, detention, harassment, and even many of them have cost their lives. Many Kurdish journalists have died, newspaper buildings have been bombed, and there have been times. According to the information provided by the arrested Journalists Solidarity Platform, 67 journalists are still in prison, so this is a serious problem for freedom of the press in Turkey, and it needs to be resolved as soon as possible. It's impossible for a society whose press is not free to be free, and if your press isn't free, you lack the right to be informed, and if you don't have the right to be informed, you have to interpret society as someone has expressed to you. This is not acceptable. Of course, there is no pressure on this Kurdish press, just for Turkey. This is the context of the closure of Turkey, especially in Denmark, with the pressure of the AKP's power, of Roj TV, Nuce TV, and MMS, in this context, not only within Turkey's borders, but also the voice of the Kurdish people at the international level, the right of Kurdish people to receive information -- this is the issue of shutting down the world, the first televisions that have been broadcast to the people of Turkey. We want to stress once again that this should not be accepted and that democracy, human rights, freedoms are a serious problem, and freedoms should be expanded, not banned. Again, these bans made via the Internet must be expanded on the basis of freedoms, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0032par0025	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 478 rows is 47. They report immediately and in writing to the President to take the necessary measures under this law. We propose and propose that the declaration be added. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0033par0032	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0032par0033	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0034par0034	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0032par0035	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0035par0036	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to talk to you about the amendment motion that we submitted in Article 47 of the Law Bill 478. This motion and change in effect include: There is a change in Law 5651 concerning crimes committed on the Internet. It is said that in this law, Mr. Alim has just said that if there are crimes committed in the Internet, there is a possibility that access to the TİB presidency, such as judge, court, prosecution, and child abuse, can be blocked by the President of Telecommunications, but with this change that is intended to be done, there is actually a very disproportionate, a change in the spirit of the law. The National Lottery, such as the Jockey Club, is allowed to make the decision to ban Internet access on its own, and the TİB is asked to be notified to implement it, but if you bring in every institution's decision to access its own fields, to block access to its own areas, then you, for example, are not going to be able to be able to do it. There are experts, one. Telecommunications President has already been authorized to do so on special occasions, other than that, given to courts and prosecutors, then institutions do not have the authority to decide for themselves. I mean, that kind of change is not supposed to happen. The subcommittee text is much more accurate, and when a crime detects an incident related to its field, such as unauthorized gambling, it is said to report to the presidency. With the subcommittee text like this, somehow it's been turned into that on the top commission, the main commission. This stuff is really bad. If this is opened up, then every institution, every private company, will be given the authority to decide that it is an area of its own, in a arbitrary way, to block Internet access, which is not possible. Therefore, I demand that you support our motion and arrange it the way the subcommittee does. In addition, there is a Convention on Crimes in the Internet environment, which is actually on the agenda of our Assembly now, but unfortunately is not downloaded from the General Assembly, in the 380th Row of Virtual Crimes Act. We signed this international contract in 2010, if I'm not mistaken, but it didn't become an internal law rule because we didn't pass it through our House. What's the deal with cybercrimes, cybercrimes? This is trying to ensure that the crimes committed in a universal computer environment or in an Internet environment are organized in a certain way, and it's trying to bring about an international event. What's he suggesting, these things here? In particular, it's illegal to interfere with the computer. It's interfering with computer data. The computer's interfering with linked fraud charges. It regulates the preservation of the stored computer data and the storage, the search for this computer data. There's a serious gap in our law. Where did that gap come from? In cases such as the sledgehammer, Ergenekon and Izmir, Oda TV, he claimed that certain outside information was injected into computers in particular, that some information was later uploaded, and there was not even an expert investigation on this subject, unfortunately, in the Balyoz case, and people were sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment, which reached 20 years. You still know it in the Supreme Court. Now, in this regard, our law, Law 5651, is not enough. CMK 134 isn't enough, and it's not enough that if it's taken from the computer in any way, it's not enough that it's given a copy of it because there's a technology that's so advanced that with that technology, you can do whatever game you want on the computer, and in the Balyoz case, the tech guys proved it. So, please, let's pass this international agreement on computer crime, Internet crime, which has been held in 380 rows, and please allow our courts to comply with them. Because of the errors, shortcomings, and forgery in this matter, you know, 36 soldiers convicted of the Sledgehammer case, we were convicted with these false data. And right now, our case is in the Supreme Court, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they went on a three-day hunger strike saying, "We can't hear our voices in any way." But some people in Turkey didn't hear their voices. I would like to announce their voice, and since it may happen to you tomorrow, as it may happen to us, please, in our law, that the bill on the organisation of crimes in the 380-lines of universal law should be passed immediately by our Parliament, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0036par0045	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two proposals on the 48th article, which I will study and process together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm offering 48 of my current law proposal, 478 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Ercan Cengiz Kazim Kurt Mahmut Tanal Musa Pine Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan S. Nevzat Korkmaz Alim İkm İlm Mehmet Günal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Shandır Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0037par0063	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0036par0064	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0038par0065	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0036par0066	It is Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP who wants to speak on the motions.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0039par0068	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 48 of Law Proposal 478. I pay my respects. This is a clause that removes the second clause (f) from the 10th article of the Law of Foundations, and when we read this (f) bill, we see that the same law brings an arrangement that is related to the 11th Article of the Law. First of all, I think it's good to know what the 11th article is. The 11th article, my dear friends, is: Despite the notification made by the General Manager's Office, there will be an administrative fine for those who do not give the required declaration, information and documents on time. • So, under the current arrangement, there will be no administrative fine for those who do not give information to the General Manager, and then there will be no administrative fine for those who do not give information at the time. Now, of course, in Turkey, democracy must be run to the end and especially supported to the end of its freedom of organization. At this point, if we're going to carry out a foundation arrangement for this purpose, we're going to do the right thing, and when we do the right thing, we're going to have to get some other truth behind it. Just two days ago, the Constitutional Court called off the fifth joke of the Anti-Terror Law, and said: "No force in Turkey can interpret the period of imprisonment differently." I mean, that is the case in the crimes that are subject to the Anti-Terror Law, in the crimes related to thought, in the special authorities courts. This cancellation was supported by many in Turkey, by the intellectual community. I've read a statement from the Minister, and he says the Constitutional Court is correct. So, when you found a bag that we filled everything with, wasn't the necessity of adding a clause to the length of your sentence here? The President is uncomfortable, the President of Parliament is disturbed, the Prime Minister is disturbed, the ministers are disturbed, and the latest Supreme Court has decided that long imprisonment is not true, but we do not want to add a single sentence to this bag, which we have changed more than 100. We don't want to add a sentence about long imprisonment, and then we're on the side of democracy. It is the first duty of this Parliament to eliminate this contradiction. If there is no regulation in a parliament where eight MPs are under arrest and have been arrested for a long period of time, I find it difficult to understand the reason why there is no amnesty for the foundations in this bag, to eliminate administrative fines related to the foundation managers, and I find it even more difficult to understand his haste. I mean, there's nothing democratically or human rights or the rule of law in trying to make this arrangement on the last day. Indeed, if we want to bring democracy to Turkey, it is our duty to resolve this long-term detention issue quickly, before the Parliament gets on vacation, if necessary, to resolve it with extraordinary assembly, but it is our duty to also ensure the release of our eight arrested MP friends. Otherwise, for 24 hours, 48 hours, maybe even a week, we'll be able to forgive the fines of people who don't follow the rules of the foundation, who don't follow the system, who don't do their job, who don't do their job. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think it's the right approach to force it, to run it. I ask you to support our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0040par0079	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0041par0080	But you're in a hurry, Mr. Special. Because there's another word on the same motions.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0040par0081	I'd like that now.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0041par0082	I remind you, Mr. Special, when you want your time. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0042par0085	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed MPs for the motion on Article 48. I salute your high council. Article 48 of the bill is lifted from effect by Article 10 of the Law on Foundations (2) (f). The sentence was lifted according to Article 11 of the Act of the Foundations, which ordered that the Foundation administrators be subject to administrative fines if they do not give the required declarations, information and documents on time, or the organs are collected in violation of the foundation's trust, or if they make a statement against the truth. With this clause of the bill, aside from the other two issues, it would be possible for the foundation managers to continue their duties, who have made a false statement and who have been identified and sentenced to two administrative fines. In fact, if they're managing more than one foundation, they'll be able to continue their duties at those foundations. Obviously, this sentence was placed here for certain people. It's an AKP classic, again, a special legal arrangement for wife, friend. Honored lawmakers, in a moment, you will either accept the motion we have presented to you, or you will accept the verdict in the bill. If you accept the verdict in the bill, you will allow the foundation managers, who have made false statements, or false statements, to continue their work. Appreciation is yours, your conscience is yours alone. The concept of the state of law during the AKP has been destroyed, even though the Constitution has been ruled by a state of law in Article 2 of our Constitution. The ruling AKP, saying that it has declared war on the law of the superior, does not allow its own law to live on other ideas and ideas. Many of the activities that universal law and our Constitution have considered essential rights have been made unlawful and criminal under AKP administration. I will express my thoughts. When I am asked to use the constitutional right to freedom of thought, you may think what you want, but you can't write it in newspapers, in corners, you can't talk about it in television and radio, you can't publish it in books and magazines. As established in the Constitution, of course you have freedom of communication, but you can't write any e-mails against the government, you can't criticize the government in your phone calls. AKP governments do not deny the freedom of travel, which is guaranteed in the Constitution, but if the government does not allow it, you cannot go out into the street, not on the city bus, not on the subway, not on the ferry. Yeah, you got housing, immunity, but you can get out of bed in the middle of the night with a police raid. You have freedom of religion and conscience, but you could be condemned for your sect at any moment. You have the freedom to work, of course, but if you criticize the government, you could lose your job. If you don't get involved in unions or religious groups close to the government, business as a businessman, as an industrialist, as a public servant, you may get a headache. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, this painting has produced events called "Turkish" events in June 2013, which have caused significant tremors. Both the ruling party and the government members need to read these events and the social response correctly, regardless of any prejudice or non-real excuses. I assure you, the rule of every dictator in the world is in accordance with the law, but not in accordance with the law. True and modern democracy requires legal governance. Those who try to establish despotic governance with the concept of advanced democracy cannot be the founders or rulers of modern and modern states. Those who act like this should not expect to obey the 21st century community without question if they make their own despotic laws instead of universal law. The Turkish nation will object to all false, dissociative and disruptive policies, such as the Great Middle East Project, which is in accordance with the policies of its rulers, global forces, but contrary to the interests of the Turkish nation, such as the opening, such as the peace process. If there are those who would like to discipline those who object, those who do not obey, those who do not swear, by putting them in the Silivri, with pepper spray or batons, they are deeply mistaken. Know that it is for those who know not, and those who do not hear, and those who do not understand. The Turkish nation will never consent to a father-killer and your father being on the sidelines and being left strange in its own home. With these thoughts, I request the acceptance of our motion, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0043par0095	I submit the motions to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0044par0096	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit02spe0043par0097	The decision requires a sufficient number, Mr. Special. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 132nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 50 of Law Proposal 478, the decision of İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi and his friends was not sufficient to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... yes, there is enough to decide, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the "30 per cent" of Article 3 of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Law to be replaced by Article 51 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal, and propose that it be changed into "15 per cent." Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık Nazmi Gür Abdullah Levent Tünzel İbrahimıcı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of Article 51 of the Law and State Officials Act and to the amendment of some Laws and Laws. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Don't Fear Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan The article "ten percent" in Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 5 of Article 51 - 28/12/2010, dated 6093, has been changed to "20 per cent." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0045par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0043par0027	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0046par0028	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0047par0029	Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0043par0030	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0048par0032	Mr. President, there is a change in the administration of an institution of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, with the law that we're talking about, which we're focusing on or we're currently discussing, but there's no one here from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. There aren't any bureaucrat friends here about these Writing artifacts, and we're talking about it. Because you find so many laws in this bag that each of them is a problem. I'm afraid his business isn't here either. Now, in fact, in this 51st article, the presidency can employ local or foreign persons under contract of exception or contract of contract of employment for specific occupational and services, including Turkish crafts. The number of people who would be employed in this way could not exceed 10 per cent of the total number of presidential staffs, in the past period. So the ministry, which would produce 90 per cent of the experts, would have only about 10 per cent of the people who could be employed on the outside. Now, it raises it to 30 per cent, instead of reducing it to 5 per cent, with work and activities, it should make it in a position that does not allow outside employment, but the opposite, from 10 per cent to 30 per cent. Maybe he'll take it up to 50 percent next year, then he'll probably tender the office's presidency outside. Now, writing is a vital subject. We know that all of the writing works of Turkish writing have not arrived until our time, from Ibn Nedim's Kitabul-Fihrist and from the Clerk Chelebi'z-zun. Some of the books mentioned in these two sources are also known to exist in no library in the world today. How did these artifacts disappear? Unfortunately, during the civil war, during the foreign occupations, during the defence wars, our writing works have been destroyed, unfortunately, due to the lack of the necessary care. As a result of physical events, such as the corrosive effect of time, humidity, heat, light, we also have books that are mushroomed and destroyed. It is also known that hundreds of thousands of Islamic writing books were burned by Christians in Eden. The first examples of some of our traditional arts are in our writings. We can track the origins and origins of our art from our writing works. At the same time, they contain the original examples of art, such as lines, epithelials, miniatures, and ebru, the sense of art in their area and the era they were written in. You need to train an expert who understands writing. These guys need to deep-section and describe the works, remove large-scale carototexes, and drop them at the top of the libraries, where they can be easily reached, near the entrance, catalogs prepared, and presented to the services of the world of science. Near all of the library buildings that were built in the Ottoman days, there are substrates and basements. These floors are empty. They're built on top of the basement to keep the books from getting damp. Atef Bey, Ragıp Pasha, Murat Mulla libraries are like this. Books shouldn't be hidden in damp places, no sun, no dusty places. The stores should be filled with books, not compressed on the tracks as much as they can be. As the state began to weaken in the early 1900s, the return process began in the Balkans. We're losing land all the time. Losing land isn't just a waste of land, it's an economic collapse. As a result, the writing library is becoming irreparable. Thus, in 1918, a delegation was appointed called "The Custody of the Quads" and they decided to gather these books, which were miserable in the return process, in the garden of the Sultan Selim Mosque. When it becomes clear that the books will not fit here, he moves to the house of Solomon. Joseph Has Hajip, Kutadgu Bilig, Mahmoud of Kashgar, Dede Korak, they have hundreds of books from them. Today, some of these books have not been publicly published. From here, I can clearly say that the nations with books over a thousand years of writing express themselves as the great nation and the ancient nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As of this aspect of the writing works, it says that there's a very big, sensitive issue that needs to be settled on, that our cultural codes are there, that serious, permanent attitudes and long-term strategies should be put into action, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0041	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0048par0042	I mean, let's talk about writing until we talk about things that don't stick together, and just wait a minute, okay?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0043	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the "30 per cent" of Article 3 of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Law to be replaced by Article 51 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal, and propose that it be changed into "15 per cent." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0050par0049	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0050	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0051par0051	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0052	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Under the amendment, the number of contract staff members has been reduced to less and has been provided with sufficient contract personnel to meet the need, and has been asked to avoid possible problems in terms of the financial and autonomy rights of the staff taken in this way. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposal for law number 478 is 52. In the final paragraph of the article, we propose that the vote of all the partners be changed to the same thing. With all due respect. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Special Sinan Aydın Aygün Kazım Kurt Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-counter Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; in accordance with the Law and Law Laws Act, we propose the amendment of the 5nd Amendment of the 5th Amendment of Article (2/1613, 1/778) and the Commission of Plans (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Don't Fear Alim Ik Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan The following joke was added at the end of Article 621 of Turkish Trade Law No. 6102, dated 52 - 13/1/2011. "It is possible that the reasons for the removal of a partner from the company could later be put into a company contract, when all representatives of the company's partners unanimously agreed at the meeting of the General Assembly." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0052par0075	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0076	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0053par0077	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0054par0078	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0079	I'm reading the reason: The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who are under Act 4924 and contractors working in local administrations and those who follow the conditions of the imam, deputy immaculate, and paralegal Koran instructors. However, there are no contracted personnel and MPs assigned to the officers, and there are no contracted staff under the special laws of the law. There are no 4/Cs who live most deeply in the victimology. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. The citizen's right to block the freedom of right to search for rights and to intervene in the judiciary has the right to information on questions and answers related to the PSYM exams. The public interest in its capital is directly or indirectly excluded from the Court's control of companies, which are less than 50%. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The proposal for law number 478 is 52. In the final paragraph of the article, we propose that the vote of all the partners be changed to the same thing. With all due respect. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0055par0096	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0097	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0056par0098	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0049par0099	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0057par0101	Mr. President, when this proposal came to the subcommittee, there were deputy imams, proxy muezzins and trustees and teacher of the Koran courses. That's how it went down on the subcommittee, all the parties agreed, no one objected, that's how it went. However, you have received the Koran instructors who have only worked for three months on a motion that you have given for wisdom. My dear friends, there is a principle of equality in this country. There are ten years, fifteen years of imams, muezzins. Is that right? You're going to make the three-month Koran instructor a civil servant, but you're not bringing in ten years, fifteen years of imams and muezinis and skateboards. Dear friends, we have no right to repeat the monopoly, the right of opposition parties to submit the monopoly to the government and the principal commission. I invite you, the government and its principal commission; let us renegotiate this practice against the principle of equality and give it to our deputy imams and our proteges. We're doing an injustice, it's against the principle of right. All right, let's have the Imam orator school graduates, and they'll always work for the Head of Religious Affairs. Let's bring in a substance like that, but let's get rid of this injustice. There's an injustice here, I'm inviting the government again, Mr. Secretary, and I'm inviting you, a injustice has been done; you have the right to submit the monopoly, and the main commission of the Plan Budget Commission is the President's. I'm Mr. Lütfi. I'm the Commissioner. And I'm the Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0058par0106	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0059par0108	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0058par0109	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... members of lawmakers, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section three. The third part includes the 53rd article (a), (b), (c), (c), (d) and (d) the 72nd article (a), (b), (c) and (c). Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who has asked for the National Movement Party Group's name on the third chapter.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0060par0117	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. It's been four days at the General Assembly, but considering his work on the commission, we've been working on it for days, and I don't know that we're talking about an offer that's going to be a freak in the history of the world's law that neither you nor the lawyers nor the public can get out of. Whatever you want to call it, it's not basically living. Can we move the government and the AKP's efforts to avoid national will in the General Assembly to an acceptable point of view of persecution, torture, other aspects of the General Assembly's time, the inefficient use of the General Assembly's time, the inefficiency of the barren political understanding, which does not foresee any other way but coercion, which is stubborn to the cause. Everything the AKP has dealt with with with is more unfair because I don't need anyone under all this effort. It's hard to be blind to not see him brag. Let the AKP speakers see that we're talking. It's tragic that they should take the book of the Civil Charter into their hands and take it out to the main opposition and accuse them of saying, "It's tragic." All legal texts have a saying and a soul. The Civil Law must be judged with its word and spirit. The rights of power, the majority, the rights of the opposition, the minority, were also included in this text. As legitimate as your rights are, my rights are just as legitimate. Why are you using those rights? Or why are they being used like this? It is neither democratic nor anyone's place to judge. I suppose you'll do whatever the heart wants, even though you have the majority in the Civil Code. When it came to the benefit of the mindset that could not comprehend the spirit of the Civil Code, the Civil Charter, when he didn't come, I did it, and it was. Dear lawmakers, a law is set on how to do it, it's clear how to negotiate. The main idea of this process in the Charter is reconciliation. Of course, the majority will give the law its final form, no one will object. But in doing so, you will not ignore the opposition, you will not deny everything you say, because a number of people's demands are coming to opposition parties. Wise powers are the authorities who know how to exploit these prepared information that they can use. Honourable lawmakers say the opposition sometimes speaks of irrelevant things, ruling speakers say. It's as if the 71 laws in the bag had a lot to do with each other, but the opposition was obsessed with irrelevant things. You put different laws in a bag and turned them into soup. Well, don't see too much, and this soup will have the salt of the opposition. Are you criticizing the different opposition you're making? A bald comb! The amendments to such an offer are too much. What are you able to talk about, dear friends, with a mindset of inferiority? What's this bag of laws that makes a difference to 71 laws? The problems of the cop you patted on the back with his people? The problems of the sergeants, privates and privates, who you send their young lives to fight terrorism and then leave all alone in the middle of hell when you sit down to negotiate terrorism? The volunteer village rangers whose martyrdom you opened up after taking the PKK? Civilian officers who consider themselves stepchildren with almost chronicized problems in the Turkish Armed Forces? Firemen? The private security agency? The farmer's, the peasant's, the officer's, the pensioner's problems? Our Roman brothers? The brothers of the Alemi Bektashi, whom you have torn apart the brotherhood of this nation? Whose problems does he solve? Is it unemployment? The misery? The manufacturer's problems? Solves what? When are you going to consider these segments, and when are you going to accept them? Is it the sensitivity of millions that I consider more important for the PKK to be dealt with? In the General Assembly, unfortunately, this is the landscape. It's just me on the General Assembly, the commissions, just me on the streets, just me on the TV! Dear friends, such self-centered approaches are neither human nor Islamic, nor democratic. How much further will this country travel with a mindset that sees itself above law and democracy? How long will a AKP, whose rights, law, occupation, see the inevitable of democracy, continue to harm this democracy? After AKP's election results, Mr. President, democracy is not just a choice. If they say so, AKP's feet have been cut off from the ground. He can't stand the slightest criticism, seeing himself above everyone else. But a few years ago, democracy was a tool for us. Weren't they the ones who said it themselves? Isn't the idea of creating a prosperous, fair and democratic society? So, is there any other way to build this structure, except by the same will as all of us? In his last group speech, Mr. Prime Minister said something like "Foots head, heads, feet, feet, feet." He said something like that, a little underestimating the members of the Travel Platform who talked to him. He means, Mr. Erdogan, that these things are beyond you to govern the state, not for you peasants. Please remember, Mr. Prime Minister, who called himself a servant of the people in every environment, who said, "Do you think a model and a professor will have the same vote?" He started the apocalypse because he said, "Is it the same?" Sir, how elitist! How could he not despise him? He was full of things. The public hasn't forgotten about this. Mr. Erdogan, where should we place your statement now? Isn't it right for everyone to ask the following questions: How is that elitist? How is that contempt for creation? Even if you do not agree, what gives you the right to imitate these people who have spoken to you after these words, the lower class of feet, which means ▪ I've come from a bagel shop. Does that sound right to the person who says, "I've come from a bagel shop?" You know, you're saying: "Our price is worth their walk and their slogans." Of course, God's name is above all things, and there's no one here who doesn't believe it. However, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm afraid you're not just going to be able to feed the euz, but you're going to have to ask for forgiveness from the High Creator until the morning with your unrestricted confidence. When I say to those who have expressed their reaction to the government, I wonder if 40,000 people are sitting at the negotiating table with a murderous terrorist organization, yesterday's terrorist group leader speaking as the country's co-principal prime minister today, how do I judge the process of solution? Can our national police force, whose martyrs, veterans, continue to exist as an institution representing the rule of sovereignty of Turkey, while their PKK rags and self-security bullshit have become head and foot? Whether you like it or not, why don't you talk to the young people who come to you with more demands for democracy while treating you like a mob. Do we expect much from you if we tell you that we expect you to show a young stance that will comfort the hearts of the fallen and veteran families of this country who have found hundreds of thousands, for the sake of God's sake? For four months, there have been no martyrs from there. Can't you see that the unitary state has been quickly eliminated, that our last homeland has actually been Niyazi? You will not defend the law of the Republic of Turkey, but who will? Listen to these cries of pluralism and justice. If the Prime Minister doesn't understand these words, there are statesmen in you who have ruled for years, you tell him how to govern the state. Not talking saves no one but the plague. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0061par0128	Thank you. Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of the department. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kusoglu, you can give up.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0062par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. We've done a marathon on the Plan and Budget Commission about this bag of laws, we've been up a few times, we've been working late for 15 days, and I think we've been here all over again, and I think we've been going from time to time. I thought there was someone else in between as a speaker, so I hesitated. Thank you. We're discussing a very long, multi-matter, multi-personal bag of law, we're discussing it, but we're not very enthusiastic, we're not very businesslike, we're not very moral, we're not discussing it. Normally, all over the world, parliaments have talks on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays; that's what we've been doing for years. There's wisdom in these three days, there's a reason. The MPs -- on their name -- are the people's deputies, they go and meet the citizens, they learn about the problems of society, they know, they're with them, they're with them, they're in the General Assembly, they're reflecting them in Congress, they're trying to find a solution to those problems, they're dealing with them. We, of course, can't do all of this, especially because we've compressed it into the last few days -- and we've made it a tradition, and it's not the first time we've done it, so we've been stuck with the bag of laws lately, we've been up all night, and this time we've pushed it even harder -- we've been making the wrong laws. We're trying to change the laws of things that haven't been going on for a long time, and we're not doing it out of the goodness of our hearts. So I don't think that's going to be very good either, and we're all pretty much in the same boat. Now, this bag will be passed by the law -- the legal stuff will come, and the new stuff will be included -- over 100 articles. In particular, the 73th article will be divided and longer, so it will be made into a law more than 100 articles; I see it that way. It also concerns a very important part of society, but it's a major task for public enterprises, so, for example, the most important issue here is that 100,000 staffs are given, but even that doesn't reflect the expectations of society. 100,000 staffs are not enough; we only put the 4/B/B/s in the cast, and about 23,4/C/C/C/li waits. On the other hand, there are people waiting as subcontractors. There are people in the government who actually do public service and legally appear in the private sector, and they're waiting. We're doing a study that doesn't satisfy anyone, doesn't make them happy. I've told you in a previous speech, especially since we passed the decree on these 35 laws, and then -- there's 666 among them -- we've created a lot of problems since we changed the wage regime, the staff regime. The regime wasn't enough, the staff regime wasn't so mature anyway, he couldn't understand everyone, but it got worse. Today, with every intervention, we are disrupting the system, creating difficulties, unfortunately, and by this arrangement that we have made, we are rushing it, we are pushing it, and by this arrangement that we have made, we are putting the staff regime and the staff regime into more trouble, and we need to see this. But the state wants seriousness, the state needs maturity, the state needs patience, the state needs time. You don't do hundreds of things in such a hurry to rule the state, you don't just do things that concern the vast majority of society, it's digested like this; there's a way, there's a code, there's a code, it's done according to it. Unfortunately, we're doing this in a way that doesn't satisfy any of us, including the members of the government, including our ministers. And when we wanted to ask questions about the issues in the commission, we didn't get answers from our ministers when we wanted to know how many people they were interested in, how many they were, because the minister was only interested in himself, let's just say, if there were five clauses, he couldn't answer about them, but he couldn't answer about the other 50 or 60, he wasn't his subject, he couldn't answer rightly, he didn't answer. The bidders didn't come in and present once, not on the Commission or the subcommittee. It's the same here, it's not possible for the bidders to talk. Therefore, we were never able to get any information about them. We are in an increasingly competitive mood about the State Officers' Law, about the working regime in general, about the working regime over the private sector regime. I mean, China is a multi-exporting, multi-producing country. Rather than that, we are pursuing a regime in which we are competing with China, such as in China, which is low wages, which is flexible work in China, which is crushed by a worker like the one in China. We're making laws about it, we're doing things about it. Why did I say that? Because these final arrangements also bring him in, and so do the regulations related to the Law of State Officers. We're bringing in more and more workers. Okay, China needs to be competed with, the whole world is trying to compete with China, but it's also taking countermeasures, developing regional alliances, protecting its own citizens, its own people, its own employees. To ensure that there is no competition with China, such as the Free Trade Agreement of the United States-European Union. To address a larger audience, to create a larger consumer population, and not to crush his own citizen within himself by setting a limit. We don't see them, we pressure them, I'm afraid we're putting the workers in trouble. I don't know if you've been able to keep up with the public on the subject of this bag of articles in the law. Officers' unions in particular had some approaches to the issue, they had demands, they had expectations of the bag of law. They explained them on various occasions, they put them on their websites, but most of us probably didn't see them, and we didn't want to find out. Look, I'll share some with you. For example, the MEMUR-SEN is demanding that all public officials be put on staff. You're going to say, "How do all public officials get recruited? Is the government that rich?" But we put 100,000 contractors on the staff. We're already paying 100,000 contractors. It's already costing the government, but it doesn't cost more when you're on staff, so it's going to be taken into account. Nothing's changed for the government. We'd have to put the 4/C/C on the staff. We should've put more of the contractors on the staff. We just looked at it as an election investment. On the other hand, at least 30 per cent of the total expert staff must be tested. He says, "Officer-Sen." The ban on politics against public officials must be lifted, he says. The curfew must be lifted, he says. The provisions prohibiting public officials from becoming union members must be lifted from the force. As for the public-Sen, all contract personnel should be staffed. The areas in Turkey that need officers should be assessed in three or four separate categories according to the need situation, where those who serve in these places should be paid by 40, 60, 80, 100 per cent extra in gross salaries. A public official who serves in the primary cities of development must also take advantage of his wife's encouragement to progress gradually. They also have an opinion called "Advantage." ▪ Redefined disciplinary sentences and reduced sentences must be imposed. The last time we brought a record pardon was in 2004, and we didn't get a record pardon for what happened after that, and there was that kind of expectation by the unions. Both KESK and those who are employed at ▪4/C status have demands such as redecorating the ruler, which determines the rates of special service compensation, and expanding the qualifications for public service. None of the demands of Officer-Sen, Public-Sen, and KESK were considered. None of it. There's virtually nothing in this bag of laws about them, and this bag of laws doesn't do almost anything except put 100,000 officers on staff. I'm afraid all this trouble isn't paying off either. I give you all my regards on this occasion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0063par0150	Thank you. He wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. He's a member of the Kars MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0064par0152	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the third chapter of the Law Proposal, where there are 478 rows, some amendments to the provisions of the Law and the Law. On this occasion, I salute you all. Members of parliament, the Article 38 of Business Health and Safety Law 6331 is scheduled to be changed into Article 38.6.2012, which is legal until the year 2014, six months, one year and two years of different substances shall be gradually postponed in the application clause of the law. Despite our objections last year, the law passed by the AKP's government changes its implementation clause on the regulation by 2014. SMEs, whose staff is less than 50, or less than 95 per cent of companies in Turkey, are extended to have occupational safety experts. While workers are dying at work and urgent measures must be taken, the arrangement also supports capital and employers. While we were under the Health and Safety Act, we expressed a lot of objections. It is the first time we bring such a law, although the AKP boasts that it is not accepted for occupational health and safety. The government's job is not to ensure the health and safety of the work, but to ensure the health and safety of the worker. However, as in the name of the law, the goal is solely to protect capital. The extension of the work spaces to have experts is clear that you have no attitude for workers because the intention is different. Business murders have been declared at least 104 in the past June. Moreover, five of the life - giving workers are child laborers, 21 of them are construction workers, 20 of them are seasonal workers, and 13 of them are municipal workers. As it turns out, the construction industry, which lacks all business health and safety conditions, has very high casualties. Almost all construction sectors are run by subcontractors, and 99 per cent are seasonal workers, according to TÜİK 2011. Again, the 2010 bag of legislation and subcontractorship in municipalities have been opened and the job killings have increased. Therefore, we must urgently make arrangements to prevent subcontractors, to ensure that seasonal workers can work safely and well. In Article 59 of the bill, regulations have been made concerning bookkeeping specialists, assistant experts and assistant tax inspectors. It also includes a change in the ability of bookmaster experts to be appointed financial experts. While they have the right to appeal by appealing to the court on the removal of the bookmakers, this arrangement has been ignored. If they are relieved of duty and appointed as a financial expert, they will not be entitled to those rights. The goal here is to remove the bookstellers that the AKP did not want, prevent them from suing the administrative court, and appoint the people they want as book clerks. In addition, another important provision in this article is that the tax inspector's assistant exams conclude that workers who have won the exam are expected to work in different units between those who are in a five per cent tranche and those who are not in it. Here, in the central organization of those who enter the 5 per cent, it is considered that those who do not enter are employed in the country, and those who are successful in the same test are categorized before they begin, and they are asked to be employed in different units by central-level division. As a result, it is necessary to categorize those who are successful in the tax inspector's exam as well as preventing bookmakers from resorting to the judicial path. In addition, the political government must resist the approach of the bureaucracy to impose its demands on us, which governs law enforcement, and not allow such situations to take place. Mr. President, I'd like to address a matter that has hurt the public's conscience, which has led to the reaction of Kurdish people and all opposition to freedoms. Those talking about rights and freedoms and democracy have recently signed another violation. The decision by the Danish Copenhagen State Court to cancel the license of Roj TV, Nuce TV, MMC TV channels against the law has once again demonstrated the European policy of the Kurdish people, both Turkey and Kurdistan, with interest calculations. The Kurdish people and all oppressed people condemn this decision as revenge against the free press, and the free press cannot be silenced. It is a decision that defies the principle of publishing and culture of the peoples in the main language. It is a blow to human rights and freedoms, to the right of public knowledge and to the right of public knowledge. In order for this coup to fail, we say once again that we will continue to fight for the free press. As it is known, from the 90th century to today, both visual and written free press, which have repeatedly tried to block the literature, has been attacked repeatedly and managed to come to this day, with extreme consequences. From now on, he will continue this tradition of fighting with his people. That way both the public's reaction and the country's attempts to undermine human rights and freedoms must be abandoned immediately and legal regulations must be made for the broadcast of these television channels in Turkey, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0065par0163	Thank you. Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants to speak on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0066par0166	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There's a lot to say about Division. Anyway, instead of repeating here one more time how the entire bagload of legislation has negative effects on the quality of legislation, I'd like to draw the attention of the Grand Assembly once again to what's happening at this time in Taxim. First of all, it's important to say that tomorrow's Travel Park (Turkish Square) will be opened to the public. The people, the children of these people -- if these are not from Mars, if these are our children -- were preparing for a very peaceful, highly comical act today at the Summit...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0067par0169	The Home Secretary is behind you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0066par0170	...and they headed for the taxi to get up there. They didn't have Molotov cocktails, or the key stones the Prime Minister famously made, or anything to hurt anyone. But then again, unfortunately, today they saw the TOMAs, who were greeted with pressure water, pepper spray, and baton when he appeared. We are facing a situation where we expect Mr. Home Secretary to intervene in this matter; Turkey needs to take it out of the image of a regime and a police state, a state run by police, which is a little more authoritarian every day. In fact, you have to approach the issue from here: It is said that we will open it to the public, but when the children of the people walk there today, they attack and refuse to allow it. Minister, are there two people in Turkey? We do not come to separate him from the children of the famous 50 percent of the prime minister's children like the children of the other 50 percent. Some of the children of that 50 percent want to put their actions in that square today. And don't ever, ever try to make us like this and turn us against each other. This issue, ironically, has always been reminded that the public has stormed the beaches, and the citizen has not been able to get into the sea. The joke is nothing more than that you once again brought it to Turkey in 2013. We're having an interesting time. One of the most important values in politics is consistency. When we criticize each other, the easiest place in power-Muslim relations is the area where we can squeeze each other and gain superiority over the other, the point where we capture the inconsistency of the other, and the proven inconsistency of the politician is forced, troubled. Now, for example, when I criticise Mr. Elitas, for example, a similar application that was done in Parliament fifteen years ago, he can talk about a similar response to that, or he can go down to the Prime Minister's Ottoman archives and criticize someone and find a discrepancy there, and in the past your grandfathers, your ancestors, your ancestors, your ancestors might try to embarrass someone, their political opponents. Not a hundred years, not ten years, but in the same day -- there are two squares; one of them is Tabam Square, one of them is Tahrir Square, and now, let's see what the ruling representatives say about Salam Square, and let's see what they say about Tahrir Square. Yesterday, government spokesman Mr. Çelik says to the NTV screens, "It's an act of civil disobedience against what's being done by the people against what's being done, it's a violation of human rights and any right to stand up against it, we're against it. I'll sign under it. You're telling the truth, but how can you not say that to me about the right to be the most important use of civil disobedience?" Or if someone took your words for my taxi...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0068par0173	There's a coup, there's a coup. Is there a coup here?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0066par0174	If he tries to tell you about Tarhir Square, how do you answer that?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0068par0176	There's a coup, there's a coup.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0066par0177	We, you see, at the time of the coup, both the Speakers of the Republican People's Party signed and I stepped out of this chair, my friends. We said from this platform, but we're unresolved: he's a chosen man, we condemn the coup against him, and we express it as the greatest crime. I said, your friends applauded here, but consistency, inconsistency is such an argument. If a tenth of the words of the division were to be spoken for Tahrir, you would stand up and cry out. Look, those who want to go out there today are also doing a civil disobedience, and they are going up there to seek their rights. They have nothing, and they have no intention of overthrowing the government. They were only going to spray water on each other with toy guns, where they were going to have a water holiday, but the AKP, as it poisons every holiday, managed to poison this beautiful civil disobedience of these children on this holiday day. Congratulations, you guys.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit03spe0069par0180	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0069par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 132nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Now, the person who wants to speak on the department's behalf is Salih Husband, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0070par0006	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my own behalf on the third chapter, including the 53rd and 72nd amendments of the underprivileged law. I salute the General Assembly. Our coven performs a truly important performance before going on vacation, continuing its work late into the night. As a result, our people will receive better services and our institutions will provide healthier services. The changes that will be made will be met by various demands of our society and institutions. The Law Proposal 478 of which we have discussed will again smile on the faces of many of our citizens, and this is our greatest motivation. We give thanks to those who have already done so in the work of this law that will make our people smile and cause us to receive their prayers. In the third chapter, where we begin our talks, an arrangement is being made for students who have been part-time in the Law on the Offices and Jobs of the CSI presidency. Thus, it is possible to continue to receive scholarships or loans given to students who are part-time in the OSYM, and to benefit from institutional homes. Again, there is a change in the implementation clause of the Law on Health and Safety. With this arrangement, the implementation of the Law on Health and Safety shall be postponed to further dates. In addition, it is possible that if the conditions for public partnerships cannot be met on the boards of directors, the Capital Market Board will be able to appoint the minimum board members to serve until new members are elected, and the board of directors will be able to meet enough. Another thing we're going to discuss is the Power Market Act. The arrangement aims to speed up wind energy investments by revisiting the application to investors who have been rejected because they have been granted a license from license application for wind energy-based production activities, but are unable to fulfil their responsibilities. A amendment to the department's office's decisions on the Agency and its duties has been made, as well as an arrangement for the office's office's deputy chief, bookkeeping, expert and expert assistant staff, which is also reorganised in case tax inspectors leave the post. In order to facilitate the work of other media broadcasters with the next arrangement, Turkey's media database project, which is under way, will be brought to life. In addition, training and information meetings in order to strengthen our local media will ensure a more comprehensive quality. Our Ministry of Youth and Sports has been able to establish the National Youth Council with a clause added to the Law Act on the Agency and its duties. From the very beginning, a new one has been added to our government's steps in order for our generations to be trained in the best way and to have a say in every field. It will be transferred from our Ministry's budget so that the added clause and the National Youth Council can carry out their activities. This will enable the National Youth Council to implement projects that will enable our young people in social, economic and political areas. Youth organizations will be co-ordinated. I would also like to share with you the following feelings regarding the agenda: There have been very important arrangements made at the Travel Park, especially as part of our city municipality's footing project. Looking at the recent photos, we can see that the Travel Park had a very different atmosphere. Hundreds of thousands of newly planted flowers, dozens of trees, and Travel Park welcomes us to a colorful welcome. We thank all those who have worked so hard on this occasion. The truth must never be taken out of their minds: This park is not just a particular segment, but the common value of all our people. It must be remembered that these expenses for our common value, the Travel Park, are being made from the resources of our people. Therefore, no one should harm our nation's property with some excuse. As a partner in our nation's property, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0071par0017	Thank you. There will now be a question-answer procedure in 15 minutes. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0072par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, don't make the people and the people's children stand up to the police and tear our people apart. The police have the right to justice, to live as a human being, and to work as a human being. Since you have not corrected the rights of the police, today in the district of Çeşme, Izmir has taken the life of police officer Erol Küçe. How many more cops do you expect to commit suicide to correct the police's rights? My respects.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0073par0023	Thank you. Mr. Serker...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0074par0025	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President has made a very good speech saying that democracy and the coup will not be united today, according to a report in the newspapers. In this direction, how do you interpret the fact that the Turkish Language Foundation has involved in the concept of coup to force government to resign in democratic ways by changing the meaning of the word "darbe" and making an addition? What sanctions will be imposed on the president of the Turkish Language Foundation who made such an attempt? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0073par0027	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0075par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've given the contractors a position, so good luck to our chartered brothers. It's not the first time. Are you going to continue hiring again from now on? When are you going to stop the habit of bypassing the personnel regime using a contract staff? When are you going to hire the 4/C? When are you going to hire the people whose staff has been taken over by your power? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0076par0032	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0077par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the changes to the SNS are said to be granted the right to work under the authority of the president to university students or officers within the OSI. How do you think you will resolve the problems this situation will cause in the future? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0078par0037	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0079par0039	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that at this moment, today again, in the taxi, at the Travel Park, people were attacked with lines, and all of these images are in plain sight. On the other hand, the Home Secretary is making a statement, saying: "The police will go there and go there with the TOMA people. " Is it the police's job to stand in front of people who have never been involved in a crime there, or to stop those people from committing crimes in there with lines on their hands? We want to make this very clear. Because in the Travel Park, people can't use their constitutional, legal rights in this country. By the decree of a governor... I have forbidden it. He says, forbids it, I bring in the people I want... I'd like your opinion on that.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0078par0041	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0080par0043	Mr. Secretary, those of the permanent business owners who were damaged in the 1999 earthquake -- who didn't pay with a bag of laws -- were seized if they didn't pay within three months. But since this notice was not made to citizens, about 1,300 citizens were victims. Among them are 40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent disabled, and many who can't even watch the work. We've submitted the request of these citizens with a law proposal, and these citizens have become victims because they haven't been served. Although we've said it over and over, the victims of these citizens have not been relieved. Are you planning on leaving? Do you plan to give notices and pay off people who have already paid for their permanent employment? Because the payments aren't being made right now. That's the problem.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0078par0044	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0081par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what objective and moral code did you use in the election of 96,500 people who were elected to be civil servants in this bag of laws? In this particular way, have our citizens who are civil servants been distributed according to geographical areas? Has this distribution been followed in justice? What is the reason for the removal of those who were removed from the bill during the talks here, even though it had previously been part of the bill? How do you intend to evaluate the casts that have been discharged from these? Finally, is it considered to be arranged within the framework of this bill to raise salaries for the families of the martyrs and our veterans?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0078par0048	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0082par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the speaker just drew a different taxi table, flowers, roses. He probably read the text prepared and handed to him before today's initiatives. An hour ago, my daughter called me from Istanbul, 11 years old. Today he went to Istanbul to see his brother, and I met Papa with pepper spray. He called me, an 11-year-old girl. I said good luck, girl. But Dad, I couldn't understand why they threw a gas bomb into a five-story building. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, how am I supposed to raise my 11-year-old as a citizen, as a person who loves the state, loves the people, loves the police? My daughter calls me in tears and tells me she's been exposed to pepper spray. When will you hear the cries of thousands, tens of thousands of people like this?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0083par0053	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0084par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2007, the AKP election statement ruled that the police's rights would be corrected, Mr. Secretary. Why hasn't it been corrected, even though in 2007 there was this ruling that the rights of the police would be corrected and you made this promise? How many times do you have to make that promise? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0085par0058	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0086par0060	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we've all just seen on the television broadcasts, with a machete in hand, with a line, in front of the police, who have no criminal element in their hand, who just want to use the right to perform. These images have happened before. Has anyone ever been taken into custody from previous hand-lines, machetes, if they did, were they sent in for any arrests as a result of their interrogation? Has such an arrest occurred? What do you think of these images tonight? Where do these people get the authority from in front of the police and attack young people with their lines? How do you view a government like this in 2013? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0087par0063	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Silver...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0088par0065	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you left the questions on the S.E.S. exam out of your right to get information. Now, are the questions wrong, or what's going on with their answers, and they're out of their right to get information? When such events occur, we, reluctantly the MPs, suspect that they are Turkish people. It's already questionable, the results of the OSD, the many trials. Now, his shadow has increased and his appearance is improving. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0089par0068	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0090par0070	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have had a question regarding the rights of our police officers.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0091par0071	Mr. Secretary... would you like to see it, Mr. Secretary? They're attacking the children with a cleaver. Do you want to watch?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0089par0073	Mr. Secretary will answer, please, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0091par0074	Do you still consider yourself a legitimate minister?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0089par0076	Congressmans, please... Mr. Secretary, please answer the questions, answer the questions.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0092par0079	Yes, our fellow police officers...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0089par0081	Mr. Yüksel, please take your seat, Mr. Yüksel...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0093par0082	Sit down!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0089par0083	Mr. Ascendant... Mr. Secretary, you answer me, please.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0094par0085	Yes, police officers: Before the AK PARTI administrations, a police officer who worked in the four quarters of a year received a salary of 816 Turkish liras. Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0089par0086	Taking a break...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0095par0087	Why are you bothering me, gentlemen? Shame on you! Where is he, Home Secretary?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0096par0088	You asked questions, you didn't get the answers.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0097par0089	As of July 2013, a police officer's salary is 3,091 Turkish liras. The increase is 279 percent. In 2002, a police officer who had begun his duties from the two branches of the 9th century... [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Mr. President, why don't you shut him up and we'll talk?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit04spe0098par0092	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0098par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 132nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. The question-answer on chapter three is complete. Now, Mr. Muammar Guler, the Home Secretary, has asked for a statement, and they will make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0099par0009	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, this evening in Istanbul, on social media, on call for an illegal meeting during the day...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0100par0010	What's illegal about it, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0099par0011	Sir, yes, I'll tell you it's an illegal meeting.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0101par0012	Don't crack and listen!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0102par0013	Oh, please!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0099par0014	A call has been made for an unlawful meeting. He called for a meeting at the taxi, even though there were no legal appeals. The Law on Meetings and Demonstrations No. 2911 is subject to the conditions set in the law for meeting in parks on general roads. Now, for once, our security forces have taken the necessary precautions to prevent such an illegal gathering. We allow press statements in Galatasaray, in front of Galatasaray High School and on Istiklal Street, as usual, but the insistence of the group's meeting in Taxi has been blocked by security forces. After this obstruction, some marginal groups fled into the streets and attacked the police with stones and Molotovs and were forced to distribute them by law enforcement forces. On Halaskargazi Street, following the dispersal, two people have been identified as attacking some people with a stick and a line or a machete that is reflected in social media today. They were captured by security forces. It has been determined that there are two people who work as tradesmen on that street, and they are being processed. My dear friends, no illegal action, no action is allowed to be tolerated. Of course, as ugly as this is, it is not right to provoke these people against others, as a member of a certain political party. We must all act in common sense. We're against illegal demonstrations, we're against illegal acts. It is also our duty to prevent any acts of violence or illegal action that prevents the safety of people's lives and property. They'll be processed. I respectfully present the knowledge of the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0103par0018	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a promise to the group presidents in order.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0104par0020	Is that so hard to say, that you've created so much tension?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0103par0021	Mr. Pine, please, Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0105par0022	Bastard, did you wait? Did you listen? Did you listen to the minister?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0103par0023	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0106par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. In the session just now, of course, there have been unpleasant images of our Parliament, especially representing the will of the nation. First of all, I'd like to condemn and condemn those who have caused these images, that these images are not true. Mr. Secretary has been asked questions in the previous session. As our Minister began to answer these questions, unfortunately, again, he was tried in some way by those who asked the questions, and even tried to get out of his seat and go to the stand. Of course, there's no way to accept them. In the same way, it is not lawful for a minister elected by the will of the nation. It is not appropriate for any party member, nor any MP to describe it as such. Legality passes through the will of the nation, and no one can say to the minister of government, who represents the will of the nation, that he is not a legitimate minister. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, democracy has national will. In national will, of course, the minority's claim to the majority is never acceptable, and the minority's rights must be protected and managed in some way. Besides, Mr. Secretary, with those images, the two people in those images were captured, and if the opportunity had been given, if there had been an opportunity in the previous session, there would have been two people in that video who had been captured and processed. Bekir Bozdağ was also given that information by our Deputy Prime Minister, who would have expressed that information. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity or opportunity to express it, not given. So I'd like to express that I don't think I can describe these images, this painting that's happening here. In particular, our Şırnak MP Mehmet Emin Dindar has been subjected to an attack and has been injured in the eyebrow, and is now in hospital. I tell him to get well, and I condemn those who did. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0107par0031	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0033	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, what just happened is not what we want to see in our Parliament. I'd like to underline that very carefully. Of course, in the past three or five days, especially in violation of human rights, the work of thirteen or fourteen hours has caused tension to all of our MPs, creating a psychological pressure. The events of this evening, as everyone sees on the Internet, on television -- it's a provocation, which is, I don't know, but we'll never, ever want to see in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0109par0037	Hey, guys, did we just cut you guys off when your group president was talking?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0038	...and the events that none of us can accept have also stretched out to us, so it's true. I don't think any lawmakers would go to the Minister of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Parliament during a commission with the intention of an act of assault. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] So if you'll listen... let me ask the ruling party group: when I'm done speaking, show me your reaction, because it can be misunderstood. Last time we started something about our BDP friends visiting Sinop, there was a reaction, and then I said something else. Please, listen. I'm always telling you, it's a little more patience for you. Of course, here, we have executive supervisors as part of the operation of this Parliament, and we have a group of vice presidents. And I've already been here, and I've grown up, and despite everything -- I mean, no actual assault on the minister -- while I was moving there so that there would be no verbal insult, some of your friends would go there before our supervisors, like, a series, fast, like, in the sense of intervention, Mr. Secretary's behavior in the protection reflex was the beginning of these unwanted events. [[From the AK PARTY rows, the sounds of the Aaaa...]] Well, what can I tell you then? I mean, what can I tell you?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0110par0044	Congressmans, please... we've been talking to the members of the group in there, Mr. Lawmakers, please hear me out.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0045	No, they won't, Mr. President, they won't listen. It would appear so. And then we all saw things, and there were curses. Is it said that only opposition party MPs swear? No, I've heard 7-8 ruling party MPs swear, and it's from here. There should be no blasphemy in Parliament, but there may be debate in Parliament, there may be debate. Look, dear friends, don't pick on me. Sarcasm is essential to Parliament, but while Mr. Secretary was just responding, your attitude as a group was beyond teasing, it was harassment; you will accept it. He won't admit it. Come on, we're here. We're here. We're here with 50 percent of the nation's votes. We'll steal it ourselves and sing it ourselves. Please get rid of the logic. It's no good to Turkey, to you and to your party.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0111par0047	Talk to the president.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0048	Mr. President, what should I do now?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0112par0049	We're listening, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0050	So if my conversations bother you, we can't live here, under the same roof, brother. If you're uncomfortable with my conversation, what are we going to talk about? I speak as calmly as I can. You've got three vice presidents here.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0113par0051	Mr. Altay, please stop talking in private.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0052	But, Mr. President, I mean, do you want me to...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0113par0053	Copy that, yes. Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0054	Yes, we said no swearing. At the ruling party, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I have a visual. For the past three or five months, don't be offended by the world's events. Democracy will never be interrupted again in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0114par0055	You're Gocunan.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0056	But all your reflexes are about this small. For a week, you've been a few coupgers, you're a coupger. You're nothing but a coupger, brother. That won't be necessary. The minister is not legitimate. The expression is...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0115par0058	Yes, Mr. Altay, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0059	I'm ending it, Mr. President. It'll be good if it's over, it'll be nothing if it's unfinished.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0115par0060	But finish...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0061	The minister is not legitimate. The expression is a political thing, Mr. President of the Group.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0116par0062	How can that be?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0063	I mean, that's what I think. He says. But if you understand the legitimacy, if you understand the respect of the national will, we gave his greatest example, perhaps the example of the world's political history, by changing the ban on Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan by changing the Constitution, removing it. No one respects national will more than we do. I'm stressing that, please. In summary and in conclusion, I would like to say that the 34th article of the Constitution and demonstration march are the basic rights and freedoms for citizens. But, of course, there is also a decree under which the law is arranged. But I also know that the government allows a lot of illegal demonstrations, Mr. Secretary, and that the government members are involved in those illegal demonstrations. And today, I said to your husband at about 8:00 p.m.: Mr. Minister, please -- news from the taxis coming in -- no interference, no hard feelings. Let it be a barricade, but let Turkey no longer be nervous. People in Turkey want to be happy, to make sure that their country will come. I'm the one who said that, and as a result of what happened here today -- it doesn't count as a punch in the fight; I wish it wasn't -- one of our friends got kicked on the floor.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0117par0065	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0108par0066	I'm finishing. I'm telling our congressman to get well soon, Mehmet Emin Dindar. I'm so sorry, it's a sad thing for us, too, but I wish everyone could control their nerves, their reflexes. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0118par0069	Thank you. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0119par0072	Mr. President, my fellow MPs, as the National Movement Party Group, I wish you the best of all to Şırnak MP Mehmet Emin Dindar. Indeed, it has dealt with a result that was never desired. But he was one of the calmest men in our House, one of the most calm MPs. Also, if we have any other injured friends, I wish them all the best. Wrong is wrong, dear friends. If we don't stand together in the face of error, we'll gain legitimacy. For him, the wrong must be expressed honestly and bravely. It is completely wrong to attack this bench, to storm the presidential bench, to attack the minister's seat, where the commission sits, and it is a common responsibility for all of us not to make that mistake. I don't think Mr. Mahmoud Tanal has any intention of hitting the Minister, I hope. I believe that if there wasn't an intervention, he would have gone in there screaming and coming back, but here's the thing: we're not sure about each other. I mean, it's not right if we're always treating each other like criminals, and the results aren't good, and there are consequences that don't fit here. Dear lawmakers, very small matters can come to conclusions we have never foreseen, and it will upset us all, and beyond upsetting us, our coven will be wounded. It was in 2000, if I remember correctly -- Mr. President will also remember -- because of a very simple discussion, one of our MPs here, at the end of this kind of struggle, lost his life and one of our fellow lawmakers died; he was tried as the perpetrator of that incident, and his political life ended. Therefore, we are obliged to take measures, at any cost, for all of us, for all of the MPs, especially as members of the group presidents, especially as the Presidential Court, to predict the possibility, to predict the possible development. It seems that -- as a friend of ours has expressed -- this tense work pattern that's been going on for over a week has upset our nerves, the glass is full, it carries the smallest drop. This House is important, this House must not be closed. When we say something, I refuse a statement as if we were demanding that the House be closed after a fight, such an image would never suit us. This House must not be closed, this Parliament must work. But if the atmosphere is predisposed to disrupt our friendships, if there is a possibility that there may be events here that we cannot foresee, if there is a possibility that there may be unsavory events in the House's jurisdiction, then we really need to stop and rethink. No law is more important than human life, no law is more important than the honor of this House, no law is more important than our desire to be together, our will to work together. I wish again, no more of this. Let's not all get up. So if 20 people stand up to the verb of one person, they don't predict results. For him, I express my regrets, I hope he doesn't, and I wish these wounded friends well again on behalf of my group. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0120par0078	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0121par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on behalf of my group, I wish my condolences to Mr. Mehmet Emin Dindar, who has been injured. But at the same time, I want to say that it's not right to march on the ministers. This is a place where the lines of the House and the council chair surrender the will of the people. So, this Congress is a roof where problems are discussed, problems are solved, but unfortunately, this Congress is also a scene of images that we have to watch from time to time, where curses, fists fly in the air, sadly, bored and ashamedly. The images just happened to upset all of us. I didn't want to watch this footage as a women's MP, so I went out. We've seen this footage a lot, we've lived a lot, but we've been embarrassed and bored and apologized every time, and even though we apologized, it happened again, and we've seen another one here tonight. The fact that the MPs beat each other up, the ministers walking on top of them really embarrasses us and embarrasses us. The images that just happened, not just us, but our people and our people, as well. So, if we've been chosen as the will of a people, if we've come under the roof of this House, we have to respect these people. I wish that these images would never happen again, that these images would never happen again. Once again, I wish our wounded, hurt friends well.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0122par0086	Yes, thank you. So we say to our friend Mehmet Emin Dindar, "Get well soon." All the words have been said, there is nothing to be said. [[Continue]] The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate votes after I've done the motion on that clause, if there is one. In accordance with the decision taken, Article 53 (a), (b), (c), and (d) will be discussed separately. In Article 53 (a) there are two motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and of the First Amendment of Articles of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778), and of the First Article of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778), I propose that the Article (a) be changed in certain Laws and Codes of Laws shall be changed, and shall be presented in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal The 11th article of Article 4 (a) has been changed into the setting of the commissions and setting up commissions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 53 (a) of the Law Proposal be removed from its text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0123par0115	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0122par0116	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0124par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0122par0118	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0125par0119	Izzet Cetin.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0122par0120	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0126par0121	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the motion on Article 53 of the proposed bill. I salute you all. Dear friends, it is clear that this proposal of the law, its submission, its preparation, its content, its attitude during the negotiations, is far from the technique of making everything law. Really, when you look at the ingredients in it, there's no way you're going to come up with any judgment that's so urgent that it's so urgent, so extreme that it's so urgent. Now, here we have the Deputy Speaker, and here we have the members of the group. Unsolicited events have occurred, and after such an incident, we will still make the House a law. To try and force it to work and force it... I hope that, after a few minutes or hours, the unwanted events will not happen again. That's why I know that lawmakers, all my friends, have a very heavy burden. Dear friends, really, it's hard to negotiate, but there are 6 articles, 7 clauses of the SNSM Act. I mean, how many years have you had in the OSD... when did you get out of the OSD Act? 2011. It's been two years and four months. Two years have been changed 20 times since four months. It's all 11 points. I mean, what if an institution where higher education and all exams are conducted in Turkey, such as the OSD, and it has to change its law 20 times in those two years, and it has to change it? Does no one in the government, the executive body, have the authority to say, "What are you guys doing?" What are you changing now? Again, you attempt to change some of the provisions in the (a) joke. (a) In (b) you are again playing with four or five articles, almost all of them. I don't think you should have the right. I mean, it's really a scandal that an institution that is incapable of making its own law is still doing some work that will shape, determine the future of Turkey. Since the day you've already played with the former staff of OSYM, the OSYM has become a scandal-making institution in Turkey, with no credibility. Turkey may have been one of the most reliable institutions three years ago, but today it has been transformed into an institution where students, parents, scientists, intellectuals at the university, everyone is having fun. There's no way you can do that with amendments. What needs to be done is to place qualified staffs that really deserve the OSD, and turn them back into a decent institution, like they used to be. Dear friends, look, today is a very painful day in Turkey. Mr. Secretary just told me, he explained the incident. So we say, "It's true." We believe. Until when? Until it really comes to light. If Mr. Secretary were here, if he'd come up to the stand and provided some information about the events in Salam, it wouldn't have happened. Indeed, the fact that the government opened up to all parts of the country and was shut down in the name of this ship's activists, defending freedom, using violence to defend peace makes a certain number of people nervous, and indeed, the government's use of violence has moved them to an unacceptable point of view of our country. Therefore, the government must, of course, learn from the countries around us, from the developments around us, but suppressing it through violence is the most immature, the most cowardly, the most non-democratic method. People are our people, there's a day coming in, after sports, despite curfews, there's a tour of honors, buses coming in, demonstrations coming in, there's an unauthorized music show going on. While all of this is allowed, preventing, instigating, peace-seeking arrivals may not bring any positives to the Republic of Turkey. So the job is to understand young people, listen to them, and soften the mood. That's probably what Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government should do in the first place, the AKP Group should do. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0127par0129	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and of the First Amendment of Articles of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778), and of the First Article of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778), I propose that the Article (a) be changed in certain Laws and Codes of Laws shall be changed, and shall be presented in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The 11th joke of Article 4 (a) has been changed in the form of setting up commissions and setting up commissions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0128par0137	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0127par0138	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0129par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0127par0140	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0130par0142	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 15th article (a) in the framework of Bag 478, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this article changes the organisation and duties of the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, which has been changed with the date of February 17, 2011 and the last amendment to Law 6114, which has been renamed by this law. In this (a), the duties of the Governing Body are listed in the 11th article of the 4th article of the law in question. See, the one we changed (a) to, I read it exactly the same way, what it brings, then I will address your conscience. So, the first of the Governing Body's duties is to set up the authorities to prepare the examination questions or to form the commissions for the examinations. What are we doing now with this bag of legislation? (a) I am rereading it: Newly one of the Governing Body's duties is to set the necessary principles for preparing the examination questions or for the examinations. Dear lawmakers, the OSCE is privatizing the team that prepares the questions in the examinations, and I will no longer be doing the task, says the CSI. That's what that means. Even though until today, the claims presented in the KPSS exams were inconclusive, that the original copy of the ESYM President's original exam manual was sold in some provinces before the test, and then wronged many people, even though the Ankara republic's attorney-in-chief explained that the questions in the original pamphlet were leaked via the Internet, the vice president of the republic's attorney-in-chief, who has now failed to conclude it... who will now be prepared for questions about the examinations made in the OSYM. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's ask: Who will prepare these questions? Now, how do we prevent these injustices, injustices, irregularities, in an uncertain environment, when it's obvious that those who steal the questions, leaks can't be found, and they can't be punished? This change we're making is a very important change. If you do not remove from the duties of the Governing Body of OSI and determine who you will give it to, we will all be subject to the consequences of any future violations, irregularities, stealing questions, theft, and other attempts to obtain similar rights. We have to stop this. This motion is vital to this, and it is also prepared by our group, so that the board of directors, as it used to be, will identify the officials who will prepare these test questions and establish the principles. If we can't put the declaration of duty back in place, then every child of 76 million of our people, every young person, will be responsible for the irregularities, injustices, and a lot of unsavory behaviors that will eventually be signed by lawmakers. With these thoughts, I would like to remind you that our motion is a very important and appropriate motion. If you say "no" to this motion, the MPs who say "yes" will have to re-examine their own conscience in the following cases. I bid you good evening, I expect your support in our motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0131par0151	Thank you. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 53 (b) there are three motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The fourth sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 53 (b) and Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of the Law on which 478 is currently in session has been lifted from effect," we propose and propose the release of the first clause of Article 5/5/2006 of the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance (b) of Article 5 (b) from the text of the law. With all due respect. 03.07.2013 Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Fatma Nur Serter Özgür Special Kazım Kurt Kadir Gökmen Öğen Sinan Aydın Aygün Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 53 of the current 478 Numbered Law Proposal is "only the cost of the road according to its provisions." We offer and propose that the following part of the declaration be removed from the substance. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani Secret Sakık İbrahim Binici Hasip Kaplan Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and of the First Amendment of Articles of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778), and of the First Article of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778), and of the First Article (b) under whom I propose and propose that the amendments be made in Articles of the Law and Laws shall be changed. Alim Ik Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır "b) The fourth sentence of Article 6's 13th joke has been lifted from effect, "which is part of the same joke, "is not paid for according to its provisions." Its declaration is "only paid for the road expenses according to its laws." The same article has been replaced and added to the following joke." " (19) Those in need of presidential services from those registered in the presumption, bachelor's and grad degree programmes of higher education institutions may be sometimes employed in temporary jobs for applications, preferences, presentations of examination documents and similar examination services. The part-time fee for students to be paid for an hour's work cannot exceed the daily gross minimum fee, dated 22/5/2003 and specified for workers over the age of sixteen, according to Business Law 4857. It does not result in payment for part-time work, the right to a scholarship or a student loan issued by the Higher Education Loan and Homes Association, or the removal of the right to use the same institutional housing. The income they receive as their rightful owners and their monthly incomes are not cut off because of their work. The sum of the weekly work period and the amount of payment to be paid on the part-time training of students and other procedures and bases are determined by the Ministry of Finance by the presidency. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0132par0183	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0131par0184	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0133par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0131par0186	It's Mr. Günal who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0134par0187	A scholar's light.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0131par0188	Alim Ikm, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0135par0190	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, I salute the High Council. Again, a new amendment is being brought to the 6th Amendment of the OSCE Law: ▪ Presidents are not paid for, but road expenses are paid. There is an arrangement, which is of no importance, so there may or may not be a problem here. But a very important change is being brought in, which adds a new joke as the 19th joke. So the joke is, it's long, but the bottom line is that college students are temporarily given the right to work in different jobs within the OSI, but there's nothing about who these students are, how they're going to be, how they're going to be, how they're going to be, how they're going to be, how they're going to be, how they're going to be controlled, there's nothing about that. Dear lawmakers, all these young people are very important. We may have young people from Asia Minor who need half the minimum wage and even a tenth of it, but if we're going to make them work, we're going to make them work. I mean, there's no workers in Turkey, there's no workers, there's no officers, what happens? Let's determine that. If such authority is given, how will this be chosen, which parents' children will be given this opportunity or who will determine it? Now, how are the valued lawmakers going to be held responsible for any problem leaking out there because of which child he chooses, if he can't handle the original test question he has? What kind of arrangement is that? If we're going to make it work, we're going to run it properly, we're going to set the rules... since this High Assembly has added a joke this wide, let's at least show who's going to work. ▪ How to run a master's degree, a master's degree, a master's degree, or a master's degree? He works like a slave. You're going to run the honors of the children of Anatolia, who are forced to pay a penny, with no authority, no legal rights. For God's sake, don't! I mean, don't look down on our people so much. We need to get this out of here, or we need to rearrange it. I'm going back to the subject just now. A previous word change is a change in the way that OSYM will then prepare test questions for other companies. You can't stand this plague. How will the SNSI, who can't find out who stole the questions himself, guarantee the future of these young people from now on, build a system of questions? For God's sake, don't! Let's review these changes. Let the members of the National Board of Education come out, let them see, we have a week of work ahead of us, but we need to rethink all the arrangements to take a break from where we left off tomorrow, which will completely change the OSYM's system. We can't bear this plague. Don't forget the 2012 KPSS, dear MPs. Based on allegations that the original copy should have been sold in some provinces two or three days before the exam date, the results confirmed these claims -- a republic's deputy chief prosecutor explained that the questions of this original copy were leaked out via the Internet, but it still didn't end two years later. WHEN you give such authority to such a person, we cannot prevent new problems from being born, and other things happen in this country. Ten counties ranked first in the first in Turkey. With those test results, we're putting a civil servant today, considering KPSS notes. I don't blame anyone, but someone from the CPS office got these questions right before the exam, and they were lucky to get them. The unreachables? They've worked so hard, they've prepared for so many years, and today, while government officials are being deployed, the children of Anatolia are looking outside, the precious MPs. Don't do this. We have to get ahead of these changes. These two matters are very important, I speak to your conscience, without any political debate. The changes in two subjects (a) and (b) jokes are extremely important. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You know, we have to do this mission, we just did it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0136par0199	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 53 of the current 478 Numbered Law Proposal is "only the cost of the road according to its provisions." We offer and propose that the following part of the declaration be removed from the substance. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0137par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0136par0207	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0138par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0139par0209	Motive.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0136par0210	I'm reading the reason: It is unfair not to consider students who are considered part-time employees, to be subject to short-term insurance arms only, therefore to be considered the start of insurance and service. Current legislation on employees must be implemented in part-time. This change aims to prevent the loss of rights. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The fourth sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 53 (b) and Article 6 of Article 6 of Article 6 of the Law on which 478 is currently in session has been lifted from effect," we propose and propose the release of the first clause of Article 5/5/2006 of the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance (b) of Article 5 (b) from the text of the law. With all due respect. 03.07.2013 Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0140par0220	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0136par0221	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0141par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0136par0223	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0142par0224	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I've also been promised a motion on the PTSD. I salute you all. Dear friends, in this (b) joke, the subsection of Article 6 (13) of the ESYM Act is lifted from effect. When you look at the law, it seems extremely innocent, but what is the third joke of this 6th article (13)? The president, the vice president, the head of the department, I. Legal Advisors, Press and Public Relations Advisors, CSI Central Experts, Assistant Experts and Branch Directors and those assigned to the presidency will not be paid the examination fee. So the CPS administration, which does 45 or 50 exams a year, will receive money from now on. Why was this institution founded, what does it do? He'll take the test. Well, won't he get paid for it? He'll take it. And from now on, he'll get paid per test, which is probably worth 2,000 liras. I mean, it's a shame if the president and executives of an institution that's in charge of this, who's being paid for it, are making such a suggestion. What's more shameful than that is to make it a law proposition and put it before the House. Again, I was curious about them, and I looked at them, and the vice president and vice presidents: full-time duty, plus grad schooling, additional tuition, plus a very brilliant payday at the OSYM companies, and now the test fee, plus board membership in the OSCEs... Of course, you can't help yourself here, so when it comes to creating new gain doors, you show yourself in a situation where you're not afraid to display them. If there's money, if there's a profit, you're making a very good law for your ally, for your ally, but we're also looking at the other provisions of this clause where you're going to write how much money you're going to give to students who are going to be employed -- who were just told by the National Party's spokesman -- who are going to be working under Law 5510. Maybe there's someone in you who can calculate it, $6.5 or 7 lira a day. Dear friends, it's a shame. I mean, students in college, poor family kids, they've been working at SFR for years, they're insured at SNSI, they're insured at the beginnings of insurance, they're getting paid like a man. I mean, so far, you're gonna be asking yourself for money per test, you're gonna be using the students you work for, the poor family kids as slaves. It's called taking advantage of students' hardship, their family's poverty, which is called "gabin" in law. There are many lawyers among you. I leave such an arrangement to the consciences of lawmakers from different parts of the AKP Group. I'm not ashamed, but I hope those who accept it will be ashamed, while I am adding new salaries to the non-satisfactory SFP staff, which makes it a law to pay the students as much as the minimum wage, I don't know how much. It's a real shame. Such an arrangement has reached the age of 20-25, perhaps because it has failed to complete its studies in poverty, will now rise, will come to work there part-time, part-time, and will not even be able to remove its allowance for it; however, the president and executives of the OSYM will not be able to pay for it, at least 2,000-2 per test. They'll profit 500 lira. There's nothing acceptable about it. Employment is shameful, but exploiting student labor is the most shameful of all. Therefore, our proposal is a thought - made suggestion. Instead of rejecting our offer emotionally, I say, at least accept it and let the students be paid for minimum wage, and let them be considered insured according to Law 5510, and I give you all respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0143par0230	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. In Article 53 (c) there are two motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and I propose to change the first joke of the 53rd Article (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) and to change the amendments in some Law and Laws. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandır Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu "c) Second joke in Article 8 of the article "inclusion of its foundings" added "to hide the exam papers, conduct the application centre or test coordinator services and" to be included." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and We propose that Article 53-c of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports of Development, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plans and Budget Commission Reports be removed from the bill, with the drafting of the Bill of the Law and Law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Haluk Ahmet Silver İzzet Çetin İlhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0144par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0143par0251	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0145par0252	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0146par0253	Alaatin Ascension...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0143par0254	Alaattin Yüksel, İzmir MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0147par0255	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish all our friends who just got hurt, well, I wish them well. I take it that a person hits a human being as a savage, that's how I see it, especially when you have a machete, a line, a gun, I can't even think of a word to describe beyond that violence. We've been here for a long time, almost a month, and we've been watching a month of persecution, atrocity, together in Turkey. And just now, as we watched what happened here, again at Salam, of course, when we saw those who attacked young children there with machetes, we heard about it, and that's a very human thing. I speak to all who have a conscience: You have children, and that can happen to you, perhaps in the past. No matter who it happens to, I'll continue to express it in the same way, to oppose it. We're always showing that in the face of those who've been attacked like this, without separating anyone because of this or this idea. Mr. Secretary says the machetes are tradesmen. Similar things have happened in Izmir. In Izmir, look, normal families, shopkeepers have videotaped what happened, and we have videos. There's already been a lawsuit. So the Minister sent an inspector. Again, what the Minister specifically told us is that, again, this is the investigation of the investigators, which I think is the way they're developing, in the sense that the clubs, the spiked clubs are tradesmen. But, Mr. Secretary, we've seen these sticks with sticks and spikes with cops. Behind the police, with the riot squad, we saw the normal families, 12 a.m., where are you going, where are you coming from? How does it happen with the police, the tradesman or someone else? And when we asked the chief of police, the chief of police said that they were the people first. How does it happen to the police chief, when we say to the public, they're armed with sticks and nails? He says, "They're civil police." He says, "They're civil police." He makes a formal statement, and Mr. Governor of İzmir replied, "Will he be a police officer with a club or a vest or a helmet?" The police commissioner said it was for these friends -- these attackers -- I'm sorry, my friends -- that came out of my mouth out of the blue -- for those who carried on this violence. To those who continue this persecution, the police are the police. He said, "The civil police." He said, "What did you do about that police commissioner?" I wonder. I think the chief of police ran that case. We've been talking to the commissioner all day. Yes, the AKP district building was also burned down in the events in İzmir. We called our friend, the head of the county, and we said, "Get well soon." We condemned the violence, and we condemned him. Still no one burned down the AKP County Building, no one caught him. There's cameras, everything. Mr. Secretary, where are the perpetrators? Find them, find them. Who's the provocateur? Let's see, let's see. I'm saying find these suspects. What happened in Istanbul: the governor of Istanbul has declared self-imposed martial law and declared a state of emergency. He says: "Sir, if you return to normal, then you will exercise your constitutional rights, you will react democratically." Does the governor have the right to self-proclaim the state of the anomaly? It's declaring a state of emergency, declaring martial law. Dear friends, there is talk of the governor again today, the governor says he will return to you in five minutes. He tells the activists that in five minutes the attack is coming, followed by an attack that goes up to the machetes. Our congressman is being sprayed in the face again, Mr. Vice President Gursel Tekin. In that case, we... that's not national will, that's what we're saying. I'm also questioning making this law here. Is that legal, guys? You bring in hundreds of laws, at night...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0148par0264	What do you mean, legitimate? Read the second joke of Article 34 of the Constitution!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0147par0265	Yes, I'm asking, I'm asking. In this case, a man who has wronged his own people, committed atrocities against his own people...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0148par0266	Take a look at two for 34, for the Constitution itself.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0147par0267	Sir, I'll question it, question it to see if it's legitimate. And I will question it in Tahrir, and will question it in Tiananmen, and will question it in Salim. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll question it anywhere to see if it's legitimate.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0149par0270	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0150par0271	Look twice at the Constitution 34.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0151par0272	The Constitution...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0152par0273	No democratic country in the world has a way of making such a law according to the constitution.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0153par0274	Mr. Yüksel, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0152par0275	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0154par0277	Take a look at two for 34, for the Constitution itself.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0152par0278	Sure, bring hundreds of laws, bag them, and they're legit. Is it legitimate?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0155par0279	Mr. President, why don't you warn the congressman who doesn't approve of the House's work?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0156par0280	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and I propose to change the first joke of the 53rd Article (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) and to change the amendments in some Law and Laws. "c) Second joke in Article 8 of the article "inclusion of its foundings" added "to hide the exam papers, conduct the application centre or test coordinator services and" to be included." Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0157par0287	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0156par0288	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0158par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0156par0290	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0159par0292	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course, I especially condemn the show of brute force that just happened here and will never be approved. Now, this shows one thing, once again, there are three laws of dialectics: the law of unity and struggle of opposites, the law of arbitraryity; the trilogy called thesis-antithesis-synthesis. I mean, whatever's going on out there, it's possible to reflect inside, but the struggle inside has to work on its intellectual and democratic character. Hence, brute force or, you know, some sort of primitive physical power demonstrations are not very meaningful today. In this regard, the government needs to see this point that Turkey has arrived. I especially want to remind the Justice and Development Party friends that society has seriously filled its subconscious. The slightest spark in society is now capable of causing serious social movements. It's important to consider this, and it's your duty to make sure that a mechanism that calms this society, this buildup, that uses this energy in a positive way, is our duty, all of us. I'd like to underline that in particular. What are we doing here? We're making a law. How do we make the law? We're building a postmodern law. What's this law we're making? He's turning one side, he's ruining the other. There are those who rejoice, and there are those on the other side who are sad. Can't we make this law in a fair, even, type and type of approach that anyone can benefit from? Of course we can. For example, who's going to pay for the psychological destruction of the underprivileged contractors, or who's going to answer for it? 100,000 people have been recruited. Well, why would 100,000 people sign up for the question? So, these 100,000 people have been put on the staff, and tomorrow, after a while, you'll be sad and come, and we'll make these 100,000 people sign up again. Who guarantees you won't call them? Because, this ruling puzzle, lift the bay, try the wrong power. You see, we're facing a change in the morning of the law that came in the evening. Now something else has happened. There is a $110 cost for this driver's license, so we have 110 euros for it, and here, the Supreme Assembly has reduced it to 15 TL. Why did you set $110 when it was 15 TL? Why did you reduce it to $110? I mean, we're making this House's reputation, the rule that this Assembly has made, literally, the law that it's made, in its own way, our own way of doing what we're doing. To do that, you have to make the law very carefully. The laws we bring are constantly changing, and the changeling is formed in a dimension that, after a while, is trying to change again, which is not acceptable. Dear MPs, measurement, evaluation, exam, curriculum, all of these are the inputs of the educational system. It is no doubt intended to open a university, build buildings and fill people with people, to raise educated people. It's not about material order and physical space, it's about raising a man in line with the needs of the age. We can make it very clear that nothing is right in a society that is wrong in the way it raises people. The way a society raises people shapes the future of that society. Colleges are where the human upbringing takes place in flesh and bone. The nations only go forward through their grown, productive, and qualified people. Speaking of which, time has run out, but I think it's safe to say that here. A French thinker, in the 19th century, says, "Let's have 50 of France's 50 greatest physicists, 50 chemists, 50 engineers, 50 poets, 50 factories, 50 bankers, 50 bankers. What will happen in this case? He says: In this case, the loss of these 3,000 manufacturers will make France a lifeless body. Now, let the lord of the ruler's brother, all the king's family, all the court overseers, the stewards, the chairless ministers, all the underprivileged ministers, and 10,000 landowners of the richest. What happens? We were sad, but we were sad because we had a good heart, he says. What would have changed in France's life? Nothing. Hundreds of thousands of people would immediately fill the empty spaces. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So the wasps rule us, so it's an upside-down order. Now, from here, let's put it in a sentence right now, and I'll talk about it a little bit later, but there's a good thing to say here: so this is -- as we just said -- this is -- in the hands of non-producer, non-invasive, non-inefficient mechanisms that put the country in a very bad position. But if we take the opposite, then the scale of the event will come to a whole other level.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0160par0301	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0161par0302	Mr. President, call the number of decisions you need to make.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit05spe0160par0303	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0160par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 132nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on Article 53 (c) of Law Proposal 478 was not enough to vote on Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri and his friends' motion. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit to your votes on Article 53 (c): Those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two proposals of the same nature in Article 53, which I will study and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officers Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act No. 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 53 of the Charter of the Charter be taken out of the proposal and submitted a proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Konya Manisa Osmaniye Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan Özcan Yeniçeri The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İlhan Demiröz İzzet Cetin Haluk Ahmet Silver Kazım Kurt Engin Altay Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0162par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0160par0025	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0163par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0160par0027	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0164par0029	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on behalf of Article 53 (c) of Article 53 (HP). I salute you all. Now, I'd like to bring up three very simple-looking but overlooked issues about the CSI. First of all, it's about the disabled students taking the exam. For disabled students who take the exam, as is known, they have been appointed a test worker to meet the need required by candidates due to the obstacle issues carried out by the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, and Anadolu University School of Open School across the country. Test officials assigned as reader-signers read the questions found in the exam brochure for disabled candidates and mark the answers given by the candidate. However, because the staff assigned as reader-signers were randomly selected and did not receive any training, disabled candidates have failed the exam due to reader-signing issues, losing morale and motivation. When a person is assigned as a reader-signer whose voice is slow and slow to read, what they say is clear, and unclear, it affects the rapid response of questions by disabled candidates. Hundreds of disabled candidates have failed exams as victims due to reader-marking issues. Applications for improving disabled candidates' test conditions make the conditions of the disabled candidates even more difficult because of wrongful assignments and prevent a healthy measurement-valuement. The reader-signer personnel who will be assigned to disabled candidates: 1) Controlling the terminology of the field or majors that has been tested, 2) Being straight and quick to read, 3) You need to look for qualities such as not having sound health problems; such as having a clear, clear, and clear tone of voice. Dear lawmakers, a second issue is related to the status of students at the upper secondary school. Over the years, students at Anadolu University's Open School had the right to two exams, including finals and integration. The students of the upper secondary school first took final exams, followed by the students who failed the examination. The students of the public school had two rights to complete their exams, and the right to compete was eliminated by an order from the University of Anatolia. In this case, the University of Anatolia is either acting unaware of its SEC decisions or does not act in accordance with the student status of the students at this school. Most of the students at the public school are working on one side and studying on the other. These students are negative, underprivileged, underprivileged. The Anadolu University Senate has stolen the students' time, demoralised them, and has affected their psychology in a negative way by failing to give them the right to the integration examination that the YOK has recognised. This needs to be fixed as soon as possible, and these children need their rights restored. On the other hand, there's another human problem, the condition of the students needed during the exam. A student in need of a toilet can't go out on the exam. The first answer that comes to mind is that this child has to go to the bathroom, which is not possible in this exam system. The test is not allowed on the grounds of safety, and the student cannot leave the hall under the rules of the exam. The student is also not allowed to go to the bathroom with an attendant. Nearly 2 million high school students recently took university exams with a dream of college. However, a student of ours had this kind of trouble in Ankara, and he had to go out and he wasn't taken out, and he was provided with a pet bottle to satisfy his needs within the classroom. Now, this situation has to be reviewed, and it has to be resolved in some way by consideration of its human size. Yeah, there's corruption in the exams, there's leakage, there's a serious security problem, but besides all that, they don't stop ignoring human factors. There has to be a method and a way to satisfy their physiological needs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0165par0041	Thank you. Engin Altay, Congressman of Sinop, who wants to speak on his proposals of the same nature.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I've requested the minutes after tonight's events. I don't mean to warm things up, but the public needs to know some things. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ - Vice Prime Minister - says: "The municipality only makes the change in power in the chest in democracies." True, I sign the gold, it goes on: Other than that, with judgment, in the street, other than that, with a coup, hand in hand, with other methods. Half of this is a coup.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0167par0046	Why is it wrong?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0047	Just like this: The Turkish Language Foundation changed the definition of, which, by the direction of your government, must have been::, by putting pressure on a country, by force, or by using democratic means -- look -- to resign the government or to overthrow the government in a way that changes the regime. I mean, it's a clear sign that you're suffering from severe impact phobia, coup syndrome. And the president of the Turkish Language Foundation ran away from meeting with our MPs and ended up at the airport. Is that even possible? Now, dear friends, good things don't happen in Turkey. But what I see is that you've really got a syndrome. I mean, I thought it was weird before he said Fethullah Gulen said it was power poisoning, but from there, I think it was a little bit accurate. Look, lawmakers, we're all lawmakers, in the past...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0168par0050	The coven has calmed down, and you're making it tense.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0051	...Ismet Inönu, Demirel, Özal, Menderes, the late Menderes, the Parliament group would force them, and when such dictatorial ambitions were dominant, when those parties, the MPs of those leaders, used their authority from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, their party charters, would bring them to a bit of common sense. As a matter of fact, in the past, some ministers from the Democratic Party have been changed in this way. And the last to die, Menderes, you can also bring halaphet to this country if you want to. A compromise such as this has revealed that the group accepts the power of the group. But when I look at you, when I look at this Parliament, if we criticize the ministers -- and if I have time later, I'll criticize them -- there's no sound, but there's a reflex when we say the slightest thing about the Prime Minister. It's none of my business. Mr. Secretary, I wonder if you're really comfortable with what's happened today, after all this has calmed down today. Now, past us, past Parliament, past Turkey's public opinion, the whole world, Minister, is curious about the answers to two things. Who were the civilians and the people with the spikes and the police in Izmir? Was he a cop or a countererilla or a provocateur? When you went through this, you didn't explain it, the world wasn't busy with it. But, now, Mr. Secretary, you're under such a job that you can't get away with it. Now, on behalf of the great Turkish nation, Mr. Secretary, I ask you, who was this machete of people or people and the young woman who were spinning all over the world in Istanbul, who was it that struck the young woman with a machete and then kicked her in the face of the police?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0169par0055	He just told you, he got caught.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0056	Is it the police or the contrastilla or the provocateur? Mr. Minister, this cannot be avoided by saying, sir, that his debt has increased, and his debt has been carried out. Besides...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0170par0057	What do you want to happen, you answer it.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0171par0058	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is responding. Please, he already answered.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0059	Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, of course you hold meetings, demonstration walks according to Article 34.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0172par0060	What's the point?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0061	Question 1: 13 o'clock Tuesday in the front yard of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Where were you, Mr. Secretary, when 400 people were rallying at 00? And he had a rally in the Capitol garden, and these people, they had a pirate rally. In the garden of the assembly, you will overlook those who cry out, "Taiyipal Tayyip. Then you will spray pepper spray on the people who walk with carnations in their hands, and you will spray them with water.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0173par0063	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0174par0064	He's got carnations in his hand.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0065	Boo you!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0175par0066	There's no such thing! Let go of me!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0176par0067	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0068	We, Mr. Secretary, will not be able to accept that. For another minister sitting there a moment ago, the minister has lost his legitimacy.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0175par0069	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0177par0070	And you're going to be Deputy Director of the Group, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0071	However, after what happened in Turkey today, you members of the ruling party should really question the government's political authority, political will.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0177par0072	You had a rose in your hand? Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0178par0073	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0074	There is no coup when people are on the street in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0178par0076	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0077	In Turkey, you will say "democracy" as well as fear of a coup when three people meet. This is unacceptable.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0179par0078	Shame on you! There's a rose; where's the Molotov, where's the stones, where's the guns?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0079	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0180par0081	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0181par0082	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has made a critical, provocative speech of the EC PARTY Group, both to the ministers and to the Prime Minister, beyond criticism, and I'd like to answer that question.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0166par0083	What did I say?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0180par0084	Criticism or bullying? [[EK PARTY'S STUDENTS]] One moment, members of lawmakers, please... he'll explain himself, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0087	He's had a turn-on. He's been picking on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0183par0088	Mr. President, if we're not going to criticize power, let's get out of here, so what are we doing here?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0089	He cited examples of past political parties, not during the AK PARTY period, but as a dictatorship.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0184par0090	Here you go, Mr. Elitaş. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0094	My fellow lawmakers, there was an unpleasant incident here half an hour ago. I didn't see that incident because I wasn't in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ is sitting in the commissions, and he's not answering a question in his 1st minute of the question-answer, because he hasn't answered the question he's asked. Wow, you're not answering my question. We've lived a couple of times, but we haven't lived this extraordinary -- he's gone into the unconsciousness of attacking the Deputy Prime Minister. I don't know what Congress has done. If we leave this unconsciousness unrequited, the blackouts follow one another.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0185par0095	You're used to punishment. Send us one by one from the House.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0096	Look, Mr. Altay, your president, the late Inönu, was the President of the United States until 1971 -- if I don't remember correctly -- cannot be changed, not even offered to be changed.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0186par0097	What does it have to do with the Inönu?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0187par0098	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0099	Who's gonna warn him? Warn me how? But I'm telling you, we have a MYK meeting once a week, we have a MKYK meeting once a month, we have a Council of Ministers meeting every week. Our MYK meetings take five or six hours. Are we telling each other jokes here? That's what you think because you don't have these meetings in your tradition.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0188par0101	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0102	...because of your will and not their right to speak to the MPs...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0188par0103	What's that got to do with anything? Here, they're all talking, you're doing it.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0189par0104	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0105	Look, Precious Altay, while you're trying to criticize us here, you're actually trying to bring out your own problems, feelings, your own problems, the issues that are under your conscience, into ours. Look, Mr. Altay, you have no right to stress the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0189par0107	You have no right to make Turkey nervous.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0108	He didn't dare condemn an attack on a Deputy Prime Minister in a recent incident...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0190par0110	Yes, thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0182par0111	And frankly, as Deputy Director of the Group, you've always said that you've tolerated the attack on the bench, on the commissions. And I'm saying I don't appreciate it.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0190par0113	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0114	Mr. President, in order for my position to proceed to the reports...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0190par0115	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0116	First of all, we've never tolerated the attitude of our friend walking here, it's unacceptable, it's not true. We said that inside, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0192par0117	What did you do, stop him?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0118	We said it's not true. We're responding, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0193par0119	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0120	I mean, there's no such thing. But we're not here to reduce the dosage of our opposition just because something happened that shouldn't have been here.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0194par0122	Lower the dosage. We don't say "a," but we say "don't miss the measure."
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0195par0123	Just tell the truth.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0124	What did I just do?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0194par0125	Don't miss the measure. We call it.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0126	What did I say? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0194par0127	You machete...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0191par0128	Oh, brother, don't you have a machete or a machete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0196par0134	Yes, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 53 (d) there are two motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and the first of Articles of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778), and I propose that the first of Articles of Articles (d) be changed in some Laws and Codes of Law and Laws shall be changed in the following manner, and shall be proposed by Bayınity, Imar, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission of Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal "d" added the phrase "a cheater or cheater in any way" before the "accession of the third joke (c) of Article 10 (c) "accessible to make a copy." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of Article 53-d of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with a draft draft draft draft of the Law and Laws Act. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt İzzet Çetin Haluk Ahmet Ilhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0197par0155	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0196par0156	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0198par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0196par0158	Speaking on the motion, Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0199par0159	Mr. President, good lawmakers, we have no intention of provoking anyone, provoking anyone, upsetting anyone while we conduct these negotiations tonight. However, because we have no intention of doing so, we can't forget the task that people have given us. It's people's job to criticize and supervise what you do. Dear friends, today's view in Turkey is much more severe than you might have imagined. With each passing day, the politics that you've practiced so far since the beginning of the division's resistance have become increasingly painful to the hearts, the hearts, and the conscience of the nation. The name of this wound is the loss of the state's neutrality and the sense of justice. Dear friends, if the matter of the collapse of the sense of justice becomes an institution of consciences, then we will be unable to govern the state. Look, not long ago, during the days of the Taxi Travel Resistance, they called us from İzmir, saying that there were people behind and in front of the police with a bunch of sticks, people with sticks beating up our citizens. I called the Minister that night -- thank him here, he answered me immediately -- I told him about it, I told him about it. As a matter of fact, the next day, we discussed it with the governor. Of course, Mr. Secretary, if they'll allow it... anyway, we call out to the public ourselves, not to listen to anyone who asks. As a result, there was also an attack on two of the AKP's organisations and on the newspaper New Asyr. Now, I had called at the time, and again, today I am calling from here: their perpetrators must be found immediately to satisfy the public conscience, and this must be declared to Turkey. Otherwise, I'm going to claim that these provocateurs are protected, dear friends. Now, dear friends, a party called Justice has unfortunately made injustice a habit. If you keep saying what the opposition is saying here, it's a constant provocation. Or if you try to adjust the level of style, then you'll be dividing the voice of the opposition.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0200par0164	Who burned down the AK PARTY building?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0199par0165	It's not your power that makes you legitimate here, but the opposition that makes you legitimate here, that we are the means of your legitimacy. Look, no one can say that this Parliament is illegitimate, especially in this Parliament, but I'm saying that this Parliament has been disabled, it's lost its function. There's no such thing as Parliamentary work. You're going to bring 100 or so articles, many of which are going to be everything from tourism to health, then the Turkish nation won't be aware of all these discussions, we're going to talk to ourselves, we're going to make decisions, you're going to work until the morning to not fit human health, and then you're going to accept that Parliament is functional. Dear friends, you've hit a wall on everything. You've made this country a state of surveillance and control. So, who do the states look out for? Governments only watch and control their enemies. Now, if a state is listening to its own citizen, if a state is watching and watching its own citizen, then this state is essentially not a servant of its own nation. If a state is not a servant of its own nation, then there is a crisis of state and regime; that is what is happening in Turkey today. Turkey has a state and regime crisis today. Dear friends, now -- Mr. President has now obviously read -- you've just put a clause in the Turkish Language Foundation, which is a preparation, a warning, or by using democratic means to get the government to resign, has entered the coup recipe, so right now I've committed some sort of coup crime while I democratically criticised this government and asked it to fall. You know what this is? It's just a pre-preparation to blame everyone who's come out of fear. This must be dealt with immediately. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then in Turkey, you'll be able to divide the voice of opposition. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0201par0174	Let's hit it right away.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0199par0176	You're doing it.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0202par0177	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0203par0181	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0202par0182	We've got a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Silver, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tüçük, Mr. Özgüş, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Demirçlı, Mr. Pine, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Akar. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478, and the first of Articles of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778), and I propose that the first of Articles of Articles (d) be changed in some Laws and Codes of Law and Laws shall be changed in the following manner, and shall be proposed by Bayınity, Imar, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission of Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "d" added the phrase "a cheater or cheater in any way" before the "accession of the third joke (c) of Article 10 (c) "accessible to make a copy." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0204par0199	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0202par0200	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0205par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0202par0202	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0206par0204	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 53 (d) of Law Bill 478. Again, I salute the High Council. This is also a substance that contains some changes within the field of duty. Article 10 of Law 6114 in question is a provision of penal provisions. So it predicts what kind of punishments will be imposed during the SNSI exams that will allow copying in any way. In particular, the examinations conducted by the presidency (c) include the sentence of one year to four years in prison for those who allow copying. Now, in this change, the amendment in the bill, along with those who can be copied, the punishment for copying individually or collectively. It's a proper arrangement. Our motion is not only to add to the individual or collective cheaters, but also to punish those who cheat under any circumstances. Appreciation is of the High Council. There's no big difference between the two, but I think there's a significant difference in meaning. In addition to individual or collective copies, I think our motion is more meaningful to include those who cheat for other reasons. Dear lawmakers, the 53rd article has brought to the attention today some of the changes needed after a two-year period passed in a law passed by this great Assembly just two years ago. I've just said in my previous speeches that there are four other people from the Ministry of National Education who are currently the most important task of the OSYM, who are members of the board of directors -- including the board, presidents and vice presidents -- I want to share with you: one representative at the level of director of the Ministry of Education, one representative from the Board of Higher Education, one representative from the Executive Board, at least one vice president, and one of the members of the board of state universities -- who are elected by the board of directors, including the presidents and vice presidents of the board of the board of directors -- we have the authority to prepare the questions of a board of the board of directors, and the board of directors. The phone calls were made, and the president was told that he had taken it upon himself. Dear lawmakers, in this law, the President does not have the authority to appoint officials and commissions to prepare the examination questions for this purpose. If the President says that he has taken over the law, it's his own business, but I believe a change will be brought to this great House in a very short time, just for that purpose. Now, I believe that the Supreme Assembly will not approve of a change that will present the commission and its officers who will prepare the exam questions. At least I think this bag will be an opportunity to reassess until the end of the law talks, but I would like to say again that for the past few years, the suspects that have appeared in a number of tests, including the LYS, KPSS, have undermined the institution's credibility in public. It would be unfair to burden the president with such a change. Perhaps, Mr. President, the head of the CSI himself has thought of taking on such a good mission, but that good faith does not solve the burden of himself or the community. He could face a lot more serious accusations tomorrow. In fact, I don't think the President is far from the subject of suspicion right now, parentheses, in the eyes of the community. When the judgment... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he finds these criminals, he exposes them, it turns out the President had nothing to do with it, and then he clears himself. Now it's in his discretion that he's stripped of such responsibility again, but once again, he emphasizes that the High Assembly will not allow it, and I expect your support in our motion.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0207par0211	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Laws Act and the following amendment of Article 54 of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778), and the proposal of the Charter of Budget Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Mehmet Erdoğan Article 54-14/6/2012 and Article 28 of the Law on Public Controllership 6328 have been changed as follows. The 28-Madde can be tasked with public administrations, social security institutions, local administrations, joint administrations, municipal management units, return capital institutions, funds established by law, legal institutions, more than 50 per cent of its public property, public enterprises, public economic initiatives, and employees and prosecutors can be assigned to the institution on record. The number of people assigned in this way cannot exceed 20 per cent of the number of public auditory specialists, and the deadline for this kind of deployment will not exceed two years. However, in the case of need, this period can be extended in one year's time. The institution's demands on this matter are met within ten workdays by relevant institutions and organisations. The staff assigned like this is now on monthly leave from their institutions. As long as these personnel are on leave, they are concerned with their civil service and their rights, as well as their raises and pensions, and they are expected to increase without further processing. Their time in the institution was spent in their own institutions. I'm reading another motion of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 478 S. In the first sentence of Article No. 54 of the Numbered Law Proposal and Article No. 6328 under the first sentence of the 28th Amendment, the judge and prosecutors shall be granted their services, and the judges and prosecutors shall be charged with changing the terms of the declaration of the letter of the Law to be replaced in the form of the fourth sentence, according to the registration of its guardians. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ahmet Aydın Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Altay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the adoption of Article 54 of the Charter and Plan and Budget Commission reports in accordance with the Law Proposal and State Officers' Law, which shall be held in accordance with the Law and Law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt İlhan Demirözük Haluk Ahmet Silver İzzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0208par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0207par0238	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0209par0239	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0210par0240	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0207par0241	I'm reading the reason: In the Turkish Language Association Dictionary, the bag is "a vehicle usually touched by cotton and hair, in a manner of size and shape, that can be tightened and gagged": 2. It is often described as a plastic or paper-made carryer, which can be of various sizes, which is used to put the stuff in it." The word "truck" added at the head of the "law" is a very accurate adjective that points to the mystery because its "transportation function" is not always predictable and will be placed in it at the same time. When it comes to the law, it's the Civil Code. In its context, it is virtually impossible to speak of the spirit of the blood. The bag is subject to various surprises in terms of law and enforcement. For example, there are some items of bag law, motive traffic, that are either too complicated or without a motive. For this reason, the law on concrete legal dilemmas is often unable to work. In general, there are two types of lawmaking: one normal, the other accelerated. The normal procedure, based on matter-based discussion and voting, is technically "the usual way of life." The accelerated path is called the "special way of life." Our response to the method of special legislation has been a bit of a coercion of "principal law." The method of rapid law enforcement into Turkish parliamentary law in 1991 is the 91st method of the TBMM Charter. In a term inspired by the title of its article, it is established as "the basic law." However, this use is mixed with the term "subject law" used for the first time in the field of legal reform, when referring to the main laws such as the Law of Civil Law, "The Law of Loans," "Turkish Penal Code." The basic method of law in practice refers to the compression of a file in computer terms, since it means that the law bill or proposal should be compressed into sections of non-30ths in the General Assembly talks. The CDM subcommittee is 91. In the matter, there is already a similar "bossing" of the definition of the fundamental law. After the amendments were made by the Constitutional Court, which had been cancelled several times, the waters were largely settled. Whatever the cost, the adoption of a bag of laws to speed up the process of legislation brings with it serious difficulties. The bag law presents problems not only in terms of the legislative process, but also in the process of implementing the bill or proposal after the law has been passed. The way to make a bag of laws requires that opposition and NGOs are effectively unable to participate in law-making processes. Besides, even lawmakers from the ruling party are troubled by content control over the effects of the bag of laws that can cover all topics. In practice, even though such a requirement does not exist, the bag is fueled by changing laws or laws that soon change in order to correct the mistakes of legislation due to the rapid legalisation of the fundamental law. In short, the bag of laws in our country are also a triggering factor in the need for new changes in the changing law. Due to these reasons, the amount taken under the bag law must be evaluated under the basic law, so it must be removed from the bill. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm reading other proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 478 S. In the first sentence of Article No. 54 of the Numbered Law Proposal, Article 6328 and Article 28 of the 28th Amendment, we propose and propose that the "judges and prosecutors" declaration "be replaced" and "in accordance with the registration of their patrons." Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0211par0256	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0207par0257	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0212par0258	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0207par0259	I'm reading the reason: In addition to judges and prosecutors, the agency aims to search for its supporters. Do you want me to read your alibi or do you want to talk, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0213par0263	No, let me do the talking, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0207par0264	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0213par0265	Dear friends, dear President, first of all, I salute your grand delegation this late at night. I wish you all the best. We're very angry, we're very angry, but we're going to work together, there's no other way we can work together, that's why we're here. So let's argue with all the mistakes that have been made, but let's still show the will to work together. If it's wrong, it's wrong... let's try to do the right thing. Dear friends, a amendment is being made to Article 28 of the Constitutional Court of Public Control. What I object to is that you can make changes, needs, changes are made, but if I don't remember this Government of Public Control Act correctly -- which has a date here -- we did it here a year ago, we did it together, we did it together, and we did it at such a tight time, we did it with serious arguments. Now, we've put in six months, we're going to take it up to two years; we've given it three months to extend, so we're going to extend it to a year. Then we've ruled the conclusion as soon as possible, and now we're making it a command to conclude in ten days. So many institutions are considered officers, and this time we add judges and prosecutors. What I'm trying to say from here is, dear friends. You know, there's a saying in traffic, you can go fast, and if you don't get caught, you don't pay a fine, but if you hurry, if you hurry, God forbid, you'll crash, you'll die. Now, look, dear friends, we show so much carelessness, so much imprudence in almost everything, that opposition parties at every time condemn the ruling group. That's not true, you've got a huge group, you've got the government, you've got the bureaucracy. There are enormous institutions, experience, savings of laws within the Prime Minister's office, as well as within the Parliamentary presidency, and why is this apocalypse, why is this mistake, it's impossible to understand that. Of course, that's the kind of nerve tension that comes from, I'm afraid, dear friends. Look, we just said that you were wrong about something, with all the screaming. Özcan Yeniçeri spoke twice, Alim I talked twice, I spoke to the group's deputy president, I spoke to the commissioner, I got up, I talked to the head of the OSYM, we can't move a mile. You know what you did, dear friends? The Governing Body of the OSCE had previously determined the appointment of university auditions and placement exams, the appointment of officials to perform these exams, the setting of commissions. I also read about this board of directors here in the law, so there are presidents and officials of all the institutions of our state. Now you're taking that authority out of the law, so you're taking it from the board of directors, giving it to the president's pledge. I mean, why is this happening? I asked Ali Bey, Ali Hoxha, why are you doing this to him? I mean, why are you taking all the authority instead of handing over to the boards because of such a questionable, questionable, accused procedure? His answer to me, in good faith, of course, says: "Burocracy is increasing, sir." So now, let's get rid of the government and all that. So someone's got something going on in their head, not the laws that make these proposals -- not the Laws here -- not the Decisions here, not the Commission, not the Government, not the group, not the right people, not the wrong people. Now, what you've made up with your votes is that every year, 1.5 million or 2 million of our children were taken from the board of directors, transferred to the president, to the board of directors, who were refereeing all the settlements. I believe you'll come back here in three days, we've done it wrong, let's correct it. You'll say, "Sir." What do we do? I mean, let's not get mad, let's not get angry, but it's a glass that carries these mistakes all the time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, I have been promised this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0214par0275	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion for a new substance violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill and proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has only attended. According to Article 91 of the Civil Charter, the meeting of a new clause will be held on the motions the commission has mostly participated in, and the number of motions laid out in this article can be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission agrees to the motion with the majority, I will open the debate on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 478 rows (a) of 54 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws. We propose that the following item be added and the following item be identified accordingly, supply and supply. Fair Zozani Secret Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel MADDE: History of 20/6/2012 and Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law on Business Health and Safety of 6331 (f) have been changed in the following way: Occupational Security Expert: Ministry authorized to serve in the field of occupational health and safety, with a certificate of occupational safety, engineering, architecture, or engineering-married faculty graduates or technical staff Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0215par0291	We don't have a majority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0214par0292	Yes, I'm dropping the motion. There are two motions on Article 55, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 478 rows, is 55. In this article, we would like to change the expression "rights of two exams" into "rights of three." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu chooses Vahab Engin Özkoç Süleyman Çelebi Bült Kuşoğlu Haluk Ahmet Silver Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the 478-tributed Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; in accordance with the Law and Law Law Act, we propose the amendment of the 55th Amendment of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) in the following manner, and we propose that Articles of the Plan and Budget Commissions (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Erdoğan Mehmet Günal "MEDDE 55-20/6/2012 and Article 4 of Article 6331 of Business Health and Safety Law added the following joke. The ministry is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for those who have a certificate of occupational safety and the rights of two examinations, as long as the joke is used within a year, so that they can receive a certificate of occupational safety in upper classes, such as the number of days paid to the Social Security Foundation, and such as the number of documents they have received." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0216par0309	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0214par0310	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0217par0311	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0218par0312	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-06sit06spe0214par0313	I'm reading the reason: The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people working in public institutions, contractors under Law 4924 and contractors working in local administrations are appointed to officers on the condition that those following the parliamentary Koran course teachers follow. However, there are no 4/Cs among the contracted staff and MPs who have the deepest victimization. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. The citizen's right to block the freedom of right to search for rights and to intervene in the judiciary has the right to information on questions and answers related to the PSYM exams. Companies whose public share is directly or indirectly less than 50 per cent have been excluded from the Court's control. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 101 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
