tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we're going to talk. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsored statement belongs to the Konya MP Ayşe Türkmenoglu, who asked for a comment on investments made in Konya.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise on investments in our province of Iconia during our reign. I hereby salute the grand jury. First of all, today is January 24, 2013, the anniversary of the assassinations of late journalist Ugur Mumcu, and Gaffar Okkan. I ask God's mercy to both of them, and I ask patience for their families. Our citizens are well aware of the dark times Turkey has been going through and what obstacles the EC PARTY's attempts to shed light on these dark times over the past ten years. Hopefully, we'll find these dark spots together. Turkey will be transparent, able to deal with its past and hope for its future. I, in particular, would like to say a few words about yesterday's session. Every citizen in Turkey is an equal citizen, regardless of race, language, religion. Our belief is that the upper hand in the sight of God is in piety, so everyone is equal. I, here on the stand yesterday, condemn those words on the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the curse, hatred, and violence of racism. I hope God doesn't trouble these people in our country, so don't let God leave us in their hands. Its enormous investments, such as its agricultural potential, its industrial infrastructure, its geographical location as a crossroads, the land road, airway and railway connections, its proximity to ports, its growing labor force, its historical and cultural wealth, are continuing to increase its appeal to investment for reasons such as the low risk of earthquakes. With the production of agriculture and industry, it has an important place in the country's economy. Assina, you know, one of our largest cities in Turkey with facial measurements, and our population is 2 million and so on. We are now in the 20th place in terms of socioeconomic development. There are nine organised industrial sites and 38 small industrial sites in our districts and central counties, with a total of 2,803 hectares. There are 596 factories active in organised industrial areas. Also, there are 6,800 businesses on small industrial sites. In addition, 460 businesses are also operating at the special Büsan collective workplace, located in the city centre over 120 hectares. Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement of some of the investments that have stood out in our province. Our province is farmed at 55 per cent of its total land estate, and 45 per cent of its non-foreign land. The field also produces barley, wheat, and sugar beets. As of 2012, we have 734 agricultural cooperatives. The province also operates in 38 agricultural producers and in 3 cases, in accordance with Law 4632. Mr. President, there are 16 projects in the various stages of KOP in the provinces of Konya, Niğde, Aksaray and Karaman. A total of 860,000 hectares will be watered by projects covered by KOP. By 2020, the work on KOP will be complete, and the cone will provide a large portion of its agricultural irrigation needs for drinking and using water. The new two-line electric-signed railway, built at 250 km/h between Konya-Ankara, is a total length of 306 km. Right now, there will be another series of speed trains between Iconia and Eskişehir. We're starting the countdown now, any infrastructure is complete, and soon the flights will begin. The divided length of the road planned to be built in the province of Iconia was 990 kilometers, which completed 868 kilometers in 2011 and 2012 and opened to traffic. Also, separate roadworks, such as Conium-Afyonkarahisar, Iconia-Ereğli, continue. Mr. President, you'll appreciate, of course, the last decade of the most important investments in the history of the republic is impossible. I'd like to thank all of our ministers, especially our Prime Minister. I thank you, all of you, for being such a beautiful, lively city, and thanking the mayors who worked so hard.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked for the 20th anniversary of the murder of investigative journalist Uğur Mumcu.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today (January 24th, 2013). Twenty years ago, on January 24, 1993, the investigative journalist writer, the Democrat, revolutionary, patriot Uğur Mumcu, who fought on the path to full independent and democratic Turkey, was brutally murdered. Again, today is not a good day -- Diyarbakır Police Commissioner Gaffar Okkan was brutally murdered along with five police officers. Today, January 24th, political man Uğur Mumcu and Aydın Güven Gürkan died. I bow before their memories with respect. I ask for God's mercy on all of them. January 24th is a bad day in another way. You know, it's a day when decisions made on January 24, 1980 and the economic basis for the coup on September 12, 1980. It's the day that the late Turgut Özal. The prescription for the IMF came into effect. My dear friends, really, Uður Mumcu, was actually a symbol of democracy and freedom. He was brutally murdered, but couldn't be illuminated who killed him, why he slaughtered him, how he slaughtered him. Like the massacre of many leaders of the community such as Kemal Turks, Abdi İpekçi, Muammar Aksoy, Bahriye Threeok, Gün Sazak, the murder of Uğur Mumcu was an unsolved murder. Friends, the Constitutional State of the Republic of Turkey has a legal state. No murder in the state of the law is unsolved, in fact there are unsolved murders. That means the government has a hand in these murders. If the government can't shed light on these unsolved political murders, it's got a hand. Until now, actual resistance to the revelation of Ugur Mumcu's murder has been voiced in Parliament by the President of the Research Commission for Ugur Mumcu's Murder, and we really, as the Turkish Republic of Turkey in 2013, are leaving behind an unsolved Turkey. We cannot answer Uður Mumcu's children's question as to why and how his father was killed. In fact, the government needs to answer these questions. Uður Mumcu actually fought for democracy and freedom to live as a way of life in every aspect of life. He put a lot of emphasis on the concepts of justice, the law, and the democracy. See, the idea of justice is that justice is one of the basic pillars that sustains a society. Once this feeling is wounded, the foundations of democracy are shaken. When justice is distributed through independent courts, it strengthens the sense of justice. So he saw today 20 years ago. In another article on justice, there is the concept of justice before law. Justice is the name of an ideal situation, the name of longing. Law is just one way to get justice. You can also create injustice by using law. The text that comes out of Parliament is law, but it's definitely not justice. His judge and his lawyer and all the lawyers were taken prisoner by Hitler's regime. Law professors were parrots and judges were toys in Hitler's hands. Is it possible to call the judges who served Hitler a lawyer today? These are the hit men for political murders. To stand on a high bench with a robe will never give the executioner legitimacy. My dear friends, you see how much Uður Mumcu cared about justice and the concepts of law, twenty-five years ago, 25 years ago, he determined the necessity of justice and law, and he pointed out today. Dear lawmakers, it is the duty of the state of law to bring light to the political killings that have been left unsolved and to whom we once again humbled before his memory, and I think we owe a debt to the relatives of those people against their children. I ask God's mercy to all who have lost their lives in the political murders of Uður Mumcu and others left unsolved, and I bow before his memory.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you. We, the Court of Presidents, ask for God's mercy to Ugur Mumcu, his loved ones, his beloved children, and especially the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Güldal Mumcu. The third statement outside the agenda is from Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about the problems of victims and military students.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise from the Turkish Armed Forces regarding those who have been cut off through the approval of the minister and decrees and continue to be victimized. I hereby salute you all. As it is known, Article No. 6191 was added to Article 926 of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law on March 22, 2011. According to this clause, since 1971, those who were cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces with closed administrative procedures or Supreme Military Sûra decisions have been granted the right to self-restraint. These provisions were not made available to victims and military students who were cut off as a result of open judicial procedures. This is in violation of Article 14 of Article 10 of the Constitution, which prohibits discrimination in the European Convention on Human Rights. Such discrimination is unacceptable between the same laws and the same reasons, but between different administrative procedures and those who have been cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces. Departure from Turkish Armed Forces is carried out under Article 94/b for the officers of Law 926. The article on the matter is exactly this: ▪ The officer who is deemed unfit to remain in the Armed Forces due to lack of discipline or moral status is entitled to the rights of the petty officers regardless of their time of service, T.C. The terms of the Retirement Chest Law are carried out. The officer will be shown by whom and how these proceedings will be conducted in the officer's record regulations. Such officers are being examined by the High Military Branch of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff to separate what is required by the General Staff from the Armed Forces. The decision is carried out by the Supreme Military Branch. The Chief of Staff decides which administrative decisions will be cut off from the personnel who will be subject to the separation process. This situation has no savings as to which administrative decisions the staff will be cut off from. Dear lawmakers, those who are cut off from their AGE decisions have no right to go to trial. Therefore, Parliament granted them the right by accepting Article 32 of Law 6191. Theoretically, military personnel who have been cut off from the Minister's approval and decrees have the opportunity to appeal to the judiciary. They may seek their rights at the Military Supreme Court. This is a judgment involving members of the ruling class. The European Court of Human Rights ignores the decisions of this judiciary. This is a judgment conducted by the Chief of Staff that has not been guaranteed a judicial guarantee. This judgment has ruled that his punishments will be a matter of judgment. The Military Supreme Court is not neutral. Therefore, the referendum held in 2010 opened a judicial path against any interconnection, except for the inadequacy and the lack of employment of the Supreme Military District. Thus, despite the opening of the age decisions, the legal path of those who were cut off from the decisions of AGE was not opened, but was granted the rights of identity by the interim Article 6191 of Law. What should happen is that everyone with such victims should benefit from this practice, but both the government and the National Ministry of Defence do not make life arrangements for the future of people through objective basis, allowing the other to be victimized while removing part of the victims. Dear lawmakers, it is a positive development in the framework of the Disciplinary Law of Turkish Armed Forces, which will be discussed in the coming days, to lift the punishments for room and probation, to open the path of justice to disciplinary sentences. It is not right that the authority to separate TSK from it should be removed from the High Military Office and from the approval of its relevant ministry and left to the discretion of the High Disciplinary Board in lower levels. The Constitutional amendment, adopted by a public vote on September 12, 2010, was adopted by law, based on the establishment of the Supreme Administration Court, its functioning, judicial procedures, its members' disciplinary and autonomy work, the independence of the courts and the assurance of sovereignty. However, the law of harmony mentioned has not yet passed through the Parliament. It is also not right to be seen as the way of a court of justice, which has not been guaranteed independence and the assurance of judgment. Taking the sentence out of the Turkish Armed Forces with vital consequences will prevent arbitrary practices. Today, victims of people who are still exposed to arbitrary practices, who have been removed from the profession for simple disciplinary crimes. It's said that each time the blows will heal. So, he says that this sacrifice, which has been removed from the army, which has hidden even from its immediate presence, has to be resolved immediately, which is the result of suicide, the dissolution of family relations, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0008par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party, honor Mr. Ugur Mumcu, who died on January 24th as a result of foul attacks, and Mr. Gaffar Okan. I ask God's mercy again. On this occasion, 42 people were killed yesterday in Iraq, in Tuzhurmatu, in the attack against the Turkmen during the funeral. In the attack, the Iraqi Turkmen Front Vice President and former President Sadittin Erter were injured. I condemn this vile attack, and ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives, and for the immediate healing for the wounded. I'd like to take this opportunity to share an issue with you while the government is here. A statement by the US Secretary of State in the Senate asked a question concerning the arrival of some weapons from Libya to Turkey, where they went to Syria. So I'd like to say that we expect the State Department to respond to the world's public as to whether or not such a matter exists immediately.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0010par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the BDP Group, ask God's mercy to both our people on the anniversary of the massacres of journalist-writer Mr. Ugur Mumcu, and Mr. Gaffar Okkan. Once again, my condolences and my patience to the Okkan and Mumcu families. Also, January 25, 2001, the anniversary of the loss of HADEP Silopi District Chairman Serdar, and District Manager Ebubekir Deniz. These two of our friends were taken into custody at the police station and were never heard from again. Since then, the disappearances and the investigation into the case have not reached a single conclusion. The unsolved murders should not be the fate of this geography, the bleeding wound of Turkey, 17,000 unsolved murders, the missing and unresolved executions. As the BDP Group, we thank you once again for the discovery of all the unsolveds, the trial of the perpetrators, and the discovery of casualties.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0011par0066	Thank you. Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0012par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we, the AK PARTI Group, we, the journalist who was murdered on January 24, 1993 by a dark murder plot, are attesting to the mercy of the writer Uğur Mumcu, and we are strongly condemning this incident as we do in all the killings that attempt to kill a human being. Likewise, on January 24th, again, the anniversary of the testimony of the fallen police chief, Gaffar Okkan, and five of our fellow police officers. The name of some 400 children born from the day he was a martyr was Gaffar Okkan, the greatest proof of that. I bless Gaffar Okkan and our other heroes who are martyrs, God rest their souls, and may their place be in heaven.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0013par0072	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0014par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we are experiencing the 20th anniversary of the death of the great journalist writer Ugur Mumcu. On such a bitter anniversary, I remember Uður Mumcu with mercy and gratitude. I'd like to say that his struggle for freedom and independence, which our nation has placed in our hands, continues in the same way. We live in a democratic country, but even though it's been 20 years, the murder of Uður Mumcu and the murder of Gaffar Okkan, which is now the anniversary of his death, I say it's a sad situation for our democracy. Again, today is the anniversary of the death of Turkish statesman Ismail Djem. We remember him with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0015par0079	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Again, we remember Uður Mumcu, Gaffar Okkan, and those who were sacrificed to all unknown murders, with mercy and respect. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0016par0084	Mr. President, let the MPs share their thoughts and feelings about Uğur Mumcu.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0015par0085	My attitude on that is clear, and the Civil Code is clear.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0016par0086	One day a year, Mr. President, January 24th. One day a year we remember Uður Mumcu.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0015par0087	Here you go. 23.01.2013 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Oman Shura Parliament Speaker Sheikh Khalid bin Crescent bin Naseer Al Mawali, along with a delegation of the Shura Assembly, was eligible for a visit to our country, with the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Court of President 23/01/2013 and its 39th resolution. The visit of the delegation to our country will be presented to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are still very serious uncertainties and questions about the brain disease caused by measles, known in public as "Subakut Sklerozan Panensefalitis (SSPE) in medicine. The lack of a certain medical treatment of the SSPE disease, the fact that the important part of the infected had appeared from the early 1990s to the early 2000s, especially after the measles vaccines in the Southeast and Eastern provinces, the allegations that the "subjected measles vaccine to the Southeast" was reflected in the public at the time, and so far there has been no serious legal process of these allegations. In this context, I would like to request and request a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter in order to study and investigate issues such as how the disease continues to pursue and treat people who are infected, and why the disease is particularly widespread in the provinces in the East and Southeast, and why the public is not yet fully aware of the conditions associated with the disease. [[Hakkari]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Pain]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The SSPE (Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) disease is a central nervous system disease caused by measles infection (brain infection) in general. The virus that has been implanted in the brain of a person who has measles has been activated in ten years, causing massive brain damage. It is known that there is no clear cure for the disease, but that its course has been slowed down. According to the SSPE Association, there are pathological changes in the brain along with the disease, which can lead to spasticism, then coma, and then death within six to twelve months. To date, the Ministry of Health has unfortunately not had a clear explanation and examination of the SSPE disease, which will relieve public opinion and satisfy questions about the past. In response to the question motions, the ministry claimed that the SSPE disease was not a complication of measles, but a complication of measles, that the real problem with disease in the past -- especially in the Southeast and Eastern provinces -- was that it was not related to corrupt vaccines, but that it was not at the desired level in the past. However, while describing the disease, the SSPE Association stated that the disease developed as a result of an inappropriate response to a reaction to the measles virus or measles virus. This shows that the disease may also be the result of old or false vaccines, so it can support claims about vaccines sent to Southeast and Eastern provinces in the past years. On the other hand, reports that in the past years, the disease could be cured in Japan have been publicised, and the ministry has said that this news has yet to reflect the truth. This disease, which is said to have been slowed down only by drugs that delay the spread of the virus, is also a curious matter of whether or not it is still this way in light of medical developments around the world, whether it is being followed up to date by the Ministry of Health. Another important issue, the Ministry of Health, is that in the cities where the disease is common, the units related to the disease have been established, the following have been made, but the patients are not kept under constant observation and are not monitored, that the financial and spiritual support of children who are suffering from illness is not as indicated to their families as it is to their families, and the course of disease has not been shown. On the contrary, doctors say to their sick parents, "There's no way, there's no way he's gonna die. Why are you bringing him to the hospital? Why are you bringing it to us? We're already looking at 90 patients a day." the parents of children who have suffered from illness. Besides, the Ministry of Health for Health, particularly in the Southeast and Eastern provinces of the SSPE disease, "is the result of an inadequate vaccine in the past." Even if we take his argument as a single fact, it is also important to question whether or not there was an investigation into the authorities that caused the disease, or whether there was a criminal sanction done to these people. Because in the first place, the allegations of Osman Durmuk, who was then Minister of Health, were not subject to investigation, and many of the deaths resulted in hundreds of children and children who were desperate to die, despite the families who saw their children melt in front of them day after day after day, the blame of those responsible is simply unconscionable. In light of all this information, it is of great importance to open a parliamentary study of the past questions about the SSPE disease and the follow-up of the world's developments in the treatment of patients and disease in order to address problems that are still unresolved today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Southeast Asia and the Chinese industrial products that surround the domestic market throughout our province and across our country have brought our local industry to a halt. In order to determine the measures that need to be investigated, we respectfully request and demand that the investigation be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Administration. 17/01/2012 [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Kütahya]] [[Scholarship]] 5) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yozgat]] [[Slap]] [[Samsun]] [[Mughle]] 12) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] The biggest problem of domestic industry in recent years is Southeast Asia, and especially China industrial products that surround the domestic market. If the measure is not taken and the consumer is not conscious, soon our local industry will be in danger of extinction in some sectors. Our province has been affected for these reasons, and our industrial sites have served as warehouses for Southeast Asia and especially Chinese goods. According to TİİK reports on Southeast Asia and especially Chinese goods in November 2010-2011 and in total yearly: November 2010, $1 billion 420 million; November 2011, 1 billion 611 million. January 2010, November 2010, $15 billion, $334 million; January 2011, November, 19 billion, $918 million. As you can see from these numbers, our external purchase continues to increase year after year. Some of them are legally available abroad, while some of them are illegally smuggled into the home, and Southeast Asia and China industrial products are sold equally cheaply, according to local precedents. In countries where these products are produced, production is also cheap because industry is supported by the state, and labour and energy prices are too low for my country. In our local industry, it's the opposite. Both lack of state support and because of the high cost of investment, labour and energy, the same products are being made to cost more and are forced to market more than that country's products. Since our consumer's buying power is low, it is preferable to our local industrial products, which are extremely inferior, but according to domestic productions, are cheap. This is not for the good of the country. Many factories and businesses have been closed down and thousands of new ones have been added to the unemployed army because they have had difficulty competing over the extreme difference between these cheap but cheap products and costs. In fact, some of our industrialists, because of their investment problems and their cost difference, have begun to produce fasculism in these countries, which is extremely bad for our province and for our country. For reasons offered throughout our country, and especially for our local industry in the province of Kopeeli, it is incumbent on our Supreme Assembly to determine the measures that must be taken for both Southeast Asia and China to prevent industrial products from entering our country illegally and to determine whether the state has fully fulfilled its duties in the awareness of consumers and the cost of our local industrialists in investment and production and other problems that need to be taken care of. We demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104, 105, and Article 105, the 98, and the Civil Code of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of investigating the problems of adequate and balanced diet for children in primary school, we respectfully request and demand that Parliament's research be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the 98th and TBM Institution of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that must be taken. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] 11) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Yozgat]] [[Elizipt]] [[Eskişehir]] 16) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Slap]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] 24) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] Children in our country's 7-14-year-old age group spend most of their time and age in the school environment. Children and young people of this age have a great deal of difficulty with nutrition. The development of children in this group is much higher than adults because they are biologically constantly changing. Evaluations made by experts suggest that it is very important for children to feed in these times. Elementary years are the beginnings of a rapid growth. Growth and development in children continue throughout elementary school. The families of elementary school children and school administration must be informed about the balanced diet of school-age children. In primary school, adequate and balanced nutrition also concerns children's education. Healthy growth and development are also important for the successful life of education through adequate and balanced nutrition. Feeding should not mean suppressing hunger, feeding, or eating what you desire. Feeding is a conscious need to receive the nutrients needed for maintaining health and improving the quality of life in sufficient and appropriate times. Health care and disease prevention are essential to adequate and balanced nutrition. Our children and our young ones, who are the guarantee of our future, will look to the future in a healthier way through balanced and adequate nutrition. In elementary school, when nutrients are not taken enough, an inadequate diet occurs. Children who are malnourished and malnourished are vulnerable to germs and are easily infected. Children and young people in this situation also suffer from severe illness. The adequate and balanced diet of elementary school children is vital for the development of healthy generations. A state policy must be developed and put into practice. Therefore, a parliamentary research commission will be established under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to investigate the problems of children in elementary school on adequate and balanced diet, to determine the measures that need to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. 24.01.2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 24/01/2013 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 22/01/2013 by Bolu MP Tanju Özcan and 22 MPs, the Parliamentary Research Motion (667 rows) was issued to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 22/01/2013 for the purpose of enlightening the unsolved murders and forces behind our country. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Thursday 24/01/2013, and to be held in the same dated joint meeting of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Tanju Özcan, Bolu MP.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0017par0285	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. All right, fellas, it's January 24th. In view of the history of the Republic of Turkey, I regret to inform you that the day of January 24 is, unfortunately, a date that has never been remembered with good memories. I have taken a pledge to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party Group on our proposal to set up a research commission to investigate all aspects of the unsolved murders in Turkey on the occasion of the anniversary of the murder of the late Uður Mumcu, who was killed by an unknown bomb attack 20 years ago. At the beginning of my words, I remember by mercy, gratitude, and gratitude Uður Mumcu, who was murdered only because of what he wrote, what he thought, and how he stood. Today, Uður Mumcu is remembered by tens of thousands of republican lovers, as has been for 20 years, from Bolu. For 20 years, in the snow, in the winter, in the freezing weather, all the revolutionary, democratic, patriotic, republican lovers who have not forgotten and forgotten Uður Mumcu, saluted my friends from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, the unsolved murders in Turkey began to increase in the 1980s and peaked in the early 1990s. The intellectuals, such as Abdi İpekçi, Muammar Aksoy, Bahriye Threeok, Turan Dursun, Ahmet Taner Barracks, Necip Hablemitoglu, were unfortunately slaughtered because they sought out the issues they should not investigate. It has already been seen that, given the concrete factors such as the collection of evidence after the massacres of our intellectuals, the informal construction of investigations, some of the state's institutions and even governments have contributed to the unsubstantiveness of these murders. The unsolved murders are made to inspire fear, to digest certain individuals and institutions. Therefore, the discovery of the person who planted the bomb or the person who pulled the trigger is not enough to get the perpetrator out of the cold. The point is to find out who planted that bomb, who pulled that trigger, and what they did it for. That's why the presence of the shooter does not mean the unsub's solve. In democratic law states, the government does not surrender to unsolved murders. After the massacre of the late Uður Mumcu, the country's Prime Minister, Mr. Güldal Mumcu, was a natural event. I regret to inform you that the governments of the 1990s have been reluctant to go after unsolved murders, while AKP governments, which began in the 2000s, tried to solve the unknown that worked for you, and the one who didn't work for you, tried to cover it up. AKP governments have not spent half of its sensitivity to vehicles parked in the street of the home of Brent Arinc to find the perpetrators of intellectuals who were murdered. The proposals for the establishment of research commissions during the AKP period to investigate these unsolveds have not even been accepted. On January 24th, I declare from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that the AKP government, who is the king of the imperial forces, does not think as it does, who is anti-emperical and does not want to be illuminated by all aspects of the killings of these intellectuals who are not guilty of anything other than being patriotic, because if these killings are revealed, it will be the finger of the imperial forces that brought the AKP to power.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0018par0295	Look at Silivri. Look at Silivri.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0017par0296	Again, it will be revealed that there are local collaborators at the domestic foot of these murders who are close to the AKP (AKP) today, who may even be involved in politics at this party.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0018par0297	Look over there.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0017par0298	In fact, if these murders are cleared, these unsolveds may even be found to pave the way for bringing a collaborative structure such as the AKP to power. That is why the AKP has never sincerely wanted to solve recent unsolved intellectual murders. Again, in this context, I find it useful to examine the judicial dimension of the perpetrators. The new HSYK, in particular after the 2010 referendum, and the dependent judiciary, which resulted in this, have made the investigation phases of the perpetrators deeply shallow, while in the process of prosecution, it is not even accepted by intervention lawyers to make the case clear. As a result, the event cannot be illuminated, many cases are being put on the shelf with the statute of limitations, facing this danger, lawmakers. A while ago, we said, "Let there be no statute of limitations on these unsolved murders." We have proposed a law on this matter, but here, in public, as the AKP Group, you didn't even take this bill seriously, you didn't even need to study it. Sincerity and political will are essential to solving an unsolved murder. No matter where the unsolved event may lead, no matter who it may be, no matter who it may be, it must be illuminated. That's what it takes to be a legal state. The government of the Republic of Turkey has so many unsolved murders in our country, and I am in power in this country. It is not for me to say. Therefore, on the 20th anniversary of the massacre of the late Uğur Mumcu, we, the Republican People's Party, invite the AKP's government to come to its senses and take concrete steps to solve the unsolved. And finally, I'd like to address the human and family dimension of the unsolved, lawmakers. We've talked a lot about it, but every time we talk about it, it's more about the political side, the reasons and the consequences of the unsolved. That's what we did. However, we've kept the traumas second-guessed, that this is a family dimension, that the families of the people we've sacrificed in these unknowns. In the past few months, Mr. Uğur Mumcu, the wife of Mr. Ugur Mumcu, whom we have blessed today, and Mr. Güldal Mumcu, deputy speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, wrote a book. This book. A book called Time Passing Through. Until today, Mr. Mumcu had not spoken much about these matters, perhaps, almost never spoke to the public. It's the first time he's written this in detail, he's written the priors, he's written the sequence, he's written the after-action. He wrote here clearly what wasn't done legally. He made it clear what mistakes were made in the phases of this investigation, and then as a family, he explained how psychologically they went through this massacre. I specifically beg you, please take this book and read it. I want you to see how the victim's family feels, what he's going through, and I'm sure you'll re-examine this with your conscience to solve this. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, I would like to share with you the following words that Uğur Mumcu has described himself as ending my words, which are important, Mr. Lawmakers. I'm an Ataturkist, I'm a republican, I'm a secularist, I'm an antiemperist, I'm an independent Turkey, I'm a liberal, I'm a human rights activist, I'm an enemy of terror; I'm an enemy of bigots, thieves, profiteers, profiteers. Then shoot it, smash it. They're like me from every part of me, and they'll get over me. He said, dear friends. With this feeling and thought, I say that it is very important for our country to support our group proposal, to establish this commission, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0019par0307	Thank you. It's Recep Special, Isparta MP who's asking for a word against the proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0020par0310	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the unsolved murders. For this occasion, we ask God's mercy to Uður Mumcu, and to Gaffar Okkan, and to his family's patience. Now, in his speech here on behalf of the motion holders, if you have something concrete and information-based, come and explain here that there is a structure in the EC PARTI that has collaborated with these unsubs, that previously had a structure that did not want to reveal it.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0021par0313	That's why we want a commission.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0020par0314	The AK PARTY is a party that brings up all the problems, all the people who keep these issues under wraps. We have no intention of covering anything up.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0022par0315	Don't throw it away!
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0023par0316	You didn't get the facts out. You're accusing others of false evidence?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0020par0317	There was no unsolved murder during the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0022par0318	Recep Special...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0024par0319	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0020par0320	Look, in the past tense, the mindset that attacked Uður Mumman and the State Department is the same mentality. You're saying here that the reason why the evil Mumcu was left unsolved is not solved. Then you go and camp in Silivri. What a contradiction.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0025par0322	Mr. Special, who is the murderer of Hablemitoglu?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0026par0323	The ones in Silivri are your inventions. The real killers are out there.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0020par0324	Anyone who wants to go camping in Silivri will not come here and have the same conversation. It's not political ethics, it's not moral, it's not appropriate to come in here and put the AK PARTY group under suspicion. Counselor, if you have anything, you can come and say it here. As an AK PARTY, we've always gone after the unsubs, and they'll keep going. We have no intention of covering anything up. In this parliament, commissions on the unsolved have been set up several times. His reports are in the archives of the House. Until deep construction, deep power, the AK PARTY, oh, I wish the political institution could fight it. The AK PARTY arrived, began to fight these deep constructions, and after that, a country where there will be no unsolved killings has now arrived in Turkey. For these reasons, everything that needs to be done is done by our power. We don't see the need for a research motion. That's why we don't agree. I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0027par0327	Thank you. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0028par0330	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it's not customary for two people from that group to speak on the research proposal given by a political party group, but I've asked the Justice and Development Party Group, and other political parties have come to understand. Therefore, I stand before you as the second speaker of the Republican People's Party. On the 20th anniversary of his death, I give thanks to the late Uður Mumcu. As I just said in my speech from my place, today is the anniversary of my death, Gaffar Okkan, and I remember again with mercy and gratitude. The unsolved murders are not limited to just Uður Mumcu, nor are they limited to Gaffar Okkan. Turkey's recent history is full of unsolved murders. Hopefully, we'll create an environment, a climate that will take care of them together, and we'll get this perpetrator out of Turkish democracy, such as the unsolved murders. Dear MPs, this year is the 223rd anniversary of the adoption of the 2013 French Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights. After the 1789 French Revolution, the French Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights, which addressed all mankind, aimed at all humanity, was published. The history of mankind, in a sense, is the history of the struggle for freedom and equality, and the struggles that mankind had fought until the age of 1789 actually created the entire history of humanity, and to sum it up in three words, human history has been accepted in the international text as an ideal for freedom, equality, ▪ to place concepts such as humanity, to accept them, and all democratic societies have since shown this challenge to achieve that value. All democracies have ideal levels of freedom, equality and brotherhood. All men are equal, all men are equal in the Republic of Turkey. As a social democratic party, the Republican People's Party considers all people who live in our country -- whether they are brothers or not -- equality, freedom, brotherhood. That's our approach to humans. We certainly don't accept a racial accusation as the Republican People's Party, we reject it. There is never such a concept at a social democratic party, and none of our MPs have that kind of understanding, and we reject such accusations.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0029par0333	Mr. President, yesterday, a member of your congresswoman's statement about the Kurds...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0028par0334	Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been suffering from terrorism for over 30 years. The naming of this problem is also a topic of discussion. We're going to call it a terror problem, a Kurdish problem, or another problem, and I don't think we should be so obsessed with those names. The naming is undoubtedly important, but whatever content we give to that problem is more important than all of them. But let me just say that the problem of terrorism and the Kurdish problem are the issues that are intertwined, and it's not possible to separate them. If you look at it one way, it's the problem of terrorism, and if you look at it the other way, it's the Kurdish problem. Let me solve the terror, then I'll solve the other one. It's not possible to show the approach. It takes a will to deal with all of this together and work it out together. The Republican People's Party's will on this matter is clear and clear. The Republican People's Party wishes to resolve this problem, the problem of terrorism, the Kurdish problem. In this way, Mr. President Kilicdaroglu has made an important statement, creating a climate that opens the way for Turkey by making an important political stance. I wish that this climate would continue, spread, and that Turkey would overcome this problem. We see that all our people within the borders of the Republic of Turkey are equal, that we see all our people as brothers.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0030par0336	That's not what you said yesterday.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0028par0337	We desire that all our people have the same freedom.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0031par0338	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, tell that to your deputy, don't tell us, tell your deputy!
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0028par0339	We want all our people to have the same rights, the same cultural, same political rights.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0032par0340	What do you say about education in the native language? What do you call defence in the native language?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0028par0341	In this country, we must seek ways to live together in peace, in brotherhood. That's the period, that's the time. We need to create this climate together, and together all political parties are responsible for it. That's what we consider the Republican People's Party. Again, we would reject such an approach as racism. Such a concept can't be near the Republican People's Party in any way, there's no way to relate it to the Republican People's Party in any way. We approach all people with concepts of equality and brotherhood, we embrace all people; all people, all citizens within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, must embrace each other.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0033par0342	Mr. President, your deputy has made a statement saying that you stand by his words.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0028par0343	Look, I'd like to give you an example of something that happened to me this week. Maybe I'm going to move on to another subject, but while I'm on this stand, I'd like to point out the problem that our citizens have delivered to me. We are closely monitoring Turkey's Syrian policy, following it. There are humanitarian demands for people living on Turkey's Syrian border, Syrian citizens, and those who are largely Kurds. A total of seven NGOs, all of whom have come to political parties in Ankara, which are exclusion of violence, which is rejecting violence, and I don't know which parties they've met with, but I've spoken to them in the Republican People's Party Group. These people in the north of Syria live there in isolation. They can't provide for their human needs. They have no preference to be with Assad or his opponents. Since they have not made such a choice, they are unable to meet their human needs, such as food, clothing, medicine, and I can't say that they are citizens of Syria, but if more than 2 million people can't even meet their human needs, it is wrong to give them the choice to prefer Assad, or the opponents of Assad. The Nusaybin Border Gate must also be opened, and the Government of the Republic of Turkey must show the necessary assistance and support to provide for the human needs of these people, and I'm announcing this from here to the government, and I'm making a call. Listen to these people's cries, their cries. Many political parties, NGOs or civil initiatives that we can name as liberals, we can call them left, we can call them Islamists, we can call them socialists, or we can call them other adjectives came to Ankara for such a purpose. I ask everyone to listen to this student, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0034par0346	Thank you. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0035par0349	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I also ask for God's mercy to Uður Mumcu, and my condolences to his relatives. Hopefully, the unsubs won't remain unsolved and they'll be brought to justice. Mr. Tanju gave a speech here. I can't get past this conversation without an answer. It has been truly unfortunate, indeed, to see the AK PARTY in parallel with the unsolved and unsolved murders. Because the AK PARTY has been a party that lifts the veil on unsolved murders, pulls the veil and brings it to light. Therefore, it is not fitting for Mr. Tanju to make a political polemic issue here and to strike below the belt of the AK PARTI. Turkey's history is truly full of political killings, and the majority of these political murders remain unsolved. So why are political murders committed? Why can't the perpetrators be found? When Turkey's political history is examined in the process of the political killings, both by increasing the chaos, chaos and violence ahead of the 1980 conflict, by changing the political climate, political ground in this chaos, and by increasing the violence in the citizen's environment -- if this blood will stop flowing, the impact environment, the political floor, the impact floor -- let the couprs sit down, just as long as this blood should stop. I find it remarkable that when we wake up the next day, the 1960 revolution and the 1980 revolution, Turkey is the port of milk, killings, violence is over. Really, it's a terrible situation. On the other hand, the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties, unfortunately, opposed this referendum with the "no" vote, which the EC PARTI government submitted to the referendum on September 2010 on September 12 to remove this armor related to the 1980 conflict and the 28 February process. But praise be to our beloved nation, who have lifted this armor with a 58 per cent, and who have said that it cannot be judged, has seen that it is now being tried by those who led the 12th of September and February 28th, that they should, of course, thank the EC PARTI centuries who brought it to light, but unfortunately, they have been stripped of the legalities of those who were tried. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is a truly reasonable assessment to make a parallel between the murder of Uður Mumcu and the murder of the State Department. It's a fact that it's intended to create the perception that a conservative people in society believe in their religion committed this murder. Those who wanted to create this perception, those who wanted to build this ground, really wanted to deceive people, and they succeeded. Some of the community believed in this deception. This is a hallucination, and the Republican People's Party is also affected by this hallucination. An answer to the Republican People's Party's connection to unsolved murders and the AK PARTY was there any unsolved murders or murders during the PARTI period? You know the Abbes' Gang, and in 2003, the perpetrators of the violence occurred in both the nation and the Anafartas were arrested and handed over to the judiciary. A murder by the name of Reverend Santoro, if you recall, his perpetrators were also handed over to the court. The perpetrators of the prosecution's attack have also been handed over to the court. The perpetrator of Hrant Dink was also handed over to the court. When we look at all of this, the AK PARTY has, of course, captured the perpetrators as an executive, handed them over to the judge, the judicial process is ongoing, and in some cases, we're going to wait for the outcome. So it's not fair to connect the AK PARTY here with the unsubs; that's one. The AK PARTY has always faced injustice. And finally, I'm going to say that as we uncover these structures, the rule of law, the order of democracy, the unsolved murders will end. It is possible that the unsubstantiated killings would be ended, that a number of structures were uncovered within the state, which wanted to stir up the impact grounds and the political floor, and so did the AK PARTY. I don't think there's any need to set up a parliamentary research commission, which is the response to the group's proposal. With these feelings, I declare that we will vote against the group's proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0036par0360	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder; Haqkari MP Adil Kurt; İstanbul MP Mutafa Sezgin Tanıkulu; Peace and Democracy Party Group Group Chairman Bingöl MP Idris Baluken's Law Proposals for the execution of the Law; Human Rights and Justice Commission reports. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. In the last merger, Article 1 was adopted in the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, after I've done the motion procedures on the substance and the rest of the material in chapter 1, I'm going to submit it to your separate votes. There are three motions on the 2nd article. I'll read the motions according to the order of arrival and process them according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the 365 rows of the bill. We offer and propose the release of the 2nd sentence of the temporary article 1 from the text of the article. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework of the draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of Criminal and Security measures. In accordance with Article 5271, it is only temporary. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "The following temporary clause is added to Article 2-5271. Article 1-1 - 1) This Law is 202. Article 1. The interpreters mentioned in the joke will be selected from among those listed on the list each year by the municipal Judicial Justice Commissions. The regulation to edit these lists is issued by the Justice Department within a month of the implementation of this clause. An interpreter is appointed by the Judge and the Prosecutor of the Republic until the regulation is issued. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Bkent Tezcan Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bedii Süheyl Batum Dilek Akagün Yilmaz The Penal Code 365 rows and the Execution of Penalty and Security Protections Act 2. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Celal Adan Oktay Özturk S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0037par0401	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0036par0402	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0038par0403	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0036par0404	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0039par0406	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Today is January 24, 2013. Write this history in your journals because today is a turning point for someone. The rematch of the crusaded Western civilization, as the Aqif said, is the only female left. The ones we're talking about are too valuable to leave this geography to the Turks yesterday. Those who put the Treaty of Sevr in front of the Turkish nation ninety-five years ago... Dear lawmakers, the Crusade West imperialism and its tongs, the bloody PKK have an account with the Muslim Turkish nation, it has a grudge against its national values. One of these values is the common language, Turkish. If you want to tear a country apart, you can lift the common language, make people talk, make them disagree, and the rest will be like socks. The PKK, who killed 40,000 people, launched hunger strikes on its militants two months ago. One of the demands, as you know, was defence in the native language. It's not a right to defend, it's an official language, I don't know Turkish, it's a rebellion. The Prime Minister roared as the hunger strikes continued. If they are not dead, they are not hungry. He said, "Let them go on a diet." Then what did he do? In accordance with the promises made in Oslo, he brought PKK's defence request to parliament in the main language. That's what grace always does. Whatever he brought to Parliament against the Turkish nation, or what he took out of Congress, quickly calming the nation, gasing the party group, false ephemeralism of terrorism, husband speaking from the high screen, then looking at the television screens, who said that? I remember, after I took out the Metropolitan Law, the BDP started a debate on removing the immunity of lawmakers. In BDP, we are here. He responded with such a challenge. And then there's nothing. When we remind you of this, you look at it as if it's the first time in your life. Another exit from the Prime Minister at Gaziantep a few days ago: What, we shouldn't fight terrorism? Why are you bringing PKK's request to the front of this Veteran Assembly today? There is no captivity in Turkish history, dear friends, but there are those who have accepted submission, kneeling, unfortunately, who are unaware. This nation, by the will of God, will live to preach. Turkish nationalists are under oath. Our thousand-year brotherhood will continue until the end of time, and this trap will surely be wiped out, but the mentality that carries the terrorist organization's demand to the House will never be forgotten, because this nation will not forget the Ali Kemals as Mustafa Kemals did. Is there a language defect in our current judicial system? No. What we have in international law, we don't lack, we don't lack, we don't have the same. Those who don't know Turkish are given interpreters in court. The European Union also has an eyebrow over its eye. If it doesn't say so, what is it? It's clear where this leak is headed. Tomorrow, if the judge says, "This language is a language I don't know, I can't make up my mind, put someone who speaks this language here." What are you going to do? Are you going to look for a judge and prosecutor whose native language is Kurdish? Are you going to teach Kurdish law in law schools, or are you going to divide the courts into Turkish, Kurdish? You're saying to the lawyer who doesn't speak Kurdish: you can't go to trial today, in court, in Batman, in Hakkari. The judge, who does not speak Kurdish, told the prosecutor: "You cannot serve in the southeast. " What is the name of this, not to divide and divide? Look at BDP's 2011 election declaration, where they declared that the country would be divided into 20-25 autonomous zones, where these services would be held in regional parliaments, but the law and justice services would be jointly served. It says: "O Republic of Turkey, you will share with me the sovereignty rights." Ignore the martyrs, the veterans, their trusts, their sanctity in the name of honor and dignity, and give up the unitary state because the PKK wanted it. I think the futile thing we're looking for at this time is those who will say "No" to the PKK's request and claim the integrity of the country, who will remember that the Turkish son is Turkish. Rest assured, this song will not end here, and the price of silence will be high, and I assure you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You will answer not only to us, but to your own children. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0040par0418	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0041par0419	Mr. President, during the Minister's speech, the BDP Group said the wrong things about certain statements in the election declaration.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0040par0420	What statements?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0041par0421	So he talked about a project that led families of martyrs, families of veterans, to divide the country. I just want to say it's not like that.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0042par0422	No, I didn't say that. Only autonomous zones...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0040par0423	Here, let's not get into any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0042par0424	I didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0040par0425	Just a second... let him explain. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0043par0429	Dear MPs, the project that BDP has now uncovered for the solution to the Kurdish problem is not a hidden project for Turkey's democratisation. We advocate changing the current administration system and discussing the democratic autonomy project as BDP. We've declared this in both our election declaration and our party programme to all our people.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0044par0430	Okay, that's what I said.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0043par0431	We have said that we are open to debate with other parties who have a project about their projects, that the approach we've basically discussed is to overcome the monotheistic understanding of Turkey, to develop political projects that can provide freedom for different identities, different cultures, different beliefs, different languages. So here, we don't accept any of the charges intended to divide the state or to define the sensitivity of different parts of Turkey over some understanding that ignores it. We've formulated the project that we've presented to include 75 million in this country. We say over and over again in Turkey that the current administrative system and monotheistic understanding must be overcome. So it's not right for our friend to bring a hidden project here in the form of covert activity that the House, the public, will miss the political parties. All projects made by the BDP are open to the debate of the Assembly and the people. In this regard, we invite all political parties to discuss the solution to the Kurdish problem with their own solution projects. If there is no project, if there is an attitude towards the continuation of monotheistic understanding, the continuation of current problems, of course we always display our opposition to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0045par0436	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0046par0437	Mr. President, just for the record. I won't take any promises.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0045par0438	The subject has been explained. Your...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0046par0439	Mr. Orator must have said exactly what I said.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0045par0440	That's what I'm saying. He repeated what you said. So it's true.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0047par0441	Yeah, they've already used it as a division of the unitary state structure. That's what we mean by division.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0045par0447	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework of the draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of Criminal and Security measures. In accordance with Article 5271, it is only temporary. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. "The following temporary clause is added to Article 2-5271. Article 1-1 - 1) This Law is 202. Article 1. The interpreters mentioned in the joke will be selected from among those listed on the list each year by the municipal Judicial Justice Commissions. The regulation to edit these lists is issued by the Justice Department within a month of the implementation of this clause. An interpreter is appointed by the Judge and the Prosecutor of the Republic until the regulation is issued. Bedii Suheyl Batum (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0048par0455	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0045par0456	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0049par0457	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0045par0458	Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0050par0460	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party Group against the 2nd Amendment. Dear MPs, I explained our views on Article 1 last night. CHP's attitude is clear and clear, over the first 2 articles of this law. We clearly say that you have brought an unconstitutional arrangement. We didn't see it. We didn't mean it like that. You want him to say that. Dear friends, we thought we'd give the right to defend the person who can't speak Turkish, who can't speak Turkish, let alone speak Turkish, who can't defend Turkish. We, everyone, should know Turkish, should speak Turkish, should not speak Turkish, should not speak Turkish, we have never had the idea that he should not defend himself; and we have made it clear here and at the commission of the law that he did not. We said, "If he doesn't know Turkish, even if he declares that he doesn't know enough to defend himself." While you're standing here, I'll tell you that as far as the Republican People's Party is concerned -- no one, no one, and no Republican People's Party, has the right to take these open attitudes as a means of perceived or perceived hostility towards Kurdish citizens. Dear friends, I've said it in the - 1st article -- you say: "We didn't say it, we didn't explain it, that you want us to accept something clearly contrary to the Constitution. You're saying that the Minister of Justice asked us to ignore it, and our Prime Minister asked us to ignore it, and how do we see it? If your purpose, if you really had the right to defend them, you know most of you, highly valued lawmakers -- if you really wanted to defend yourself, if you had the best use of the right to defend yourself, you would have received the same arrangement in Article 202 in the article (1), you would have said: "The government has to find the authority in the CMK." You would have done the same thing. What did you do? Clearly... you don't want a right to defend, you want a lie, you want to defend in the language he prefers, he wants. Okay, that's what your Hakan Fidan would have promised on your behalf in Oslo. Okay, that's what your Minister of Justice or Prime Minister wants. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the Great National Assembly of Turkey, is the second article of the Constitution, the equitable clause of the Constitution, the unchanging articles of the Constitution; did Hakan discuss them for us in Oslo. Will you ignore them for us? What you did was you said, "If the inequality is obvious, if it does not speak Turkish, I will give its interpreter, the state will pay for it, but if it is also -- let it bring its interpreter from his house, and let him find it himself; his money will not be paid from the state treasure." I, dear friends of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, say this to the very valuable, especially majority lawmakers here, and I sincerely say this to you: You cannot ignore this inequality, this injustice, because the Prime Minister has been instructed by the United States of America to do what he says. Again, let us defend the rights of the Kurds, of those who don't speak Turkish together, but not in the way Hakan said, but not in the way the United States gave you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0051par0468	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the 365 rows of the bill. We offer and propose the release of the 2nd sentence of the temporary article 1 from the text of the article. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0052par0475	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0051par0476	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0053par0477	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0051par0478	Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0054par0480	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 2nd Amendment to the Penal Code of 365 rows and the Execution of Penalty and Security. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the right to defend is one of the essential norms of modern legal systems. Thus, the legal system strives to use this right as effectively as possible, and its norms about the right to defence comment as broadly as possible. Because the goal is to find out if the alleged crime has occurred and to find the material truth with the evidence available. This adoption in modern law also finds its compensation in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the Article 36, titled the freedom of the Constitution to seek justice, states that everyone has the right to a fair trial as a prosecutor or a defendant in front of the judicial authorities in order to take advantage of it by means of means and means. In this case, the defense is a constitutional right. Again, the third article of the Turkish Penal Code: the implementation of the Penal Code cannot be discriminated against by race, language, religion, sect, nationality, gender, political and other ideas, philosophical belief, national or social origin, birth, economic and other social positions, and no one is allowed to be privileged. It is important to say that defence is a universal human right, and that this change, once again, opens the way for defence in the main language, is written in a very timid language. The third chapter of the Lausanne Peace Accord, the establishment treaty of the Republic of Turkey, contains provisions for the protection of cultural rights. Some of these provisions are intended to protect non-Muslim minorities in Turkey, but some provisions guarantee the rights of different cultures, including Kurds, who are non-Muslim minorities. The fifth text of the Article 39 of the Lausanne Treaty is: Despite the presence of the official language of the state, Turkish nationals who speak a language other than Turkish will be allowed to use their language verbally in the courts. In this joke, all non-religious minorities are allowed to use their own language in court. Despite the official language of the state, the definition of the state has also indicated that other languages should not be used outside the official language. In this context, the right to defend himself in another language, which the Ministry of Justice has stated to the court that it can better express itself to the person in front of the court, is not progress, but, in fact, a restitution of a long-standing right. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been instructed by the bill that the indictment of the defendant, who can express himself better in another language, can make his verbal defense better expressed by the fact that the debate on the basis has been given. This arrangement must be expressed as incomplete. First, it is important to state that the trial is a phase of investigation and prosecution. Therefore, in the course of the investigation, it is necessary to allow the unsub to speak in a language where he can express himself better during questioning and testifying. In addition, in the process of prosecution, the transfer of evidence, the witness and the witness must be allowed to listen and to speak in the language that the defendant has expressed, that he can better express himself. It should also be possible for the suspect or the defendant to file a written petition in any language in the matter of prosecution, especially the assessment of evidence, including his defence. In addition, interpreter costs should be covered by the government. However, despite all these shortcomings and the fact that it's too late to remove them, I say the bill is positive, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0055par0490	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0056par0493	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit01spe0055par0494	We've been asked a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Article 2 of the 365th Bill of the Law was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 3 that I read and process: We would like to introduce and propose the addition of the declaration of sickness risk to a full health institution, which should be closely monitored before the 6th amendment of Article 3 of the Law Bill on the Execution of Penal and Security Measures in 365 rows. Enver Erdem Celal Adan S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the clause of "the sentence institution, which cannot sustain its life alone in the conditions of execution and will not be considered a danger to public safety" in the 6th article of the 365th amendment. Secret Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Murat Bozlak Halil Aksoy Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework 3 of the draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security measures. Article 5275 replaced by Article 16. Article 3. The phrase "designed and approved by the Forensic Medicine Agency" in his joke was to be removed from the text, added to the phrase "regulated" and added to it. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. " (6) The execution of the prisoner, who is at risk of progressing in conditions of his life alone or which may be life-threatening or life-threatening due to a severe illness or injury, is put back until he recovers according to the procedure set in the third joke. The prisoner will be released until he recovers." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0057par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0055par0029	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0058par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0055par0031	Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0059par0032	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on Article 3 of the Constitution. I salute you all. Today is the 20th year of Uður Mumcu's death, and with respect to Uður Mumcu, I begin with the thought that everyone should do whatever it takes to make sure that Uður Mumcu's file doesn't expire. The motion we've made is a motion that should be taken seriously, which has just completed its right to defend, because we feel it is not right to submit to the approval of a report by an institution, such as the Forensic Medical Association, which has caused serious problems, serious problems. We also condemn that this provision for the prisoner should not be taken into account for the prisoners, because right now, in Turkey, imprisonment has become a prison sentence, an execution of punishment. Unfortunately, there are no judicial authorities left to evaluate the detention of the sentence in legal and human dimensions. Therefore, we think that by bringing serious sanctions to the prisoners, we need to ensure that our friends are released in a state of illness, because the right to defend as much as the right to live is important, but a disorder that will adversely affect their right to defend them becomes torture, and there is no way to defend themselves in an independent manner, contrary to the Convention on Human Rights of Europe and the Constitution. That's why we've prepared and edited the motion. My dear friends, while we are in prison in a state of negative condition, we should be conducting a study to evaluate our people, the defendants, the prisoners, and the inmates who have had a relapse, and we're just organizing the prisoners, and ultimately, we're bringing him the approval of a medical examiner in a troubled practice. In this country, however, hundreds of people, who are almost certain to die before their trial, expect a human application from us. Let's do this app. If we fail to carry out this practice, we also rob these people of the right to a fair trial because a troubling disorder brings a troubling practice, and their chances of defending it are being taken away freely. The title of the 16th article of our Criminal Execution Act is the postponement of the act. So the execution is an application of sanctioned punishments, and this has happened before. We're increasing the times, we're expanding the times, but the main goal is to prepare a defense mechanism in accordance with human rights. Unfortunately, the law is not enough. That's why we've submitted our motion, and we'd like our motion to be accepted. Otherwise, we'll be taking away the rights of our friends to a healthy trial. With these feelings, I ask you all to support our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0060par0041	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Penalty Institution, which cannot survive alone in the conditions of execution, which are added to Article 3/5 of the 365th Amendment bill, be removed from the text of matter, which is considered not a danger to public safety. Sebahat Tuncel (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0061par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0060par0049	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0062par0050	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0060par0051	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0063par0053	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. First of all, the matter of the matter, the delay of the sentence of these sick prisoners, is a very important clause for many patients in prisons. Many prisoners and prisoners await this law today, but the arrangement here, unfortunately, is not at a level that meets the need. According to the Human Rights Association's 2011 report, there are now 141 prisoners and prisoners in this emergency situation. You know, the procedure so far, he needs to get a report from the Coroner's Office, which the President should forgive. A similar arrangement here actually, so let's say, with a full-fledged hospital, the coroner's report is mandatory. It's very troubling. The IHD, in particular, has criticism in its report that the Forensic Medicine has lost its neutrality, that the political government generally approaches the AKP today according to other governments, which prevents the release of sick prisoners and prisoners. These critiques are very serious criticisms. In that respect, we think it's important to remove the forensic obligation here, Mr. Secretary. Perhaps a report from a full-fledged hospital your Ministry sees fit should be sufficient. For example, Gift Aksoy can remain in prison for example, even though a full-fledged hospital report to our friend at Bakırköy Prison gives him 90 per cent of invisibleness. He is still in prison because of his report, which unfortunately does not apply positively in our country. Unfortunately for those who are in prison because of the TMK, it is not considered positive, it is considered more negative, it is considered for security reasons. Here, the promise to pose a danger to the safety of the community is more used in terms of political prisoners. It's important to get that word out of here. Again, another issue in this article is, in fact, a negative application for political female prisoners, which is a delay in punishment for pregnant women. We mentioned it yesterday, and it actually needs to be removed from the text of matter. It's very negative for women. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, indeed, this bill has been referred to as more of a master language bill, and we've been discussing it for two days. But let's leave the Kurdish people's right to use their native language -- education in the native language, public use of the native language -- who have a very serious problem with the drafting of this bill. I'd like to say once again that it's not possible to accept that. In particular, the words of some of our friends who describe themselves as socialist on this bench, especially from our point of view, are unacceptable. Once again, I'm a socialist, and I've been fighting socialists for years. When you ask them what is the most fundamental principle for social democrats and socialists? They say two things: One, it is the socialist's primary duty to stand by the oppressed nation; two are the rights of nations to decide their own destiny. I've never seen a socialist who won't say anything about these two fundamental issues, who isn't on the side of it. Let's leave it to the nation that is oppressed in this Parliament, to be on the side of the issue of the nation's right to choose its own destiny, that the Turkish people and the Kurdish people, who don't even accept the right to defend it in the native language, are not equal, which will sustain other inequalities, as well as the Turkish and the Turkish are not equal, neither are the Armenians and the Turk, nor are the Alevi and Sunni. Because if you legitimize an inequality debate somewhere, this inequality will go to other points. An argument itself shows the state of Turkey. In fact, those who are opposed to the process today should be the most involved in the discussion of the solution to the Kurdish problem. We don't understand that. For example, this bill hurts us so much, that we can't use our own native language, that we don't defend our own native language, that we have to be content with crumbs like this, that we get hurt from somewhere else, and no one evaluates it. So it's a process, that's how we express it, so that we can develop this process together, develop a people's demand for rights and freedom together, but we want to say once again that it's not a very acceptable point for the main opposition to do this somewhere else. How are we going to live together, how are we really going to live together from a democratic, equal, liberal point in this country, by destroying each other, by comparing each other to each other? I want to live in the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey as a Kurdish in this country, but I want to use my language, my religion, my culture. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say it's impossible to have democracy in this country unless these things happen, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0064par0063	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We would like to introduce and propose the addition of the declaration of sickness risk to a full health institution, which should be closely monitored before the 6th amendment of Article 3 of the Law Bill on the Execution of Penal and Security Measures in 365 rows. Enver Virtue and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0065par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0064par0071	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0066par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0064par0073	Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0067par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. As the National Movement Party, we are unfortunately facing a new one of the arrangements that we consider under the laws of treason. With this arrangement you've brought, we see once again that there's a theater in the middle. The theatre in the middle, the writers, unfortunately, is a joint theater of PKK, ACK, BDP, Imralı, Kandil. With all due respect, you are the AKP MPs in this theater. When we look at the main theme of the theatre, it's a multilingual, multinational, multi-flag, multi-judgmental Turkey longing. In order for this law to be passed, the people who wrote the theatre are writing the scene of the hunger strike. The PKK and CK defendants are starting their hunger strike. Their demands are to be judged in the native language and to be dealt with by the villain of the Imran. Dear lawmakers, this is not an innocent structure we call KCK. This is the upper structure of the PKK terrorist organisation and the construction of a parallel state. The AKP, which plays the hunger strike scene, is moving to carry out these demands immediately. The baby killer and the Imran killer, who ended the hunger strike, was made a faithful, innocent, well-intentioned hero, and in the face of this good deed, this provision is brought to your attention, which will pave the way for the defence in the native language but will pave the way for the trial. This and such regulations are a theatre. I say it is a theatre. I say it's a theatre, because it's an undivisable whole with the state, the country and its nation, and you bring it back to the Parliamentary General Assembly, even though it's first revealed in all its dimensions, even though it's shown in both the subcommittee and in the General Assembly, and the third article of the Constitution is clear and undivisible with its country and its language. Apart from the breach of the Constitution, such an arrangement was not necessary, nor was such an arrangement right, the valued MPs were brought up at every stage. About a year and a half ago, again, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the General Assembly, you promised to remain faithful to the Constitutional Assembly on the basis of their honour and honor, if we recall the promises you made in accordance with the Constitutional Court, the oaths you made. Either remember this promise, or come here and testify, dear lawmakers, that you have given up this promise. Again, professors from universities listened, representatives of the Supreme Court heard, opinions were taken from the bar, and none of them found this arrangement right. When you look at it as an answer, we certainly see that there is no shortage. Apart from the ACK cases, which include the political demand for sovereignty, there have been no problems throughout the history of the republic on defence in our country's main language. What did these defendants want in ACK cases? They wanted to render the courts ineffective, they wanted to undermine court activities, they wanted to be judged in the native language. The defendants didn't say they didn't know Turkish or that they knew Kurdish better, but you provided these demands as AKP MPs, and we can't judge them in the native language, but we can expand the defence in the language that opens the way for trial in the native language. And that's how you brought this request to our presence. But, you know, dear lawmakers, this arrangement is not an arrangement that conforms to innocent, international norms, human fundamental rights and freedoms, our beliefs, our traditions and customs. It's a demand for sovereignty, an arrangement that bows down to the separatist organization, breaks up the nation, makes it laugh internationally. It cannot be ruled by compromises, it cannot be solved by fulfilling the demands of the separatist terrorist organization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Will these demands come to an end? Will you forgive the baby killer? Will you yield to the demands of the land? I'm saying that as a whole, I want you to bring this to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and say it together, so that the Turkish nation knows exactly what your intentions are, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0068par0087	Thank you. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the fourth article. Congressmans, there are four motions on the clause, but according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, there are only two motions on each clause. Lawmakers of every political party group have the right to make a motion. In accordance with these provisions, I will first have the first three motions read according to the order of arrival, and then I will process these motions according to the degree of discrepancy. For the same reason, the second motion made by lawmakers of the Republican People's Party Group was not adopted. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary has been changed in the framework 4. Article 5275 replaced by Article 17 Article 4. Even if it does, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration of the prisoner after the declaration of the prisoner. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Article 6 be removed from the text of the article, which has been added with the amendment to Article 4 of the 365th Amendment. Secret Pervin Buldan Murat Bozlak In accordance with Penal Code 365, the 4th Amendment on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures. Article (3). With a joke (6). We offer and propose that the joke (c) be removed from the substance text. Scholar Light Celal Adan Nevzat Don't Fear Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdogan Oktay Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0069par0117	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0068par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0070par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0068par0120	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0071par0122	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on Article 4 of Law Bill 365, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council and our precious nation who follow us. Dear lawmakers, as it has been seen many times before, this is a bill in which, as an AKP classic, poison is first given to people and then tried to be forgotten by some sweeteners. We are now bringing improvements to some of the victims, after spending the first two articles, which are one of the important steps to the division of the saintly Turkish nation, which you have expressed for extremely innocent reasons, such as the so-called right to defend. Article 4 contains regulations specifically concerning the postponement of the executions of some convicted felons who have committed crimes intentionally or indiscriminately. Then, if any civil suit has been filed during this postponement period, it predicts that those who benefit from this postponement will be put back in prison immediately. Thus, we predict that this (3)th joke will be removed from these improvements. Another issue is the 6th joke (c) that those sentenced to disciplinary or pressure imprisonment cannot benefit from these improvements, meaning that delays can't be applied. And in our motion, we would like to see those who have been sentenced to disciplinary or pressure arrests benefit from these improvements. Precious lawmakers are on the run in the ten-year period of AKP's administration, in prison today's nearly 20,000 violations of commitments, and in the case of 250,000 others. Now, in this arrangement where you make good and bad improvements to everyone, because of your poor economic policy, he can't make a living, he can't fulfill his commitment, and for every commitment he makes, what's the crime of those who've had to pay for up to three months? There's a postponement on purpose to kill a man, but not because he doesn't have a job to make a living, or because he can't pay his debt in time. What kind of justice is that? We asked the minister during the negotiations of a law. We said, "What is the number of things in this situation?" He couldn't make that number. Yesterday, we asked the Deputy Prime Minister why those sentenced to this pressure and disciplinary arrest were not taken advantage of. I share his answer with you: ▪ These punishments are punishments to force a person on a subject. Therefore, the execution of the sentence in the bill will not benefit them. So force, force, and force, will you kill these people? You gave these people jobs and they didn't pay you back? So we think this motion is a valid motion. Since you speak of peace in peace in this society, there is forgiveness for the mountain, but not for the people who strive to carry out their civic duty! I'd like to share with you the message of a man convicted of this victim. He's in prison. He's on leave, he's going home, and his wife's been violated again for the same crime, and they're taking his wife to prison with her seven-month-old child right in front of him. Dear lawmakers, there are many such examples. His wife and himself are in prison, whose children have committed suicide. The bride, if we want justice, if we want peace, if we want peace, let's find a solution. It's not a matter of people's willingly getting worse, it's the result of a system of debt-based money you're drowning people in. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I look forward to your support and respect for this motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0072par0131	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0073par0132	We want a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit02spe0072par0133	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... all those in denial... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0072par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote for the motion given by Kütahya MP Alim Izim and his friends on Article 4 of the 365th Amendment. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, no motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Amendment of 365 rows. We offer and propose that the subsection of Article 6 added by amendment to Article 6 be removed from the article text. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0074par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0072par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0075par0014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0072par0015	Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0076par0017	Dear friends, I salute you all. We define ourselves with Turkey. We are a people looking for our destiny and future in this land. We have no objection to Turkish or official language. We've always respected the values of the Turkish people, and we will be from now on, but let everyone know that people live here outside the Turks, and everyone should respect these people. We've been watching and arguing here for two days. A people's language has been forbidden. When the Republic was formed, we talked about a common country in 1921, and then we reduced it to one race in 1924, created the Turkish people and persecuted other people, and today there are two days of debates about defence in the native language. We understand the National Movement Party, but the resistance of the Republican People's Party in this matter... yes, we understand you because your genetic heritage has rejection and denial policies. Yesterday, a spokesman of yours says: "There is no Kurdish problem in Turkey. In Turkey, you made the problem a Turkish problem. The Turkish nation cannot be equal to the Kurdish nation. From now on, we're on the defensive, and from now on, we'll use our right to self-defense. By God, you've used your right to attack the people for the rest of your life - the right of self-defense - the right of the oppressed. That's racist rhetoric, a fascist expression. That's the only time you say that at a party. Look, on that date -- 1930, September 19th -- you know what Mahmoud Assad Bozkurt said? Turk is the sole master of this country, he is the sole master, he has the right to be a servant in this country, he has the right to be a servant, he has the right to be a slave, he has the right to be a friend and an enemy and the mountains to know this truth. Arshkun Kırca, 1994, on this stand again, what did he say when our immunity was lifted? That's exactly what Mahmut Assat Bozkurt said. The Kurds can shut up and have no right but to serve. You, today, are actually part of this politics, you are part of the policy of denial and denial. Some of the people from your group were attacking us all the way back to our group yesterday. I have a word with you. Look, I looked into the Kayseri MP who attacked this place later, which Kayseri MP knows very well who killed his uncle before September 12th. If you're so brave, if you're so brave...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0077par0021	Fascists killed him! Fascists killed him! Who's gonna kill him? - Don't talk! Don't talk! We don't take you seriously. Alma!
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0078par0024	We're not taking you either!
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0079par0025	If you're so brave, look, your Kayseri, your mayor of Kayseri, Attorney Mustafa Kulkuloğlu, is being killed, your district president is being murdered, a lawyer party is being killed. In Adana, your mayor is being killed. In the third package, these killers were cleared, and these killers are out there right now, and you've been quiet.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0078par0026	Who cleared it? Who cleared it?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0080par0027	Who cleared it? We cleared it? If your heart is strong enough, you will defend the law of your comrades. Your hands and arms... - You won't come to these tables and attack here. We defend the integrity of the nation. We defend the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0081par0032	Musa Pine spoke from this stand, that's what he said.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0080par0033	It'll go on until we're dead.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0082par0034	Sir, we will use our right to self-defense. What would you do if you were fire? From now on, if you'll be careful talking to us.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0080par0035	Are you threatening me? Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0082par0036	Look, I'll tell you, what tradition do you come from?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0080par0037	We come from the tradition of Kuvayillia.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0082par0038	Do you know what your former president said on February 7, 2008? You can either fight for Salvation, change the Constitution, or you can revolutionize, risk the execution, change the Constitution. At that time, he threatened Parliament by taking both the judiciary and the tank and the gun behind him. Look at us, we are not afraid of judgment, of Parliament, of your tanks, of your cannons. We also know Turkish, we speak Turkish, but 10,000 prisoners today are doing this to free their native language if they want to defend Kurdish. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, we know Turkish better than you do, and we have no objection to Turkish; all our objections are against fascism, against racism. I swear, I see a lot of people walking around here with racism and fascism all over them.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0083par0042	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary has been changed in the framework 4. Article 5275 replaced by Article 17 Article 4. Even if it does, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration of the prisoner after the declaration of the prisoner. Veli Agha (Malatia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0084par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0083par0050	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0085par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0083par0052	Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0086par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. Today is the anniversary of Uður Mumcu's death, and I remember him from here once again. Dear friends, the bill the ruling party has brought leaves certain points out of context. I mean, it's not a more advanced design, it's a more backward design. There is no terror-based distinction in the old law, and now these distinctions are being increased. Again, tens of thousands of people who are currently in prison for violating the commitment due to government economic policies are being excluded from the scope of discipline and pressure that concerns thousands of people. I mean, it seems like this arrangement is expanding the scope, but it's taking terrorist crimes and organised crime out of context to a further point than it used to be. This arrangement violates the principle of equality of the Constitution. It is also contrary to United Nations Resolution 43/173, dated December 9, 1988. What I want to point out is that in this decision, prisoners cannot be subject to different execution regimes in terms of their crimes. Of course, the Execution Protection Act in Turkey, unfortunately... when we look at prisons like F type, type E, type R, type M... it's possible to see all the letters of the alphabet in prisons, high-security types... when we look at these applications, you'll be amazed wherever you see them outside of Turkey, you'll be amazed. Of course, dear friends -- in a normal country -- if we can agree on terrorism and organised crime, if everyone has the same comment on it, that's fine. However, in our country, there are so many counts of terror and organised crime that there is nothing like it in the world. Now, it is a crime of terrorism to ask for free education; March 8, May 1, to attend the celebrations; to sell concert tickets; to commemorate the death anniversary of Erdal Eren, and Deniz Gezmis; to cut hair, to carry an umbrella, to carry an umbrella, to carry an egg; to join the terror of World Women's Day; to protest RSWP; to protest terrorism, dear friends. Of course, with these accusations, it's hard not to think that the people who are in prison for these crimes are also being wronged, whether they are or not. Again, we, the Republican People's Party Prison Commission, have recently visited Tekirdağ Prison. A student there was arrested for supporting people who wanted to study without money; those who wanted to study without money were arrested for their arrest, for protesting it. Those students are out there, now their other friends are in jail. Again, recently, we see that the unionists of KESK are in prison because of their trade union activity. It's just unionism they do. We know that professors, university professors, are only in prison for the sake of teaching. Dear friends, now, Kenan Universe, leader of the fascist regime of September 12th, Kenan Evren, I am proud of the AKP. The ear of the horn has passed. He says to the AKP. Before there was pluralism in September 12th, this country was governed by five generals, which is now managed by one Pasha, says Kenan Universe. He's proud of you, Kenan Universe, because you've taken the lead on many things in the world. On September 12th, you left me behind. Says Kenan Evren, you left me behind in terms of arrested journalists. He says, "You left me behind in terms of the arrested professor." In terms of the imprisoned politician, there is no country in the world except Turkey, where there are probably so many prisoners; if there is, you tell me. Over 10,000 imprisoned politicians are currently lying in prisons. Again, there's another unique example in the world that eight arrested MPs are in prison, unfortunately. Dear friends, in Turkey, unfortunately, are facing terrorist crimes that have taken every step of the way. We've been faced with an app that I don't know whether or not the lawyers in the AKP group are ashamed of these practices or not. At five o'clock in the morning, lawyers were taken into custody by breaking down the doors of lawyers and being offended in front of the press. Dear friends, look, this is no way to go about it. One third of the world's terrorist criminals are in Turkey. These terrorist criminals are not born by our mothers, these terrorist criminals are the AKP mentality, AKP policies. I ask that this motion be accepted, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0087par0069	Do you take care of every lawyer? Can we take care of every lawyer?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0088par0070	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0089par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0088par0073	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0089par0074	Mr. President, in the speech of Mr. Sırrı Sakık, Mr. Sýpýk, he's just had a few words about taunting our group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0088par0075	Mr. Hamzacebi, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Please, let's not make a new mess. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0089par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once I've been on this stand, I'd like to make it very briefly: the Republican People's Party rejects racism. The Republican People's Party rejects discrimination. The Republican People's Party rejects all governments, all authoritarian understandings, not based on the people's will, not legitimizing them. He accepts the understanding that all people on this land, on this geography, have equal rights. On this land, we must look for ways to live together in peace; we must use this bench for him, and if we use it for other purposes besides him, we will find it difficult to find ways to live together in peace. Let me rephrase that. Again, equality, freedom and brotherhood are universal human values based on the Republican People's Party. Our policies are at the center of our program, there's an individual, there's a human being.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0090par0083	Do you agree with what Mr. Güler said? If that's not racism, then what is it?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0089par0084	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0091par0086	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0092par0087	That's not what your spokesman said last night.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0093par0088	Mr. President, I mean, it's very humane of them to make self-criticism at this point. We thank you. Our word is for the racists.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0091par0089	Thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary shall be changed in the framework 5. Article 5275 replaced by Article 19. Article 3. We offer and propose that the phrase "sends" in his joke be removed from the text and added to the phrase "sends." Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Bulent Tezcan Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Penal Code 365, the 5th Amendment on the execution of Penalty and Security Protection. Article 3. In his joke, we offer and propose that the notice be changed to the government itself. Celal Adan S. Nevzat Korkmaz Lütfu Türkkan Enver Erdem Oktay Özturk Mehmet Erdoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0094par0110	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0091par0111	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0095par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0091par0113	Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0096par0114	Ali Longırmak.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0091par0115	Ali Longırmak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0097par0117	Honourable MPs, I pay my respects to all of you. Dear friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been having discussions for a period of time, but when there are debates that are not based on propaganda, history, science, law, it is therefore impossible to build a logic. One thing needs to be based on is human rights, freedom, democracy, civic law, which no one objects to, but it's the definition of constitutional identities with some definitions that we stand on with precision. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I'd like to state that sovereignty belongs to the unconditional, unconditional nation. The indivisibility of the country and the nation is essential. Changing the law of a state based on these foundations should be only as possible as the will of those who founded that law must be, otherwise it can't be. Other states may have other choices, but these are the choices of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Dear MPs, I want you to know that when the Turks arrived in Asia Minor, they came today from Central Asia with many tribes, which are heading towards the term Kurds. Today, Mush has a family of Lolans, but the Lolans are actually from the Lolan region of Turkistan, where you'll run into the Lolan region. Look, I met Berdi-Bek Hakan when I was reading a book written by French writer Jean-Paul Roux, two thousand years of Turkish history, and I called Congressman Fevzi Berdibek Bey, whom you all know last semester, and I said, "Fevzi Bey, where does your last name come from?" He said: 'Big brother, we are from the Golden Army.' I said: 'Congratulations.' I mean, Berdibek calls himself Zaza and says he's from the Golden Army. Dear MPs, we have a friend from the defendants of September 12th, who is a brother of ours named Cezayir. He is the grandson of Yado Pasha, Sheikh Sait, and Yado Pasha, a commander of the Sheikh Sait, and has been exiled on September 12th because of his nationality. Look, I'd like to share a memory with you: there are Fethi Namlioğlu of the Elazig defendants. Fethi Namlıoğlu's father has come to trial, he is watching his son's trial, and Fethi Namlıoğlu's name is announced by the prosecutor on the 226 death list, and his father rebeles from his father's place, defaming his father's place, Fathi, Fethi, how does that work? Your grandfather was hanged for Kurdishism, and you will be hanged for Turkishism.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0098par0123	There's no shame in that friend.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0097par0124	So all of these issues can be solved, dear friends, from the point of view of Turkish nationalism in the Republic of Turkey, and from the point of view of Turkish nationalism, without running away from racism. We're not dealing with anyone's language, their mother, their mother, their father. Such nationalism has never been adopted, nor has its nationalism, which is described as racism -- without the chaos of my conscience -- have the Turks claimed it. When we came to Anatolia, we did not end the sovereignty of any people, dear friends, and I insist. So, today, if we believe that the Father Kurds were only a boy from Mesopotamia, the Baba Kurdi from the Assyrians had a state founded in Turkey, we did not end this state, we did not end this state, precious friends, we did not stop their sovereignty. On the contrary, we have saved the vasal of Muslim communities from Byzantines, who were the guardians of Byzantines. In fact, even in the books of some of my friends who are doing politics today, I want those who advocate certain ideas to know who sat there in the conquest of Diyarbakır at the time of Hazreti Omar, and who lived in the majority of which communities lived there. So, the path to sharing sovereignty by blowing a storm in a glass of water... I repeat: the founding wills of other states, the founding powers may have made different choices, but Turkey's founding will, the founding philosophy, its founding philosophy. This founding will is only possible by those methods to change the process. I want you all to know, I want everyone to know, I want the whole world to know. My deepest regards to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0099par0130	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary shall be changed in the framework 5. Article 5275 replaced by Article 19. Article 3. We submit and propose that the statement of the joke be removed from the text and added to the notice. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0100par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0099par0138	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0101par0139	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0099par0140	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0102par0142	Mr. President, lawmakers, this law is being made to look like a law specifically against the right of defense, it's being tried to make it look like a bill, but really, we have, if this government bill were to be defended, there are four counts of substance abuses that we've given to our friends in the opinion that our friends would accept. These were read yesterday, denied without even consideration, not allowed to be discussed under the Civil Code. Now, my dear friends, there are so many violations against the right of defense in this country that there are so many serious violations that there is a practice called secret witness enforcement that has been set up in Article 58. What kind of a weirdo is that this is how he got into our Penal Code, and how it's being implemented by special authority courts, in fact, to humiliate the entire world of the Republic of Turkey? And believe me, we all need to know that we're going to get a lot of convictions at the European Court of Human Rights and that we're going to pay billions of dollars. Now, dear friends, it is said that the secret witness doesn't know who he is, not even the judge and the prosecutor outside the armband. What's a witness business, fellas? Does it matter if the witness doesn't confront the defendant or confront the victim there? If no one's testimony is questioned, is there any hostility, any problem, if they're not questioned as to whether or not there's a problem with the victim or the defendant? We've seen more about these confidential witnesses in the Sledgehammer case and the Ergenekon case. In those cases, Shemdin Sakık -- a person who was in prison as director of the terrorist organization -- was a confidential witness in the case where the most qualified people of the Republic of Turkey were tried, their commanders were tried, scientists were tried, lawmakers were tried, lawmakers were tried. What kind of a country is this where the prisoner, the terrorist, becomes a confidential witness, and people across from him aren't even allowed to ask him questions? Dear friends, I'd like to give you a few examples of the judicial procedure in the special authority court: the number of lawyers is limited to three, even though they have no legal basis. Our fellow lawyers are limited to 15 minutes, and the witnesses who are being heard are forbidden to even ask questions. On December 13th, we actually had an incident when the defendants and the lawyers wanted to make a statement in court. Our friends, our lawyer friends, wanted to take words against the documents that came in, although the court committee refused to make any promises, and our friend who wanted to make a promise was removed from the courtroom, Robocop Τs arrived; and then, because he was 50 MPs, they had to make a promise to our friends, but immediately after that, an investigation into our friends was launched in the hearing the following day. The point of the investigation is this: I would like to take a statement, and I would like to make a statement against the documents that have come in. Is such a defence mechanism possible? Where's the right to defend? Is there any right to defend this country? The defense is requested to be destroyed. Just as the independence of the judiciary has been destroyed, the defence is also wanted to be destroyed. I also want to say that Sevki Kulkuloğlu is not here. Sevki Kulkuloğlu lost relatives. I really resent the fact that this is political material here. So we've never said yes about that law, about setting up those fascists in the third package of judgments, the ones that killed hundreds of people, the fascists, to be set free like that. From here, Mosa Pine now, she's not here -- she gave a very emotional speech. We take care of our past, and we take care of our friends and comrades, and we never compromise. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0103par0149	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: This is the framework of the Penal Code of 365 rows and the Execution of Penalty and Security Protections. We propose and propose that the article (3) be replaced by the article (3) (a) and (b) by the three hours (a). Celal Adan Oktay Özturk Adnan Saşik Ugly S. Nevzat Korkmaz Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 3rd joke added by Article 6 of the 1/708 law bill "in three months" in "a month"; "b" in two months in which the expression "b" is included. Pervin Buldan Secret Murat Sakık Bozlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework 6 of the draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security measures. Article 5275 replaced by Article 51. Article 2. And 4. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. This clause also applies to juvenile prisoners and prisoners. The rules and conditions for the use of these awards are taken into consideration of the forms of crime, according to the procedures and fundamentals of the reward system. In case of complaint and objection to the awarding decisions, the Penal Code No. 4675 shall be carried out. Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0104par0174	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0103par0175	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0105par0176	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0103par0177	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0106par0178	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on our motion to change the Law on Penal Code 365 rows and the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures on Article 6 of the Law. I salute you. The goal of our proposal is to avoid pleasure in the reward system. If the reward system is abused, it will be appropriate and correct to open this issue to judicial control. That's the point of the motion, I want to make it brief. My dear friends, this bill is a critical, crucial provision for the future of Turkey's Republic of Turkey. Our friends insisted, but nothing changes. The AKP is covering its ears with all these voices, doing its best not to hear any more voices. This bill is an example. A 15-point bill that changes two laws is somehow brought in as the basic law because it's asked not to be spoken, not to be heard, not to understand. I just told you, it's a very critical step; right now, the project for the collapse of the republic is in effect. In Oslo, the infrastructure of creating a separate nation in our country was accepted. The state law has been passed. Now it's time to break up the language union in the country. Using the sanctity of the right to defend, it is intended to pierce the principle of the Lausanne Agreement, which constitutes the foundations of the Republic of Turkey, and of the Constitution. The dissolution of the language union in the courts is a serious constitutional violation of the country's future and unity to make it Yugoslav. Today in Turkey, all speak their native language with honor. My dear friends, look, the concepts such as Ataturk, the Republic of Turkey have been removed from the law. With this arrangement, the word "Turkish" is also removed from CMUK. That's a very serious violation. The violation of the right of defence today does not include other institutions using state-owned rights on other grounds. Applying the law is the main duty of the courts. It is part of a specific plan to allow the courts to be dragged into the process, without taking any legal action, without taking any steps to solve the problem, and to move the work to the point where Turkey's sovereignty issue is broken. This plan, as I said, is the plan prepared in Oslo, which is on the table during talks with the Imralı today. For 90 years, those who don't know Turkish enough have been judged by the interpreter. Not a single one of the million sentences has returned from the ECHR. If Turkey is to continue its course as a modern, strong, and honorable country, it will be able to do so by maintaining the basic qualities of the republic, by maintaining language unity, homeland unity, and purpose unity. We have no place to go by turning the Republic upside down. This bill is a public service in another language, a key to opening the way to education in another language, but these are steps to divide and break Turkey up. We need to defend integration, not dissolution. My dear friends, the United States thinker Arthur Schlesinger, in his work, The Disruption of the Union of America, make the unbiased public institutions that are concerned about the importance of being the only official language, cannot be established if the official language is not the only one, a common public opinion cannot be formed. So he says, if you don't have common values, if you don't have common goals, your destination is destruction. This bill lays a stone on the road to destruction. Therefore, I strongly reject this arrangement against the Constitution, against the integrity of the country, against its unity. My dear friends, let me finally say, Mr. AKP is cooperating with the BDP on this matter, and is seeking to deceive the public, claiming he is fighting the PKK. We want the attention of our people on this. Our Kurdish citizens are always welcome, but if the integrity of the country is torn apart, it will bring a great deal of destruction to the country.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0107par0186	We don't want to be on top of your head, we know where we are.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0106par0187	I give all of you this feeling of respect.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0108par0189	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third joke added by Article 6/708 of the law bill "in a month" in the "three months" in the "a" column; the "b" in the "two months" in the "findays" in the "b" column. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0109par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0108par0197	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0110par0198	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0108par0199	It's Iron Steel, Mud MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0111par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 6th Amendment of Law Proposal 365. I salute you with respect and love. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are concerned about the 6th article, more about child prisoners, their basic human rights claim. To present to him as a reward for a lack of parental affection, a lack of primary affection with one part of being a child, is to separate the existing prisoners from the state and the judiciary, subjecting the good children to a treatment at the point of bad children. It's unfair in that way, and it's also a violation of human rights and freedom. In this sense, rather than the reward system, it is the basis of our proposal to restore the law to a framework of fundamental human rights, which is based on human beings. With this proposal, it is possible to see the mental blur present in both the law itself and its substances. Mr. President, it is the duty of the House to make legal and constitutional changes that respond to the needs of community dynamics. When parliament approaches the problem of the captivity of the mindset and the sanctity of logic instead of the needs of society, it causes a political crisis unless it meets the needs of society in harmony with universal law on historical and legitimate ground. Therefore, it is an expression of the insurmountability of the fascist junta regime, which has been imposed on us thirty-one years before the common will of the five generals, which we criticised, who had been subjected to our rights to being human, to being non-profitable substances, to being non-human, to being non-committed from society, when we could open the way for public use of a sacred right -- especially on the sanctity of the mother tongue. On the contrary, we will say that we are against military custody when it is the duty of the House to tear down this insane shirt that we are clothed with, to create a more democratic, legitimate constitution and law, to say that we are against military dictatorships, to say that there is no other guardianship above the House, but we will hold the rights of a part of the community, by taking the rights of a part of the community, by taking the right to give and give to freedom. It's not human, it's not conscientious. However, while the Kurds you say have lived together for a thousand years have expressed the will to live together in a democratic common country, the sovereignty of democratic common country can be debated, depending on the principle of the historical development of globalisation, when it is not at a point that debates the administrative, financial, political sharing of sovereignty. We're all in need of strengthening administrative, financial autonomy, local governments. We're going to act on more unity, more integrity, a political project, with autonomous municipalities, democratic governments, regional governments with autonomy and political autonomy, not disintegration, but more unity with solution projects that fit our multi-identity multicultural reality. So instead of anxiety and fear, instead of some of the fears that come out of the mind, it is in itself to insist that we continue with a monotheistic mentality that has already wanted to shape us for 90 years. So it's the human values of today and our age to see the truth in all its nakedness, to reveal it, and to approach the problem with the light of a parameter that can answer the political, cultural, and social needs of this truth. This human value, whether to Kurd, Arab, or Turk, is provided for by human beings as well as by their basic human needs. In this way, in a place of democratic politics such as the House itself, it is our duty to develop the mother tongue of a people we call brothers, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0112par0205	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. This is the framework of the Penal Code of 365 rows and the Execution of Penalty and Security Protections. We propose and propose that the article (3) be replaced by the article (3) (a) and (b) by the three hours (a). Adnan Safik Ugly (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0113par0212	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0112par0213	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0114par0214	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0112par0215	It's Sefik Ugly, Hatay MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0115par0217	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The basis of this law, as it is known, is to open the door to recognition of a sovereignty in the main language of this amendment, the bill. In fact, to us, at least in my opinion, this is more dangerous than what we call the Metropolitan Law, which we call the great poison. I mean, in a way, when you fall out of power one day or you have to become a ruling partner, they can be repaired, but this change can't be fixed. It's obvious that it's political. So no one's fooling anyone. Those who want it also accept it and even say it is not enough. And while you're bringing it in, you're making some negotiations. So you bring in a law so full of freaks that even the defendants who impose defense in the native language can only divide by their money. You're making him pay for it. If he's got the money, he can be a separatist, or he won't be able to, even here, there's no justice. Dear lawmakers, if we're talking about the sanctity of the right to defend, there are some generals in Silivri today, they have lawyers, they insist that their rights of defence are restricted. So, if we're talking about the sanctity of the right to defend against a divisive set of demands, we're all curious as to when the sanctity of this right to defend will be applied to the precious generals of the Turkish Armed Forces. I mean, if there's justice for everything, there should be justice for it, and there shouldn't be self-defense. Dear lawmakers, in addition to this, I'd like to address a few sentences from a female MP who spoke on this stand yesterday. A member of the BDP, who supports this law, says: "We allied in Malazgirt, the Ringer, and Lauzan, and after that -- this is the last and fourth chance. If you do not take this chance, the child will remain a people. Now, look, when we came to Anatolia, there was only one state, Byzantine. We destroyed Byzantine, and we destroyed no one's state. We fought against Byzantine. Our Kurdish brothers and Armenian brothers have guided us, and helped us, these are historical truths, but together, we fought to stop this persecution in the sense that we could save both from the tyranny of Byzantines. So, now, let's take a look at the Ringer, and in the Ringer -- our historians know much better, not my place, but among the people we rescued from Shah Ismail, were our Kurdish brothers. These were our brothers yesterday, and they became our relatives today. It's not an alliance, it's a union of hearts, and we're happy with that. But if other alliances are being sought under these circumstances, or if this nation is being accused of racism, I'd like to point out here that we're not going to accept it. We're not racists. If we were racists, people wouldn't have lived so many, a thousand years in this geography. Please, no more injustices and no more pride and pride. Dear friends, I'd like to remind you of 1991. There were Kurdish brothers, relatives, who fled the persecution of Saddam. We opened the door to them, we split the bread. We also asked the world governments for help there. Madame Mitterrand came -- she was the guardian of the PKK -- and she examined 12 of our brothers, as far as I know, with the doctor, to take them to Europe, where she received a solid report. If an alliance is being sought, or the people you're allianceing with right now, that's an important example. Alhamdulillah we are Muslims, we are relatives, we are brothers. Please, this is the way to think about and discuss these arguments. It's better not to draw the matter away. I give you all my regards, my love. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0116par0227	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to its votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: 7th Amendment on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of Penalty and Security Measures. After the declaration of the child in the article, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration that cannot be paid. Celal Adan S. Nevzat Unafraid Reşat Right Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the framework 7 of the draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of Criminal and Security measures. Article 5275 replaced by Article 54. We propose and propose that the sentence added to the first joke of the clause be changed as follows. This joke (b) does not apply in terms of children and in need of prisoners. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0117par0245	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0116par0246	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0118par0247	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0116par0248	Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0119par0250	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, the Commission did not agree with our motion, nor did the government. Why didn't you join us? I don't know if you're aware of what this motion contains. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commissioner, please tell me what we suggested and what you refused. I'm sure you don't. So what did you deny? That, dear MPs, is how it works. You know what we suggested? Look, according to Article 54 of the Penal Code, when a person asks for a transfer, he must deposit his fee in another prison according to the current arrangement. Sir, this provision does not apply to children. So we say that's not the way it works with the needy. It's a very humane, decent arrangement. So? Why didn't you join us? You don't know, you don't know. Because the opposition has made a motion. Look, we're constructive opposition, we're supporting you. Congressmans, I have a request from you: the Commission and the government did not attend, so accept. Believe me, Mr. Prime Minister appreciates you, brushes your friends. Because either the needy person, sixty years old, disabled, disabled... sir, the Karsian citizen has been captured in Istanbul, wants to go to his hometown. He says, "Let me lie there and do my time." No, put the money down. I don't have money. You can't go. Let your family come and see you. Well, his family doesn't have any money! We say that they should go there, and the state should pay for it. I mean, here's the problem, so whatever it is that's coming from the opposition, we refuse. Why do you refuse? Why don't you join us? The constructive opposition... so please accept this, truly accept this motion, and tomorrow say, "Look, we accept the useful, constructive motions of the opposition. Yeah, I'm afraid that's not... Dear friends, the government has not joined our motion, the Commission has not joined, I hope the General Assembly will join. Let me tell you something else: today there are very serious issues with the right to defend our country. So it's not just a question of what language people will defend, it's very simple, it's an ordinary problem, it's a much bigger problem with defence. So the government who brought this up, the BDP Group, who backed this up again, knows, especially the BDP Group, that a lot of lawyers are under arrest today at the KCK arrests. So against the law of the law, their offices were searched, their doors were broken. The last to pass are members of the Society of Modern Lawyers, a member of the Society of Modern Lawists, and your former member of the group, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahçakılı. There are a lot of problems right now in the defence-related country, so not this one, just look, in this country, Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, Sunni, everyone is brothers. It's divisive, we condemn them with violence, hatred, that separates them, divides society, and does politics through these ethnic and religious identities. No need, we are one, we are one. So that's all we've got left, but you're Kurdish, you're Turkish, Alevisin, Sunnisin, let's split it into shreds. Don't do it, don't do it. So this place, the resources of this country, the resources of this country are enough for everyone, so let's live in peace. Sir, let's give everyone what they deserve on the basis of human rights, equal citizenship, and let's be fair. It's your duty to create such a climate, such an environment, as a power. So today, a friend of yours, who was off the agenda, said something without a name. Yes, and I say that I condemn those who divide society by their identity, by their religious beliefs, by their politics in this country. I'm just saying, God willing, he'll send people like this from the start of this country as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0120par0259	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Penal Code 365 rows and the 7th Amendment bill on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures. After the declaration of the child in the article, we offer and offer the addition of the declaration that cannot be paid. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0121par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0120par0267	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0122par0268	Mr. President, I'd appreciate it if you'd allow me to make a statement -- necessary -- since both the previous motion and the motion are of the same nature. In Article 54 of the Penal Code, the transport shall be carried out on its own terms. The (1)th joke is that the government can be transferred to institutions other than the institution where they are of their own free will; a) The institutions they want to go to have a petition for at least three locations in their condition, B) The fact that they agreed to pay the transfer costs in advance, C) There is less than five months of conditional release, D) Their well-being, not being disciplined or removed... and continuing, some conditions are running and transplants are on demand, the person who pays the price for the transfer. Now, with this arrangement, there's an exception to that for the children. The child's transfer costs, sir, will be paid by the Treasury, but if there are victims, if there are those who need them, then the transfer costs are paid by social welfare funds. That's why we can't agree to this motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0123par0275	Sir, why do you leave it to social welfare, Mr. Secretary? That's the government's source. Well, let's face it. Social welfare is the government's source. I mean, if you knew, you'd have accepted it. Neither your bureaucrats nor the people sitting next to you are giving you any information, Mr. Secretary. It's very simple...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0124par0276	Thank you. Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0125par0278	Mr. Reşat Right...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0124par0279	...Rashat Right, Slap Congressman.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0126par0281	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 7 of the Law Bill 365. I salute the High Council. Of course, we accept the others, except for the first two articles of Bill 365. They are things that come in accordance with the will of the people, but we don't accept the first two articles because they are not about the will of the people, but about the compulsion of the people, and we oppose them. The motion that we have submitted is about the better processing of the 7th article and the addition of the description of children who cannot afford to pay at this point, which is the minimum. Congressmans, in this 11-year-old AKP administration, many of our country's issues have been unresolved, complicated, and inextricably positioned. Most importantly, the PKK is the problem with terrorism and separatism. In 2002, a PKK terrorist organization, which had almost reached its stage of halt and extinction, took distances it could not have imagined during this time period. First, the PKK wanted the identity problem accepted, and then the state-owned television was asked to be established in the main language, the universities were opened, and this was also successful. The right to be judged in the language is now taking a very important distance. A primary language trial is not an arrangement for the need to be judged. The questions we asked the Minister yesterday didn't give us much of an acceptable answer anyway. The PKK is an imposition to the AKP. And with the AKP plus the BDP alliance, we're taking out this law, this stuff. However, the right to judge in the main language of this issue, which should not be forgotten, is against the Constitution, because it is indivisible with the State of Turkey, its country and its nation in Article 3 of the Constitution. His language is Turkish. He has a command order. Of course, you ask yourself, in a way, what's the next step? Of course we know that. The next stage will be federation, autonomy, and then, even if they don't say it themselves, Turkey's division and independence. Members of parliament, Turkey's issues are very big, but the government makes difficult diagnostics and detection errors. How far will this go? What must not be forgotten is that this country has not easily become a homeland. How will our mothers' tears be asked to keep their martyr blood on the ground? The bones of our martyrs are aching. In the past, we've been burned to death together as the members of the terrorist organization entered our country as a hero at Habur Border Gate. We are now facing another issue as a result of surrender to the PKK terrorist organization before his account has been asked. Wrongs go on and on. When will the setting, setting, setting, and setting up for these wrongs end? ▪ Untouchables must be removed. The death penalty must be returned. Everyone and everyone must see where it came from when it was called. Members of lawmakers, the points that come when it is said that good things are going to happen are very thought - inspiring. Terror has risen, our brotherhood has been severely damaged; negotiations with killer Apo continue; PKK demands are coming to one place; furnaces continue to darken, and cries continue to rise. This whole thing is upsetting our nation, leading to pessimism. It is now necessary to end ethnically-based separatism. In the common denominator of the Turkish nation, in the common ground of the Turkish homeland, under the roof of Turkey, there must be no retreat, no retreat, no retreat, from living together the day after tomorrow, with all those seeking and seeking. Members of parliament, those who want to destroy the Ottoman Empire yesterday want to destroy the Republic of Turkey today. The unfinished accounts of Sevr are almost complete by the power that represents the national will on its own for ten years with the collapse and dissolution programmes. The Turkish nation is trying to be purged by poisoning digestire. Today, tyrants, separatists, traitors attack all kinds of values in solidarity with the great Turkish nation, but who can destroy your province and ceremony unless the great Turkish ruler Oğuz Khan, who should not be forgotten, is marked by history centuries ago, unless the heavens fall down below, unless the ground is breached? No one should aspire, the nationalist Movement Party, the archipelago and the Turkish nationalists we will not divide this paradise country, which will not change the union and resurrection of the great Turkish nation to anyone.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0127par0291	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the Grand National Assembly The draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary has been changed in the framework 8. Article 5275 replaced by Article 58. We propose and propose the addition of "for no right reason" to the third clause of the article, following the declaration of "needs to enter." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Bkent Tezcan Turgut Dibek Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Levent Gök 8th Amendment on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of Penalty and Security Protection. We offer and propose that the terms of the article shall be changed into eight hours. Celal Adan S. Nevzat Don't Fear Enver Erdem Mehmet Erdoğan Oktay Özturk Mustafa Erdem To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey To come after the final sentence of the 3rd sentence replaced by 8th article of the law bill 1/708, the costs and bodily needs of its government are provided by the institution. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration. Secret by Sakık Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Murat Bozlak Halil Aksoy Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0128par0314	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0127par0315	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0129par0316	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0127par0317	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0130par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a covenant with you on the 8th Amendment, and I salute your delegation. I must point out that it is not right to constantly reflect this draft bill in the form of a joint work by the AKP-BDP. As BDP, we have repeatedly expressed the issues that we disagree with about the law, that we find lacking, that need to be corrected, and yet there is a persistent attempt to give such an image. We have repeatedly stated that it is correct to have the defence brought here as a bill of law in this native language to be subject to a full investigation and prosecution in both the talks we've had at the commission meeting and the talks here. We have repeatedly stated that the case of the accused who was interrupted in connection with the interpreter is the right to defend himself. It's not right, as a BDP, to keep coming over something that we find inadequate, something that has to be handled, and trying to create a different perception. What we care about is that there's a debate about the new process in the country. There is a expectation of peace, a expectation of hope for the whole community, and there is an expectation of how to solve the problem that exists within the framework of this concrete step, what can be done, what can be done in this parliament about the stopping of blood flowing, what can be done about the tears of the mothers. We especially find this new process inadequate, but we care about the discussion of the relevant clause of the law, and certainly the removal of its shortcomings in later times, to see if there will be an arrangement, a intent, an arrangement that will pave the way for a different concrete step. Therefore, the attitude of the BDP is needed to be clear. On the other hand, this relevant substance is bringing in arrangements for the transfer of child prisoners. There's no way we're going to deal with these motions about these juvenile prisoners. Look, the number of children convicted in 2006 is 14, only 14. After that, you brought the Anti-Terror Law. Within four years of the Anti-Terror Law, in 2010, the number of imprisoned children increased to 1,023. In 2012, it increased by 100 percent again, up to 2,206. So there's a counterterrorism law that's the source of the current problems that puts the concept of a child in political detention into the world's legal literature. We saw these children in Posanti Prison with the closest example of what inhumane treatments they were subjected to. I don't believe that any lawmakers who have no conscience, no shame on their humanity, who are not bothered about it are under the roof of this House. Therefore, there must be a comprehensive arrangement for both the defence in the main language and the child criminals in this political prisoner. On the other hand, a speaker who just spoke here tried to say something about Turkish nationalism, referring to some individuals, especially to my constituency. Now, he used Yado Pasha, saying something about Yado Pasha's grandson. Yado Pasha is an important figure in the Azadi organization, which has rebelled against the policies that make everyone Turkish. He was the commander of the Elaziğ Palu region. As a result of his resistance, the government has placed a bounty on his head. I'm not just going to explain how Yado Pasha's wife died, you can come and read it from here; you can study it, you can see how unfair it is to present Yado Pasha here through Turkish nationalism. After sheikh Sait's resistance, Yado Pasha went to Syria, which is called the "Binhat" (the Syrian Empire). He was actively involved in Hoybun's work in the Syrian Kurdistan Workers' Party. So it's not right to make such an assessment through Yado Pasha. As for reviewing the grandkids, it's a state policy. It's a policy that exists from the founding of the republic to this day, to hang the rebel and integrate the grandchildren into the system. So when you look at the relationship between the descendants of Zakteli Hadji Sadık, Faki Hassan, and Sheikh Sait, who were hanged not only by Yado Pasha's grandson, but by the will courts, you understand what I want to say. On the other hand, a congressman... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I have a moment, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0131par0329	You know, we don't give out on our app, Mr. Baluken, please...
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0130par0330	Well, for the record, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0131par0331	It's going on the record, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0130par0332	There's also been an original assessment of a congressman's rhetoric. The MP mentioned is the same village as me, from the same tribe. So until today, you've tried to make it a single, a Turk, so don't start anything new on the origins any more. This isn't politics. I'm willing to discuss it on any platform you want. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0131par0335	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 8th Amendment on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of Penalty and Security Protection. We offer and propose that the terms of the article shall be changed into eight hours. Mustafa Erdem (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0132par0342	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0131par0343	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0133par0344	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0131par0345	Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0134par0347	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 8th Amendment. I salute you all. However, when we can combine, fuse, integrate, divide, divide, separate, we are engaged in a weakness, and we use the great Turkish Parliament of the Great National Assembly to this feeling, this temptation, or this division. The moral values of the Turkish nation, human values, religious values, are in favor of unification, fusion, and sharing. If we've had honor in history, if we've had the highest value of teaching humanity what civilization is, we need to look for it in the cultural coordinates that we have. When our dear Prophet went to the Madinah, he made the Ensar and the Emigrant a brother. In the Qur'an of Almighty God, the House of Imran remembers that the division, the division of us together, led us to divide, destroy us, but it was a joy and a means of salvation for all of us. Dear lawmakers, no matter how much you hide it, no matter how many different tools and equipment you use, those who have just said that this law is the law of defence in the main language, or that it will give them some opportunity to discriminate. Come, at least tell the truth as others do, and let the Turkish nation see who serves whom, who shares the role. I came from Sudan two days ago. When Sudan was one of the largest countries in Africa, the South Sudan was divided today, and now they are both doomed to hunger and misery. In the Darfur region, people have somehow developed a desire to be hostile and kill thousands of their brothers, despite their being part of the same religion, the same origin. We visited an orphanage. They are members of this honored Turkish nation who claim the trust of your brother killing his brother. Then I would like to remind you of a fact: Come, let us not try to cover up the truth, but come, let us try to unite and mingle in some way. The result of these policies puts our Kurdish brothers and sisters to trial, and the Quran says persecution is worse than killing. In a study conducted by Mersin University, there was an important marriage between Kurds and Turks, and today the proportion of marriage between Kurds and Turks has dropped to zero in Turkey as a result of the PKK plague and AKP's co-operation with the BDP. Then, come, let's do what we have to do to unite it. The games played by the West on Turkey are obvious, and it is clear who served and supported the PKK. You've seen how the French government supports the events in Paris, and if the Prime Minister tells the President of France, why are you involved? Why do we still have the support of who is supported by who, and why can we allow a division, a contrast? Dear lawmakers, in a way, our country sees that in itself, as well as its historical, social, cultural, and ethnic values, it has been fused from yesterday to today and become a whole, I would like to express my regret on the behalf of the High Assembly, as those who have an account on the historical values of this land, those who need to be accounted for by the Turkish nation, and those who have to be accounted for by its ecclesiastically, and those who can't reach this goal except divide and tear it apart. I would like to point out that unless you enter a nation, no enemies can enter a nation. The heart can't digest him if he hits a crowd. Come, let us all work together to exalt this nation, and, if necessary, let us join hands with the enemy, with the heart, to teach him his place, and give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0135par0358	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The draft law on the execution of Penal Code 365 rows and the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary has been changed in the framework 8. Article 5275 replaced by Article 58. The article must enter into the third joke, and we offer and submit the declaration for the right reason to come after the declaration. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0136par0365	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0135par0366	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0137par0367	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0135par0368	Levent Gök, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0138par0369	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 365-line bill we're discussing. I salute you all with love and respect. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, transfers to children's education homes are taken into the custody of the institution's officer. Transactions to open penal institutions are carried out without an institutional worker. In this case, the prisoner must enter an open criminal execution institution in which he has been transferred within the same province, within the same day, during which transports between criminal execution institutions in different counties would not exceed 48 hours. At the appointed time, the terms of desertions are carried out against prisoners who do not enter an open prison execution institution. We have submitted our motion to the article, "For no right reason." We thought it appropriate to add the declaration. We think that if we can afford to not surrender to the criminal execution institution in a very heavy and absolute way, with a strong cause and a result, such as an escape, it will bring severe consequences for child prisoners. Therefore, we think our proposal is perfectly reasonable and reasonable. At least it could have been an accident, or it could have been a very sudden disturbance, a very serious problem that someone couldn't document at the time, but it really did happen to him. For no right reason. When we added the declaration, when faced with situations like this, at least we wanted to bring in a device where we could protect the child prisoners in a way that will not result in an escape. It's extremely human, we think it's perfectly reasonable, our proposal. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't actually implement a lot of changes in the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, or the Execution of Punishment and Security Protection. I think that's what's really troubling. Even though it's written in the law, even though it's written in the laws of execution or in the laws of criminal judgment, we've seen a lot of issues not apply. In the morning, we had a press conference with the former President-General of the Society of Modern Lawyers -- who served as President before he was arrested. On January 18th -- as you know -- many lawyers were detained during an operation against the Association of Modern Lawmakers in Ankara, İstanbul (Islamic) and elsewhere. I've been overseeing house calls in part of these detentions as a member of the Society of Modern Lawyers. The search at the home of the President of the Society of Modern Lawyers has been made into a list of forbidden books found in almost all of our homes -- books found in my personal library -- my dear friends. From a Communist Manifesto, magazines containing the evaluations of other revolutionary leaders were collected, and they were unfortunately taken by the prosecutor to the prosecutor's office under the name of a list of books that were illegal against our warning. My dear friends, I consider it a duty to remind you of this typical event in our penal code, in our penal code, and in the penal code, that we do not apply many important provisions. In an operation that took place that day in Turkey on January 18th, there was now an environment in which lawyers, a key suspect of justice, and lawyers, would no longer seek their rights on legitimate platforms. The doors to their homes are almost broken with bulldozers, my dear friends. The houses they call steel doors are all lies; none of them have steel doors; 110 square meters were broken into by police. There should be a representative of the bar next to the lawyers, but none of these conditions have been met. All of this has not been fulfilled in the penal code, even though it was written in the penal code. We now think we're developing democracy or human rights in Turkey by changing the penal code, and we're doing it wrong. It is the duty of all of us to get rid of these wrongs, and if we do our duty by applying the articles written in the law first, I think we can bring much more useful results to Turkey, but justice is now beginning to smell. I say that there are practices to make us say. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2013-01-24sit03spe0139par0376	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
