tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government can answer in 20 minutes if they want. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi (Ağrım Çelebi) who wants to talk about the establishment of the State's Office, the Court of State and Executive Judiciary Week. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0002par0011	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak off-the-book due to the District Attorney's 145th anniversary and Executive Judiciary Week. I hereby salute your high council. It was founded in 1868 under the name of Şura-yı State and served for fifty-four years in the Ottoman era, and on 4 November 1922 all central institutions in Istanbul ended their activities when they took over the administration of the Turkish Grand National Assembly government, and began working with Law 669 in the Republic of the Republic on 6 July 1927. Today, the Court of State was organized according to the 2575th Law, which took effect in 1982. According to this law, the Court consists of 15 apartments, 14 cases, 1 administrative. The prosecution is the basis of social order in the state of law, the basis of economic and social development, the guarantee of individual rights and freedoms. In particular, Turkey has entered a multi-dimensional development process, along with reforms in the areas of economic, democracy and law during the period of EC PARTY governments in particular. His reputation in his territory and in the world is even higher in that sense. The entire judiciary is in charge of very important tasks. Each of these meets the requirements of an unprovoked justice for society. However, an important administrative judiciary is carrying out its legal function because the Court and administrative judiciary have tried to meet the demands of its rightful owners in the face of the great power called administration. The understanding of the legal state plays an important role in the rise of the state's justice, as it grows more and more radically every day. In particular, the Court has experienced serious changes in recent years. Some reformal changes have been made in both law and human resources. The prosecution has enabled the National Judicial Network to conduct integration with the Information System and the State Department's operations on UYAP. In this way, the decision-making capacity of the Supreme Court and the Court of State in particular has been increased further. After increasing the number of members in the court, the work began as a double delegation. With this application, the number of file releases has been greatly increased. In particular, as of 2013, 205,045 troubled cases are currently available. The number of files released in 2012 is 140,000 in 2011, 110 in 2011, 99 in 2010, 101 in 2009, 91,000 in 2008, and I want to transfer the latest 2005 in 2008, 64 grand. Thus, files as large as the total number of files that came to the State in 2013 are examined and sent to their locations. Mr. President, the Supreme Court consists of 150 members and 295 students and 33 prosecutors. It also serves with 618 staff members, including the general administrative services class. In particular, during the AK PARTY administrations, a building opened in 2012 was presented to the State of the United States in European standards. In this sense, the State Department is currently serving there in a very delightful way. Of course, Turkey is decisively carrying out democratic and legal reforms with our government. In particular, after the prosecution, what did our esteemed governments do to Ağrı? In 2008, our judicial governments built a very beautiful private building for Ağar. In 2012, we also had to apply for 30 apartments to the TOKIEST to satisfy the needs of the judge and our republic's prosecutors in Ağrı. On 2/1/2012, a forensic branch office was established and currently operates. You know, the district of Patnos of Ağrı has been in the district of Ercish, from the judiciary for years. The Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors has won the title of a severe criminal court by its decree dated 20/3/2013, published in the Official Journal of 9/4/2013, and has been appointed a chief prosecutor and the chair of the criminal court. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ghaziantep MP Ali Serindağ (Ghanlıurfa Akçakale Border Gate). Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of law, I salute your grand delegation. As you know -- I mentioned a little bit in the evening -- at the General Assembly meeting -- on Thursday (May 2nd) there was an incident in the Akchakale district of Şanlıurfa, Akchakale Kara Hudut Gate, which we did not approve of. Turkey has been raided by a group called the Free Syrian Army, a group called the Free Syrian Army, which has been assisting in supply of weapons, providing all kinds of logistical support, providing all kinds of organizational opportunities and supporting terrorist elements in the world arena, which unfortunately has been martyred by our black border door and a police officer. A policeman has been martyred, the Turkish flag has been dropped, our flag has been burned. Gene, we've been informed that three of our officers have been injured, four of our soldiers injured, including our civilian citizens and customs officers. However, I'm afraid there has been no satisfactory explanation from the government and the government's environments. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I went there on Friday, following the incident. I've talked to the authorities there, I've seen the officers. The officers are agitated, unsure of their safety. Because right next to the border, there's armed groups, unregulated groups, and they're even fighting amongst themselves now and then. Obviously, the officers were told not to talk. They don't want to say anything, but you can see in their eyes that they want to say a lot. I believe they were instructed not to say anything to anyone. We've interviewed the public, and the public is agitated. They're nervous that they've become second-class citizens in their own country. Despite all this, the government has not made a serious and satisfying statement. What did he do? Mr. Prime Minister Kızılcahamam has taken him to Syria and sent curses. Now, we run diplomacy with curses. We regret to see this situation brought about by the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister Kızılcahamam, while the work was roaring, Israeli jets were bombing Syria, and unfortunately, we digested it, and we didn't digest it, and those who digested it. Now, dear friends, the Republican People's Party had said: "We propose a three-step solution. What was one of the steps? One was an international conference meeting. You didn't listen, and now you know what? America and Russia agreed to hold an international conference, inviting both the ruling forces and the opposition to that conference. And what do they say? They say: "The extra elements should be prevented from becoming stronger." So what you're saying is that the groups you're supplying weapons, training, providing all kinds of logistical support should be prevented, and what you're saying is: "Sir, chemical weapons have been used." Look, an independent commission from the United Nations has arrived, has done research. They reported that there were serious indications that these opponents were using chemical weapons. There were no indications that the administration was using chemical weapons. That's where Syrian policy comes in. Look, there's a story here from the newspaper Hurriyet, the Washington reporter. One research agency, including two former U.S. ambassadors to Ankara, says: "Sir, Ankara is a sectarian." What does it say? The 36-page report states that Turkey follows sectarian policies in Syria and identifies with the Muslim Brotherhood. I'm afraid that's where you brought Turkey. Now, dear friends, America and Russia agreed on Syria; North Iraq, Iraq, central administration, Barzani, and Maliki agreed. Now, what were you going to do? You can't do anything. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You couldn't even lift Gaza's blockade. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ali Halaman, the Adana MP who asked about the problems of Adana and its districts. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0006par0044	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you. I have taken an off-the-book promise on Adana and its counties. And thank you, Mr. President, for giving me that opportunity. I salute you all with respect and love. Of course, this is off-the-topsy by saying, "The problems of the island" -- and I'm glad there are some -- but sometimes it may be unpleasant to keep saying it, but in the name of this harvest, it's been torn out of the industry again for the last ten years; it's often gone back to agriculture. Therefore, because of the heat of the summer of Adana, we have the obligation to say what is good, what is bad, what is bad, what is in power, because when we go and visit as if we were to bring your problems to the agenda, you often choose to have such a habit. Now, what I call the harvest period, the age of the wheat... and when the wheat is harvested, when the harvest is harvested, the harvest period begins in Adana, so it sows corn and sows sunflowers. So there's animalism next to agriculture in the central area. Now, within the districts of Adana, two more are related to the harvest period... one is the ovaries. The ovaries were in a town connected to Ceyhan for some political reasons in the past period, but mostly micronationalism was done there. In order to get votes, we're going to make you a county. Thus, it became a place with 18,000 people on the edge of the sea, 6 neighborhoods, 15 villages. People's livelihoods are mostly watermelons, livestock, corn, wheat. Now, ours, this ovary, this side of Alexander, this side of Mersin... has been saying that for years, political parties, those Turkmen children, those Yurks, vote for us, we'll build you a beach road. But so far, it's just... you know, there's no drinking water where there's 20,000 people in winter, but there's at least 50,000 people in the summer. So, although the ovaries are a very private settlement, if we ask any of the MPs or say to a citizen, "Is Adana a city by the sea?" Many people would think, "Is there a sea on the edge of Adana?" But the largest frontier of Adana is the sea border. Until today, there were some social facilities built in the name of the public, and they evacuated them, and their offices were removed, and the government's waterworks were lifted, so the watermelon seller, the shopper, and the trader came from outside, and the person selling watermelons every year waited at the courthouse door, saying, "My money is gone." Therefore, we specifically ask that government officials, ministries, take care of these matters. Two, and there's Imamoglu. This is Imamoglu, the whole area of agriculture, so we built co-ops here, we had animals distributed, we had dairy, we had government housing, they had offices, they had government offices, they had a stream that ran through the middle, they said, "Cebel Creek," they couldn't even fight the fly for ten years. In today's conditions, he says, he is troubled by the heat of the weather, because of the fly. I say this, but if they're going to announce a base price for the harvest season in these counties, let the government explain it, so that they don't let the merchant take over this manufacturer in the middle. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you've been the head of the SEC, you've been the Ministry of Education, and I beg you to listen carefully to what I have to say. It's the Inter-United Council. Date: March 18, 2013, an important date, March 18, 2013. Opening, reading Istiklal Anthem, everyone standing, one not standing, one representative of Istanbul University. Now, we understand very clearly what the AKP government has done to our country. Has anything been done about it? I'm really curious to know if there's been any investigation, any investigations, any procedures that need to be done. I'm asking you this as a political question. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Oh, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Esentepe, İstanbul, 10 of our Aleli citizens woke up on the morning of May 6th, and found signs and death written on the doors of their homes. When locals saw that many houses were marked like this, they immediately reacted by taking a walk and demanded that those who made the markings be caught. Last year, in the same area, Pirsultan Abdal Cultural Association Eagle Division Cemevi and Cultural Center were asked to be cremated by unidentified persons. In the area, the houses where the Alevi lived were also marked. We experienced similar examples in Adıyaman, Aydın, İzmir, and many other cities. It is clear provocation to mark the houses of Alevi and to see the likes of them constantly happening. In this country, Alevi-Sunni, Kurdish-Turkish, wants to create a left-right conflict. What measures do you plan to take as a government to prevent such annoying events from happening? We, the Maltepens, demand the capture of these criminals, the capture of the provocateurs. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0012par0074	Mr. President, thank you. I want to talk about our working class situation. The metal workers in the contract period decided to strike. MESS bosses want to force workers into slavery with an increase of two lira a day. As you know, we've seen the cooperation of the government and a boss who's a scab. The airline workers will now strike for flight safety, not for their rights, social and autonomy rights, but for flight safety on May 15th, and the government is now threatening this strike, especially the Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Labour. Turkish Airlines workers are forced to work under unconstitutional and unhealthy conditions. There were 70 planes, there were 12,600 employees, and now 217 planes wanted to be removed with 13.600 personnel. That's the mentality of understanding that wants to make Turkish Airlines world giants. The ministers' job is not to intervene in the strike; it is the right of the worker to work for the safety of the people. I'm saying we're with Turkish Airlines workers so the new planes don't crash. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0013par0079	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0014par0082	Mr. President, thank you. In the busy hours of last night, the south of Sarıgöl district of Manisa (Shirgöl), Bahar, Bahadir, Kağtaçlı, Çanakçı, Tırazlar and Kırıkca villages reached 90 per cent of the central links, as well as the village of Gökkaya in our Ahmetli district. I say to all the people of Manisa, let it pass, especially to our farmers who are affected by the rain. I expect the authorities to immediately identify the losses caused by the full disaster and conduct a study on how to repair the damage. The incident proved even more important to TARSIM insurance. In order to address the insurance problems in TARSIM, I'm waiting for efforts to encourage our farmers to insure their products, and I'm offering respects.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0016par0088	Mr. President, Minister of Economy Mr. Zafer Çalayan has said that the banks do not reflect the decline in interest on their credits, on the producers, on the consumers, on the COBİ, on the shopkeepers and on the farmer. In addition to taking money under the name of insurance fees, insurance fees, and other expense pens from the loans of our banks who work with unprecedented high-profit rates in the world, it has been decided on the benefit of the consumer by hundreds of different means of exploiting the person in need of credit, other than interest. Like our citizens, members of the government have been complaining for years about the decline in interest from these banks, which don't benefit the citizens enough, which increase their profits with extra expenses. I call upon the government to do its duty properly and take the necessary measures. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. In the first hearings of the trial, which began in İzmir, where its name was publicly known as the military espionage case, there was also an attempt to draw smoke from a place without fire. It appears that the number-two defendant did not use a computer, and he did not recognize nearly 300 other defendants, except one. In this case, it is alleged that a significant portion of the arrested soldiers, arrested officers, petty officers are Alevi and patriotic officers who do not pledge allegiance to power. Again, many guarantees, including geographical ground guarantees, have not been applied to Alevi judges in the judiciary. Where will the flame of power end your hostility? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0019par0097	Mr. Köse, thank you. Mr. Ercoshkun...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. As we live, we remember our Father Izzet Baysal, who received the State Supreme Service Medal, who spent his entire life donating his savings to the land of his birth, making hundreds of facilities in education and health, expressing our gratitude as the father of Bolu. As our longing for you grows more and more, we never forget the ten golden counsels that you have bequeathed to us, along with the legacy you left to your children. Thousands of your children are being educated at your educational institutes. Your medical institutions continue to heal. Requests made by members of the trustees on the road to Izzet Baysal are being closely monitored. In this scope, we closely follow the request of the university of applied sciences for Abant Izzet Baysal, the law school for which Abant Izzet Baysal was asked to be opened, and the request for the university of applied sciences to Seben, the birthplace of our late father Izzet Baysal. Hopefully, we'll get to the bottom of this as soon as possible. As the architect of countless works of Izzet Baysal, with his counsel and principles, he will always preserve his place in the hearts of Izzet Baysal, and...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0021par0105	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been promised to remind you of one thing and to underline the fact that our Home Secretary is also on the Parliamentary General Assembly. Our police officers, our police, are willing to make sacrifices, to perform their duties under difficult circumstances. However, the conditions for working on autonomy rights, working hours, expectations for additional indicators have been made, especially though the prime minister has promised them, and they still haven't been fulfilled. Our previous Home Secretary promised to do so in front of the General Assembly and in front of other public vehicles. We know our Minister has a soft spot for that, too. Our police are very eager and eager to address and resolve their problems, and they are very much in expectation. They engaged in unionisation to address these difficulties. Unfortunately, the cops who wanted to unionize were also fired, and they were subjected to a heavy procedure under the Police Disciplinary Charter. I have been promised to remind the government that there is an expectation for the solution to these problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Every day there are problems with prisons, and almost every day there are reports of prisons in writing and visual media. Among prison problems, the most significant issue is the issue of sick prisoners. In a statement issued by Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin, the number of heavily ill prisoners is 416. According to Human Rights Association data, there are 266 heavy-duty prisoners. Again, according to IHD data, 31 prisoners died in prison in 2011. The number of people who lost their lives in prison was identified as 161 in 2010. Different numbers are found in other sources. It's not clear whether the information released by the Justice Department is based on any research. The reports of institutions such as the IHD and the CHD are based on applications made to them, and the hospital, along with its forensic reports, provides information about the patient and the prison in which he resides. However, there is a twofold difference between the number explained by the ministry and the number given by the organisations. The number of people who were sick and lost their lives in prison is a remarkable subject, but there is no official investigation into the matter. However, in order for a matter to be resolved, deep study and detailed and objective knowledge are vital. Moving quickly to access the necessary information and documents will be the first and most important step in preventing further casualties. A significant part of the sick prisoners are difficult to treat in prison conditions, while some diseases are said to be effective in the emergence and progress of prison conditions. Reports presented by the Turkish Medical Association and the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures indicate that prisons physically affect human health. In addition, reports from many different institutions indicate that a level of isolation in F-type prisons has triggered many diseases that have negative effects on prisoners. The treatment of heavily ill prisoners continues as a serious problem, while health care in prisons is inadequate and slow. The services provided by family physicians during the few days of the week are thought to be insufficient, without regular doctors in many prisons. The number of deaths and sick prisoners in prisons appears not only in the national area, but also internationally, as a problem for our country. In order to determine the number of sick and heavily ill prisoners who remain in prison, to examine the conditions of prison in terms of health, to determine the appropriate solutions for treatment of sick prisoners and to be treated for treatment and if necessary, to determine the ways of solutions, we would like to propose and establish Parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter. 27/02/2012 [[Malatya]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 6) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 7) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] 13) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] 19) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The use of energy resources is important in our country as it is in the whole world. According to State Water Affairs General Directorate data, 1.4 million hectares of Turkey's facial measurements are composed of natural lakes and dam lakes. Electric energy consumption is used in all areas of life because it reaches large masses and is transformed into other forms of energy when needed. When hydroelectric energy production is not used for imports, the energy obtained at these facilities is considered domestically and is partially renovable energy sources in terms of the construction property of the facility. Energy productions related to renewable resources reduce external dependence in the field of energy, while contributing to reducing their negativity in processes such as climate change. One of the most affected natural resources in climate change is water. Since water is essential to life, it must be very careful and sensitive to the use of water or to change its condition. The use of water must be essential to maintaining water's regeneration capacity. In recent years, increasing pressure on human-based impacts on climate change has increased the orientation of renewable energy sources and has raised incentives for investment. Especially in recent years, HES projects have not created a significant value in completing the need for energy, but have brought with it many ecological and cultural problems. Recent regulations point to the demands of capital rather than the continuation of ecological and cultural life. As with other energy sources and energy services, the first and most important step in the release of hydraulic energy into free market conditions was by the Law on Electrical Production, Message, Distribution and Trade of Institutions outside Turkey. The process, however, has been much more problematic with Electric Market Law 4628, and has had negative effects on HES. Almost every part of every stream in our country has been divided into parts for HES. IT is wrong to consider HESEs at the level of projects related only to energy purposes. IN THE construction of HESES, the stream basins should be considered as a whole, and the water regimes should be considered, and the water and land ecosystem properties in the basin should be evaluated, and most importantly, it is important to allow water to regenerate itself. There are 2,000 HES in the planning phase throughout Turkey. When these plans are made, we will get rid of external dependency in energy. But with HES projects, our water is given to multinational companies. Thus, the rhetoric that our country will be free of external addiction in energy does not reflect the truth. THE construction of HES shows that locals, flora and fauna's needs for water are not monitored, that life water is given in very little amounts or never released. The HES structures have total lack of control from the project stage to the construction stage. At the point of maintaining public resources, science and engineering requirements, the audit must be carried out with a priority of social benefits. CED reports are also important in making HES. The fact that a CED report for some HES matches one-on-one on another HES project shows that this process is becoming ordinary. A number of CED reports have been cancelled, stressing that the CED process conducted in court resolutions in HES projects is no more than a formality, and that HES projects have caused irreversible damage to natural habitats. Bolu is a city covered in forests, surrounded by green and blue. Bolu has eight nature parks, one nature preserve. Bolu and its surroundings are numbered, covered by Turkey's most beautiful forests. It's clear how important nature is to Bolu. In Bolu, two HES, including Kayabük and Pasha, are now in Mengen, starting to produce electricity. In addition, there are projects in Seben, which continue to be built, including Celtikdere and Cevezlidere HES. There are 20 other HES projects planned in Bolu districts. In accordance with these ideas, we propose and establish and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the damage done to nature by HES, who are in the process of building and planning, and to determine the solution proposals. [[Bolu]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] 8) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Mughle]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 13) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] 15) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 18) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] 20) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we provide the basis for establishing administrative and legal setbacks, the discovery of the victims of children's children's victims, and for setting up a new law bill to be created with relevant institutions in order to prepare for the development of these wrong legal grounds, in order to establish systematic violence and abuse problems facing children in juvenile prisons, to investigate sexual abuse issues, to investigate problems under investigations, to identify problems that are being created, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] On February 25, 2012, Posant M-type Children's Prison brought up the issue of torture and abuse against children in detention or in prison. In the last incident, it turned out that the mountain was just a visible face. When the children who were imprisoned in Posant Prison applied to the Human Rights Institution in 2011, were subjected to various violations of rights in prison or in prison, for example, on the first day they were taken to prison, they were threatened by the cob and threatened by a prison warden for what crime the guards had come for, and were warned by the administration to torture them and torture them, you are terrorists. Moreover, after years of these incidents, after a child committed suicide in 2009, a report by the TBM Human Rights Commission in 2010 revealed these problems at the prison and stated that the prison must be closed. Nevertheless, these problems seem to have been ignored and the children have been victimized. There are 2,317 arrested children in Turkey. Human rights organisations say that children are subjected to torture and abuse in prisons, systematic torture, and that this process begins with detention. Serious problems are being caused by the Anti-Terror Law, which is designed with the logic of punishment and is fundamentally a false law. It is urgent that legal arrangements are made in Turkey to ensure that children can be judged fairly and in accordance with international human rights norms. Therefore, we propose that a research commission in Turkey will be established in order to create a new framework for the discovery of the victims of children's harms and changes of this wrong legal ground in order to prepare a new law bill with relevant institutions. Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there's a motion for a parliamentary investigation. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 23/10/2011, a 7.1 earthquake occurred in Van Province, killing many people. After the earthquake, a large number of aftershocks took place, while an earthquake was reported at 5.7 on 09/11/2011, and a total of 39 people were killed, including the Bayram Hotel, two of which collapsed, including the Bayram Hotel. Following the incident, Van Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation and has been appointed responsible for the prosecution's report. In the conclusion of the expert report, the report states that "particular units that do not do damage to the building and do not take the necessary measures are also flawed." The AFAD is imperfect not to distinguish whether a citizen will be sheltered in the 16 days of the first earthquake until the second earthquake, and not to allow people to enter the buildings, even though it is dangerous to enter the buildings (because of the aftershocks and new earthquakes), not to oppose the hotel's invasion, not to oppose the hotel's invasion, not to prevent access to those hotels that are supposedly open to everyone in the city, but to prevent access to those hotels that have been destroyed, which are supposed to be destroyed, even though they are dangerous (because of the after-hours and new earthquakes). Once again, the Bayram Hotel was damaged before the second earthquake. The cracks in the hotel have been shown in the press. Since one of the units tasked with determining the damage and taking the necessary measures between the two earthquakes is Afet and the Chief of Emergency Management, and is in accordance with Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalalay, we respectfully submit and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Article 107 of the Constitution and under Article 107 of the Turkish Penal Code, on the charge that his actions were in accordance with Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code. [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 13) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] [[Slap]] [[Aydın]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] 23) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Artvin]] [[40s.]] 28) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] 30) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 46) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] 48) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 49) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 50) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 51) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] 53) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Bolu]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 57) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] 59) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] 63) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 64) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] On 23 October 2011, a 7.1 earthquake occurred in Van Province, killing many people. After the earthquake, a large number of aftershocks took place, while an earthquake was reported at 5.7 on 09/11/2011, and a total of 39 people died, including a hotel with Bayram Hotel, which collapsed 18 buildings, 24 people in Bajram Hotel. Following the incident, Van Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation and has been appointed responsible for the prosecution's report. In the conclusion of the expert report, it is also stated that relevant units that do not make damage assessments in the building and do not take the necessary measures are also flawed. It has been revealed that the units in charge of the damage assessment and the necessary measures between the two earthquakes are flawed. The prosecution has filed a charge against the owner of the Bayram Hotel, Tefik Bayram, for manslaughter on purpose, and this case is under way. The AFAD is imperfect not to distinguish whether a citizen will be sheltered in the 16 days of the first earthquake until the second earthquake, and not to allow people to enter the buildings, even though it is dangerous to enter the buildings (because of the aftershocks and new earthquakes), not to oppose the hotel's invasion, not to oppose the hotel's invasion, not to prevent access to those hotels that are supposedly open to everyone in the city, but to prevent access to those hotels that have been destroyed, which are supposed to be destroyed, even though they are dangerous (because of the after-hours and new earthquakes). Again, the Bayram Hotel was damaged before the second earthquake. The cracks in the hotel have been shown in the press. The Chinese News Agency Xinhua checked into the hotel after the first earthquake and recorded the cracks. The Anadolu Agency shared these images with the public on November 10, 2011. If the relevant unit AFAD had detected damage to the hotel, the cracks would have been seen and the hotel would not have been allowed to invade. The hotel is a public area. If there is a dangerous situation in public, state security must be provided first. Despite the presence of aftershocks, this hotel was not shut down or inspected after the first earthquake. Government officials have made statements that public buildings have been examined. But it's not a normal building, it's a public place. The rescue teams from outside Van's office, journalists, have stayed there with the assumption that the state has inspected the hotel and that it can stay here. Again, the AFAD authorities do not examine it, and they do not have any explanation for its access to the hotel. The Department of Emergency and Disasters depends on the Governorate. The governor's statement that hotels are safe and can stay in hotels in a television program between the two earthquakes is embarrassing and disorienting as the local property manager. The prosecution's expert report states that the Bayram Hotel has no damage assessments and no damage detection units are responsible for the collapse of the building and the deaths. One of the units responsible for damage detection is AFAD. In 2009, AFAD was replaced by the General Directorate of Civil Defence and the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs. It depends directly on the Prime Minister. In Article 2 of the Law, it has been referred to as "the taking of necessary measures to ensure the effective implementation of disaster and civil defence services at the level of the country and reducing harm and harm, and co-ordinating between institutions and institutions that carry out the intervention and improvements carried out in the course of the incident," and Article 8 is also referred to as "a disaster and emergency intervention at the level of the country." Emergency management consists of preparation, loss reduction, intervention, healing phases. Deaths and injuries occurred at the Bayram Hotel because of the mistakes made in these four phases. These four phases are AFAD's jurisdiction. The AFAD is imperfect not to identify the areas where citizens will not be sheltered until after the first earthquake, and not to notice the damage and to warn people not to enter the buildings, even though it is dangerous to enter the buildings (because of the secondary earthquakes and new earthquakes), despite the damage in the hotel, not to oppose the hotel's invasion, but to prevent access to those hotels, which are supposed to be safe for everyone in the city, but are destroyed by the citizens. Once again, the Bayram Hotel was damaged before the second earthquake. The cracks in the hotel have been shown in the press. Regarding the statements of the hotel's residents and the damage to the written-visual media, Chinese News Agency Xinhua checked into the hotel after the first earthquake and recorded the cracks. The Anadolu Agency shared these images with the public on November 10, 2011. If the relevant unit AFAD had detected damage to the hotel, the cracks would have been seen and the hotel would not have been allowed to invade. The hotel is a public area. If there is a dangerous situation in public, state security must be provided first. Despite the presence of aftershocks, this hotel was not shut down or inspected after the first earthquake. They have no explanation for the access to the hotel, as has not been reviewed by officials of the Ministry of Disasters and Emergency Management. There are allegations that he neglected the mission by taking precautions. Because the AFAD is incumbent on Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay and we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Article 107 of the Constitution 100th and Civil Law of the Turkish Penal Code on the charge that their actions were in accordance with Article 257. The Council of Ministers shall then be submitted to the General Assembly's approval of the Council on the day of the meeting of the parliamentary inquiry in accordance with the decision. Now, the main Parliamentary Research Commission (10/576, 577, 578) has a paper on the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk, and I'm going to make you read it and submit it to your information. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission is 8/05/2013 Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. B Block 2. Level 4. The Research Commission in Banko has met with nine members at the Assembly Hall, and the following members have been selected for the following tasks. Name and Last Name Voted Election Zone President Mehmet Naci Bostancı Amasya 9 Vice President Abdulkerim Gök Şanlıurfa 9 Speaker: İdris Şahin Çanırı 9 Clerk: Fatosh Gürkan Adana 9 It has been presented to your knowledge. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with Turkey's 1st-placed Civil Charter Proposal on the Amendment of the Grand National Assembly. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Postal Service Law Bill in the 3rd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger adopted Article 30, which was part of the second part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now there's a motion on the 31st article (1) that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Postal Services Act, Article 31, be removed from Article (1) from the text of the article. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0024par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0023par0470	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0025par0471	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0023par0472	I'm having it read. (x) 452 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 99th Unification Charter, dated 02/05/2013. Since Postal Law 5584 has been revoked regarding PTT, which has been granted legal monopoly, it must be removed from the article text of Number (1). I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the (1)th joke based on Article 31: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on the 31st article (2), which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the extension of the list of Article 31 of Article 31 (b) of the current 452 Postal Services Charter, which is placed at the end of the list of Article 2 (b). Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Recep Special Mehmet Öğurk Yilmaz Tunç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (ss 452) We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Postal Services Act (2) be removed from the text of the article. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Commission, do you agree? We're putting it to the proper perspective. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0026par0494	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0023par0495	Mr. President, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0027par0496	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0023par0497	I'm having it read. Since Article 8 of Article 2 of Information Technologies and Communication Institution Act 2813 has been changed in relation to PTT, which is granted legal monopoly, the article 2 should be removed from the text of the article.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0027par0500	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit01spe0023par0501	I will vote on the Republican People's Party motion on Article 31 of Article (2) and seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept the motion... Those who don't agree... There's not enough to decide, so I'll take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0023par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision on the 31st Article (2) of the bill was not enough in the vote of the motion of Samuel MP Haydar Akar and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree to the motion... those who refuse to accept it... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We will continue the talks of Bill 452. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the extension of the list of Article 31 of Article 31 (b) of the current 452 Postal Services Charter, which is placed at the end of the list of Article 2 (b). Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We leave it to recognition. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0028par0013	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0029par0014	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0023par0015	I'm having it read. The Information Technologies and Communications Agency also had serious tasks, such as the task of implementing sanctions, if it detects improper actions in the Postal Sector, which is a very large sector as well as its current duties, but only 20 additional personnel were required to carry out these tasks. Although there is much more needed in addition to the current number of staff available to be able to complete, complete the tasks of the institution with its current staff, it is intended to employ 30 assistant staff, which believes that the required number of staff is insufficient, in addition to the number of staff available to be able to intervene in the sector quickly. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the number-one joke on Article 31: those who accept... those who do not accept...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0030par0020	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0023par0021	There's enough to decide, matter accepted. There are two proposals on Article 31 (3) of the same nature. I'm going to process these motions together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article (3) of Article 31 of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill, which is discussed, be removed from the text of the Article (3). D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu The signatures of the other motion are: Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0031par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0032par0039	Dear Ali Sarıbaş...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0023par0040	Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP... Mr. Yellowhead, please.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0033par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the bill of Postal Services Number 452. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by stressing the importance of the National Liberation and Independence War of PTT, which operates in mail, telegrams, parcels and cargo transports and banking activities. As you know, I. After World War II, Istanbul and Anatolia were occupied. The telegraph centre in Istanbul was also in the hands of the British. A new telecommunications organisation was forced into the success of the National Liberation and Independence War, launched by Mustafa Kemal Pasha in Anatolia. Due to the failure of an uncommunicated national resistance, Inspector Edip Bey was brought to his head and the Post and Telegraph Office in central Ankara was established and the post lines were established, and in April 1920 he was linked to the Ministry of Interior by permission of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The first post office was opened in a tent set up in the garden of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to monitor the development of the occupied country's territory, with the name of the Government of Turkey's National Assembly Post and Telegraph Centre, which was used as the first postmark. During the most difficult and enthusiastic days of the War of Salvation, the PTT Directorate served without enough pens and ink on the two citadels placed in the tent with all its units. It's even written on a knee because it's not a writing machine. When the war for independence began, telegraph lines were drawn to ensure the contact of the national government and the Turkish army. The supplies were old and inadequate. After the victory of the Liberation War, and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, the Supreme Ataturk thanked the telegraphers at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1927, saying that the telegraphers took great responsibility for winning the Turkish Liberation War. According to the 2011 action report, the PTT operates in the mail, telegraph and parcel transport and banking activities. The operation is carried out by 37,819 employees, including 1,089 officers, 27,317 contract workers, 789 workers and 8,644 subcontractors. According to the Court's operational reports, 1 billion 788 million and 40,000 liras were made in 2011, with a net profit of 174 million and 39,000 liras. When we look at these data, we see that PTT's profitability rate is 11 percent. The company, which has received a significant portion of its income from postal services, has also started to receive significant revenues from collection and wire transfer services under the name PTT Bank in recent years. As of 2009, our national corporation, PTT, has begun to damage cargo services and telegraph services due to the wrong policies of executives. In 2011, the cost of logistics services was 86 per cent, while the damage to telegraph services was 53 per cent. The institution has previously served as vice-president, vice-president, president, and some of them have been appointed advisors from other institutions, but they have been found to have not been used enough of their experience and knowledge and their savings have not been used, and they have been placed in passive tasks. Couldn't information and savings have been actively used by counselors who were left out in the open? The question is still an example of the government's policy and staff. In addition, it appears that a decent pricing system has not been created by taking into account costs, where profitability and efficiency have not been properly established. The PTT has been put into place in 2010 -- including legal charges -- for the transit fees of the General Directorate of Highways. Now, I'm running out of time, but I'd like to say in particular that PTT (PTT) has been left to this day, but I'd like to point out that after that, with this corporateization, both the employees and the PTT (PTT) will be destroyed and the privatisation will be the beginning.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0034par0053	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Akçay, have them come in.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0035par0056	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on the Article (3) of Article 31 of the Law Bill No. 452. I salute your honorable committee. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, before I speak, last night around 8:00 p.m., the heavy rain started suddenly in the districts of Alaşehir and Sarıgöl in Manisa. In particular, there has been a great deal of damage to the ligaments. Some 10,000 acres have suffered damage to 90 percent or even 100 percent. The villages of Greenyurt, Sobran, Subabe, Grapes, Narlıdere, Delemens, Hadjials, Baddinca villages; the villages of Sarıgöl Central and Sarıgöl are also damaged. The grape clusters have been spread out, the vine sprouts have been broken, and the fields where the vineyards are found have turned into lakes, and because of the financial impossibilities, many of the farmers can't get insurance, the damage has now become unbearable. Unfortunately, the damage to this hail will add to the years to come, because the sprouts that have been broken don't produce products next year either, I'm afraid. Therefore, I wish all our citizens well, and ask the government to take care of their troubles as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, now 1 PTT employee serves our average 1,953 citizens. In Manisa, it corresponds to 3,113 people. So it serves almost -- much more -- more than 50 percent of people. Now, when we look at Smyrna's constituency, 1,740 people are serving 1 PTT employee, and 1 PTT employee is 3,113. Again, when we look at the Minister's hometown of Erzincan, we see the obvious difference. Unfortunately, that's the difference in sight. Erzincan also serves 1,018 people, 1 PTT employee, 3,113 people in Manisa, 3 times the difference. So there's a huge difference in the distribution of PTT services in staff employment, so there's gotta be someone wrong. Either the wrong one in Erzincan, or the wrong one in Manisa. That and our esteemed Erzincan MP will certainly consider it. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey considers the postal service a public service. As he has made legal arrangements in this regard, he has determined the specific aspects of this matter as a monopoly, and as a result, it has been organized in line with that view. With this bill, the institutional structure of PTT (PTT), a 300-year-old institution, is being destroyed and the privatisation of the PTT (PTTTT), such as Turkish TELEKOM, is being opened. On behalf of the PTT private legal person, who is being established as a private legal person, the Constitution has a monopoly right against the Constitution, and this provision is a violation of various articles of our Constitution. According to this bill, PTT will conduct its services through existing personnel and contract personnel. The bill provides arrangements for contract personnel. According to this, from the time the law is in effect PTT will employ contract personnel from among those who have taken the KPSS exam. These personnel will be employed under administrative service agreements without subject to the provisions of State Officers Act 657 and other laws on contracted personnel. In terms of social security, the contracted personnel will be subject to the provisions of Article 4 of Law 5510 of the first joke (a). Contracted personnel... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, and with these thoughts, I wish to accept our motion.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0036par0064	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes the third joke based on Article 31: those who accept... Those who don't agree... The joke is accepted. Article 31 (4) There is a motion on the third joke, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 We propose and propose that Section 31 of the original Postal Services Act's Article (4) be removed from the text of the article. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Muharrem İlş Doğan Dawn Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0037par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0038par0078	Mr. Muharrem Light will speak.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0036par0079	Muharrem Light, Erzincan. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0039par0082	Mr. President, of course, every privatisation has brought neither to Erzincan nor to the post office, and I would like to be more concerned about it. My problem is Erzincan. Now, earlier, TELEKOM was privatized, and as far as I know, 400 people left Erzincan, and left. Last month, Aras, an electrical company, was privatized. In Aras, 60 people are forced to retire, at least 40 of these 60 will leave Erzincan, and they will be gone somewhere. Of course, after PTT is privatized or autonomous, certain people will also leave Erzincan. Of course, Erzincan is the shining city of the east. Indeed, as beauty of nature, Erzincan is the shining city of the east, and in our own terms, Antalya is normally, but unfortunately, Erzincan suffers from the good things that have been done in Erzincan. Now, the latest, privatisation of the sugar factory has returned with Mr. Prime Minister's unsigned signature, but is now counting the days to be privatized again. What is the privatisation of the sugar factory in Erzincan? It means 10,000 families at least. That means that in the villages we specifically call the reed zone, at least 2,000 families can't plant anything but beets because the water area is so high that they have to leave Erzincan. When we looked to see if Erzincan's population was increasing, it looked like 1,700 this year, but... although the population of Erzincan was not that high in the past, because when I worked at the health clinic, we were doing the most solid numbers when we were actually doing ETF, then we were seeing that the population of Erzincan was inflating. At this rate, of course, there will be further declines in the population of Erzincan. Of course, Erzincan will have a certain migration along with the privatisation of PTT. As I just said, after the closing or privatisation of the sugar factory, and if it gets privatised, if it's given to a company that will at least produce sugar, there'll be work, but if it's given to some firms, then the sugar factory in Erzincan will go. Last year, the Meat Fish Association bought and gave away $1 worth of private administration in Erzincan. Last year, they said: "We have saved 11 trillion dollars with old money, we will build it, we will heal it, and we will serve it. This year, 22 trillion will be divided with old money. He's still not here, Mr. Secretary, but he's not been shot, he's said to be destroyed. We're waiting for this as soon as possible, because our councilmen signed it when we gave it to them, and they're willing to pay a dollar for it. We also said that it would be done immediately -- especially in Erzincan -- that there would be chicken production in Erzincan, the reanimation of chicken farms, at least, near the sinking chicken farm, and that the word at the time was that the chicken would go from Erzincan, especially to the Turkish republics, and Erzincan would now become a white meat paradise. Of course, that's -- we're waiting -- it still hasn't happened. Of course, since I'm constantly bringing up the hospital, someone's starting to get uncomfortable, but at Erzincan, right now -- again today -- attempts to connect the state hospital to the research hospital. The commitment of the state hospital to the research hospital means maybe the hospital will survive financially, but if it is connected... our deputy says it won't be closed when we say so. I agree with him, and I'm sure he doesn't want to, and I'd like to think so. I'd like to think that our Minister doesn't want to shut it down, and I think so, but with the Public Hospitals Association Act you took out, if it does, you'll shut it down anyway, there's no other way. Because if you don't shut it down, there won't be any more of those that you appointed over him, nor will there be any more hospitals. I mean, you passed this law, even though we were so against it. So if this hospital is damaged, which is damaged, it's going to close. We say, since you're so privatized, you're making the population migrate in Erzincan, you're lowering the income, so let's make Erzincan a health centre. I mean, what's the difference between us and Erzurum? Are you jealous of Erzurum? We are jealous, jealous of health. Because in Erzincan, don't people deserve it? Don't our friends, our friends from the provinces, from the counties around Erzincan, deserve it so that we can stick to Erzurum, stick to Sivas, die on the roads, as Erzincan said? It would have been good if Mr. Secretary had been here, but they didn't themselves -- Erzincan would have needed the foundation of the hospital as soon as possible. If the foundation is removed, the hospital's Erzincan will be saved, and the public hospital will be left. Otherwise, if we get tied up like this at Research Hospital and take over, the hospital will be closed down slowly. But like I said, the important thing is to make it happen as soon as possible. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0040par0093	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Article 31 (4) I submit to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... (4) The third joke is accepted. Now there are two motions on the temporary item one, which I'm going to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Within a year, we propose and provide that the declaration of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Service Law shall be changed into the 1st Amendment of the 1st Amendment within a year. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Mustafa Erdem Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose the removal of the Interim Article 1 of the Mail Services Act from the draft text. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Muharrem İlş Doğan Dawn Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0041par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0042par0113	Muharrem Light.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0040par0114	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0043par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Erzincan, of course -- there was a Mera Law that you had recently passed -- along with this Mera Law, have been put into support by the villages, which are fewer animals, and these meras have been distributed. At the latest dispersals... There are so many funny things going on in Erzincan... that now, the institution that makes animalism the best, the people who are, in fact, the people we call Shavli. They're mostly in the Middle District. In fact, one of our citizens is our current chief of staff. Of course, there's a lot of smell in these tenders when they're there. How's it coming? They say that you invested so much money in the contract that entered this village, you did it to handle it, but because of something that came from one place, someone else took it... his number of animals is more, more. I'm not putting you in the tender. I called our deputy governor. I said, "Why are you doing this?" I called the Department of Agriculture. That's what the law says, if it doesn't show up or something gets out, we don't admit it, we don't put it in. But you look on the other side, and we see that other people on the other side bring in their pets and they're there to pet them. After all, this is what we call the shavak, our countrymen, these are the ones that are trying to keep Erzincan's cheese up right now. And when We strike them with the like of it, and they carry their cattle, and they meet with many afflictions, and they will meet one another this year. I'll tell you this: really, there's been a lot of tension this year, and the tension is still going on because it hasn't really been properly distributed. I've seen it. Whoever gets the cheese, whoever gets the cheese, whoever gets the cheese, they rent the mountains. It's been a little strong this year for those who gave the cheese to the wholesalers in Elazýg. I think we should be careful about this. We've already given Mr. Minister of Agriculture the necessary question motion and the research motion, and hopefully they'll give us the right answer. In Erzincan, our other problem is with these HESEs and with the dams. Now, for some reason, the HESEs and the dams are all being built to destroy villages that vote for the Republican People's Party. Now, our village of Kirmana, our village of Halalözi -- its former name is Kırmana, our new village -- is expected to be built into a pond there. Let it be done, we don't call it anything, but there's an area that's gonna be cheap. It's cheap when it's built in a tight space, but the old houses of the village -- but it's being inhabited right now, and I'm saying that because the old village place has changed -- and the places where the graveyards are going. But it's going to cost a little when it's two kilometers down, because it's expanding a little bit. When it's done there, nothing will happen to the graveyards or to be destroyed in the village houses, but they insist we do it here. They insist. I've spoken to the general managers, I've spoken to the director of Erzurum District, of course, something's been made up here, it's not solid, but it's definitely not. Because we know it's pretty much the same place, except there's a lot of width, because I'm also a child of that area. There will be two dams in Kemah. The area of these dams, where it covers, has to be raised by about eight villages because it's going to be underwater. You're looking at all the villages that have already voted for the Republican People's Party. What will these villages do? We know there'll probably be less money at work than he deserves. But they will have left Erzincan again, because they will no longer dwell there. Of course, you'd be happy about that, because why? You'd think the Republican People's Party would have a bit of a hard time getting a congressman out there. And while HES is being done, they're being so rude that there's one more HES going on up there, again at Kemah. Your man, without permission, without asking, builds his fields, makes them straight. I don't know if it's gonna go through there or not. They've hit three roads in their own way. First they hit the first side, then the second side, now they're hitting the third side, and they're destroying the fields. We're looking for my brother-in-law, there's no sound. We're telling the governor, no sound. There will be a project here. They will be given whatever money is rightfully theirs. They say, "This is how they avoid it." As for the services of our villages, I want to thank my friends, especially the county general councillors, because we have members of the city's general council in the municipalities that have served in Erzincan. Our friends in this AKP are the same, and our friends in the CHP are the same. But unfortunately, when we look at the amount that was sent, of course, there's a lot of money going on here. They can say "Erzincana" but it's not. When we look at it, we're very bad at serving our villages. When we look at the money in the coming counties, it doesn't drop more than 300 or 400. If you think 1 kilometre of asphalt is $80,000, you'll appreciate how much to do with it. If we want Erzincan to be the city that shines especially after the Ergan Mountain Project, we need to build our villages, we need to revive our villages. I don't know how much you're interested in this, but we'd appreciate the help. But we will, again, continue to tell the truth as we know it. When we say these things, no one is to be taken, and there is this: I will not take the score when Erzincana is made a public hospital. I think it's necessary to act accordingly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0044par0126	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Within a year, we propose and provide that the declaration of the 452 Orders Numbered Postal Service Law shall be changed into the 1st Amendment of the 1st Amendment within a year. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0045par0135	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0044par0136	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0046par0138	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, Mr. Minister of Transport is not here, but I'd like to remind them of our visit to the Ministry last year and to bring up his promise to our delegation once again about the renovating of the closed Burdur-Isparta railway. As the Ispartans, the Burdurians and the National Movement Party, I say once again that we expect this promise to be fulfilled. Dear lawmakers, we all know that the PTT Inc bill has been brought up to create the infrastructure of privatisation and to clear the way for the privatized PTT. As always, the AKP, instead of expressing this simple fact, shows us, rather than being honest with you, it's a form of behavior like covering the national will. Despite its lack and impossibility, one has an eye for the revenues of the PTTEST, which makes nearly 200 trillion profits each year, and the AKP has become an intermediary. Is PTT well managed by this structure? On behalf of a long-term executive and board of directors who've probably made a profit, we'd have to have documents and information to say otherwise. So why are you privatizing an institution that you think is well managed and profitable? Or do you have a concern that today is good, that everything is going well, but tomorrow it can be mismanaged? Let's sell while we're at it. Are you happy? Did it ever occur to you that, instead of privatisation, for a PTT that follows all kinds of political advances, follows all kinds of technological developments, meets the market rules, autonomy, independent management? Is the only measure you take into account in the privatisation of an institution is that it's profiting? For example, isn't it important that this institution is strategic in terms of the country's safe future? Did you not also read the role of Telegrapher Hamdi Bey, in the independence and independence of this country? No matter how much technology develops, isn't it the human factor that's using that technology? Look, we can raise these questions even more. It's obvious what we're saying as a nationalist movement party. No, we don't want privatisation. We're asking you, are you aware of the strategic importance of the institution you want to privatize? Do you have any detailed tests on this? Unfortunately, as the National Movement Party, we don't believe these analyses are being conducted. We don't think you know that the argument that the AKP is most important for the dependency of the nations is to make that nation's economy dependent, to seize the companies that produce high-tech information. So it's not privatisation, it's alienation. This bill will be the first step in selling this institution. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask the following questions as this matter is being discussed and say we're waiting for your answers. Unfortunately, there are unused mailboxes all over the place. As these boxes are not opened on a daily basis, most of them are filled with garbage. We want to know the cost of making and editing of mailboxes made during the AKP period and who are being made. And then there's the hand terminals the mailman uses. We want to know what that costs PTT. Almost all of these terminals are thrown out today. The public is asking about the cost of installing and maintenance of the PTT cargo port. Where are you going to set up more than these centers that can't even afford their mandatory expenses? On March 27th, the union members who acted against this arrangement were told that they were treated with all kinds of threats and abuse. Is that true? Is there anything about these Mobbbings and threats that is consistent with the concept of advanced democracy that you have not dropped from your tongue? I hope that we are waiting in public for the answer to this question, and once again, when it comes time to say something about Isparta-Burdur iron, we expect our Minister of Transport to give a message to the public, to the Ispartans, to the Burdurians, to the Burdurians. And on behalf of the district lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0047par0147	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... shall be granted the Interim Article 1. There are two motions on the interim Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of the 452 Orders of Postal Services Act be changed to ▪ within a month or two of the 1st article of the 2nd Amendment. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Mustafa Erdem Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose the removal of the Interim Article 2 of the Mail Service Act from the draft text. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0048par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0049par0167	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0047par0168	I'm reading the reason: The PTT, which has a monopoly on the law, has to be established as a public economic institution for its public legal personality, which is subject to KH3.
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0049par0171	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-09sit02spe0047par0172	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
