tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government has the right to respond to these conversations. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP who wants to speak about the problems of the grape producers. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of the grape makers. I salute your honorable committee. Dear MPs, 41 per cent of Manisa's population, some 550,000 of our citizens are employed in agriculture. Turkey is first in the world in the production and export of nuclear-free raisins. 88% of the dried grapes in Turkey are produced in Manisa. In Manisa, about 100,000 families earn their living from grapes. For manisalı, grapes are the family's livelihood, the dowry of the young, the allowance of the children who read, and the provision of the children. Each year, around $500 million in foreign exchanges are provided from seed-free raisin exports, and around $100 million in exports from table grapes. The development of connectivity depends on the fresh or processed product being evaluated in domestic and external markets. Proximity of supply demand balance in a seedless grape is highly victimised by producers. The farmer has to sell under his cost, sometimes his grapes remain in the vineyard. Therefore, production planning and physical planning must be made first, and alternative consumption opportunities must be developed, storage system must be established, and storage costs must be supported. Last year, the Manisa grape manufacturers sold their raisins for $4.85, and had to sell their grapes for $2.50 this year. Now the price is between $2.70 and $3. Therefore, the development of alternative utilities in the production of grapes has become a necessity. The introduction Fund should provide support, giving raisins to elementary school students and to our soldiers. Businesses that work on dry fruit should be encouraged to produce packaging for retail consumption. To prevent price fluctuations in grapes, a grape intervention organization of farmers, agricultural chambers members, trade markets, exporters must be established. In order for grapes to have a real price in the free market, private stock markets must be created, or the current stock markets should be employed, and current trade markets should be saved from being registered. I'd like to address the government from here: you said it was a pool-based production. In the geediz basin, the seedless raisins will be supported. You said, you had meetings, what happened? Nothing happened, unfortunately the mountain gave birth to a mouse. You promised physical planning, you didn't. You said production planning, you didn't. For production planning in production, five years ago, grape committees were established, including the executives of the Tarish Grape Union, and now we're learning that these committees have been abolished. The Justice and Development Party has never taken a step towards grapes, so if anyone has said, let's talk here or on other platforms, let's discuss it. As a result of the privatisation of TEKEL, and the failure of Tarish (TARİSK) to resuscitate the market, core-free raisin prices are behind entry costs and inflation increases. Therefore, grape prices must be announced at the latest by the beginning of August. If the grapes are money money, the grapes are power, and if the grapes don't pay, AKP officials and lawmakers are full cover, so to speak, we can't even see at the first grape ceremony on the market, and even some AKP Manisa MPs said, "If the price falls under 3.5 lira this year, don't let anyone sell the grapes in the opening season, come and find us." The farmers believed in them, and kept their grapes waiting, but the grapes came down to two and a half liras. He stayed on that level for months. Don't sell it for less than $3.5. Those who say "A" have disappeared. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Gönul Bekin Şahkulubey, who wants to speak on behalf of Tourism Week. Here you go, Mr. Tabkulubey.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for Tourism Week. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. This week is also Happy Birthday Week. On this occasion, I once again celebrate the 1st anniversary of our Prophet Lord's birth and wish it to be a blessing. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've increased the investment moves we've started in the field of tourism since 2002, allowing our country to enter among the countries that have a say in world tourism. Turkey has managed to take part in the international tourism market in both tourism revenues and the number of tourists in the top 10 countries. Our tourism revenues have increased as a result of investments and promotions as a government. The number of tourists came to Turkey in 2002 was 13 million, while in 2012 it was close to 37 million. Tourism revenues, which were $12 billion in 2002, rose to $29 billion in 2012. As an EC PARTY, we adopt the sustainable tourism approach. In this context, we aim to include Turkey among the top five countries in the international market in terms of the number of tourists and tourism revenues by 2023 and to make our country an international brand in tourism. Tourism is a great potential for our country and Mardin. Investment in our country, Mardin province will also receive the necessary share. Tourism, which has gained momentum since the 2000s, has improved year after year. So that when our number of guests arrived and stayed in 2002 was 24,600, in 2011 they reached 161,096. The number of beds found in the provinces and counties was 161 in 2004, while the number of beds found in the provinces and districts in 2012 was 4,391 in 2012. Mardin is between its historical and natural structures and the attractions of cultural tourism. It is one of our provinces, which contains the traces of 30 civilizations, which are worth seeing as the historical city where languages and religions meet until today, starting with the Yontma Stone Age. In addition, the temples in the villages of Deyrulzafan, the first home of the Suryani Orthodox congregation, and the temples in the Midyat villages of the Yezidi, also have an important place in the tourism of faith. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been nominated to enter UNESCO's World Heritage List in recent years with the historical and cultural structure of Mardin, which has become the focus of not only our country but the entire world. We have 665 buildings registered by the Regional Council for the Protection of Culture and Naturalities in the central and boroughs of our province. In this context, we launched the Historical Transformation Project of the century in Mardin. As part of the Historical Transformation Project, we first performed destructions through 19 public buildings that had been built as concrete in the site so far, to transform Mardin into a hundred years ago, and by nationalization in buildings with around 100 private property. We plan to destroy all 570 concrete structures within the urban site and 860 concrete plugins. The Historical Transformation Project and Mardin will have historical texture 100 years ago. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I welcome you from the top of the Shahidiya Mosque Medresi Medresis, from the town of civilization where the oppressors echoed in brotherly tones, to live in the climate of tolerance, to see the blue darkness that turned the plain of Mesoopamya from the hands of experts who gave life to silver and stone, to see a gaudy necklace from the Postal Building, from the Temple of Chainia, from the top of Shahidiya Mosque Medresesi, from the top of the town of the Marangoz, and from all of our committees, to welcome you to the grand sea.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. Shahkulubey. The third unscheduled statement is from İstanbul MP İhsan Özkes, who asked for the occasion of Kutlu Birth Week. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to Happy Birthday Week. I salute you all. I congratulate you on the 1.442nd anniversary of our country and of the entire Islamic world, the blessed birth of our beloved Prophet Muhammad. Congressmans, Muhammad has come into this world poor, gone poor. He had no fortune to inherit. He left behind neither a dinar nor a dirham. While still alive, the Hijaz, Yemen, the entire Arabian Peninsula were conquered to the borders of Damascus and Iraq. And how many spoils and tributes and divining and alms-giving have been taken! Many rulers have sent all kinds of gifts. He didn't keep any of it, he spent it all on the ring. He lived poor, but he enriched his people. The hand mill and the wheat grinder, and the water from the well, and the hand from the house, calloused and weakened, demanded the government treasure of Hazreti Fatima. My daughter, the poor and the orphans are worse off. They have more rights than you. He did not approve of this request. Because Muhammad wanted the rulers to think of their people before they did. Honourable MPs, the right of the slave never passed through the throat of Muhammad. He said that even God would not interfere with his servant. People, if I hit one of you on the back, here's my back, let him come and hit me on the back. If I've insulted or insulted one of you, here's my honor and dignity to repay you. If I took someone's property, here's my stuff, come and get it. Indeed, the noblest among you in my sight is the most honourable of you, if he has the right. He has commanded that anyone who dies defending his property, his life, his chastity, his dignity, and his honor will be a martyr. Therefore, if you bow before injustice, you will lose your rights, and then you will lose your honor. He also said: "The people born free by their mother cannot be enslaved." Dearly beloved, Muhammad is the Grand Prophet of our great religion, who has lifted the servant's service. He has only intended that men should be servants of God, but he has forbidden them to bow down to any other than God, and to be niggardly. Whoever delights in standing in front of him, let him prepare himself for the fire of hell. He repeated a number of times, "Don't be angry, don't be angry, don't be angry with anyone who asks him for advice. Again, he who finds his kin, who is superior to him, cannot smell heaven because of his love for him. He has commanded it. How can you say that, did you cut your heart out and scold a person who judged that someone was faithless? Dear lawmakers, when holy Muhammad made a decision a thousand and four hundred years ago, the people of that day could ask you, "Is this the command of God or your opinion?" If he said, "It's my opinion." This time, your opinion has this, your view is wrong, they could say, "It's better this way." Muhammad often gave up his own view and applied these suggestions. Thank you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0008par0052	We have a request, Mr. President, according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0007par0053	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Point: 83924060-150. 02. 02-119123 17/04/2013 The subject is the head of the TBMM in Serbia and Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek was accepted to visit Serbia on 14 April 2013 and Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) on 15 April 2013, with a parliamentary delegation to accept the invitations of National Assembly President Nebojsa Stefanovic and Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives Chairman Bozo Ljubic. Under Article 2 of the law mentioned, the names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman 3) Muhammad Bilal Macit İstanbul It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A decision issued by the Council of Ministers 2010/745 and called a zero-interest loan has reached $6.2 billion by the end of 2011. The fact that agricultural loan volume has increased in this way in a way that is not used to it brings some doubts together. Among these doubts, it is likely that at least some of the farmers will find it difficult to pay off these loans or even follow them. It is also clear that some of the farmers who have been unable to pay off their loans because of the economic difficulties that some of them have experienced, will have had to sell their land for years and mortgages. In this context, the total amount of loans the foreign capital banks used in 2002 was only $9,122,000 euros, while the total loan, as of September 2011, was $2 billion,854 million. In this case, it seriously disturbs public opinion that the banks will take over the land of farmers who can't pay their loans. In addition, based on Article 57 of the Banking Act, banks have to sell the assets they have to receive within three years of the day. Since it is natural for them to prioritize their own citizens in this disposal, it is possible that the land of the country will fall into the hands of foreign citizens. The area where some banks with foreign capital are most interested and competed to give loans is agricultural loans. They trick the farmer with numbers through the media and even use any leverage to make it easier to pay with a credit card. Our already desperate victims are falling into this trap. The BDDK is required to take measures to eliminate the loss of the manufacturer, farmer and peasant from foreign capital by these banks, as well as preventing the country's territory from falling into the hands of foreigners in this scenario. The amount of unpaid loan debt that has been monitored by foreign capital banks so far must be determined how many people are at this loss. These banks must be kept under strict supervision by the relevant ministries and organisations, and they must be thoroughly investigated in accordance with these loans. In addition, a number of people who invest in state-funded zero-interest loans and animalism investments failed to evaluate applications starting in August 2011, as the bank was underprivileged due to the excess application for zero interest loans, in return for their approval of all terms and even approval of credits. This has left our investors very victimised, depending on the loan he's going to use. Bank officials have said that despite the approval of these loans, they are short of cash and cannot be paid due to lack of funds, but these loans will be paid by 2012. Our farmers have been waiting to use low interest loans since August 2011. The decision of the Council of Ministers and the TC Agriculture Bank were not authorized to pay this loan, while the bank was not expected to suffer from cash shortages and lack of funds, thinking the demand could be too high. By saying or changing procedures, farmers and other entrepreneurs who rely on their government have been left half-way behind and this double standard procedure has undermined the public's confidence in the state. In addition, 3 per cent per year is asked to be paid per year and 1.5 per cent per year in loans to be used in 2012. It is also explained by authorities that the repayment of the loan will be reduced to six years instead of seven years. In order to protect and strengthen the country's agriculture by preventing a number of unjust practices in the face of these mentioned circumstances, we propose and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Civil Code, under Article 104 and 105, in order to establish administrative and institutional regulations. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 9) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] 16) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] [[Aydın]] 21) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] 27) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, we respectfully ask and ask for the opening of parliamentary research under Article 104 and 105 of the 98th and TBM Civil Charter, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken, and in the interest of protecting consumers in our country. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 12) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Paddles]] [[Sakarya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kütahya]] [[Samsun]] 18) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mughle]] [[Tripoli]] 22) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] The protection of the consumer, along with the free movement of products and services, has become the common problem and duty of the world. In order to improve the quality of life and improve business relations, there have been various regulations in our country, as in all countries around the world, to protect consumers since 1995. The arrangements to protect the consumer's health, to ensure its safety, and to ensure its economic interests have not been fully fulfilled in our country, unfortunately. Although the protection of consumer health is a prerequisite throughout the world, our country is lacking greatly in this regard. The audits often show food products and food-drinking that are not suitable for human health. The consumers are constantly facing many products that are made of dyed foods from expired products that are sold on the market. One of the most important regulations on consumer policies is the regulations for the protection of consumer economic interests. Such regulations aim to protect consumers from production errors, misleading ads and crooked trade. It is also an arrangement that gives consumer compensation. Aside from the arrangements, there are also significant shortcomings in the protection of consumers' economic interests in our country. Among the problems with consumers in our country in 2011, problems with goods and services are almost number one. Our country has had similar problems in 2010 and in previous years. Today, consumer organisations have the biggest challenge in our country in protecting consumer rights. These organisations have unfortunately been left unsupported by public institutions and organizations. The consumer's consciousness must be increased and the unilateral practices of commercial enterprises must be terminated. In our country, the same brand of products is sold to consumers at five different prices, while in the matter of indecent products, instead of taking the product back and paying the consumer, the seller is often on a way to replace the product with other products. The seller's firm makes all kinds of difficulties so they don't get the dirty stuff back. In our country, new regulations are being made against misleading advertising for consumers. A common service network for many, especially some electricity and electronic products is not yet available in our country. The consumer suffers greatly in the matter of indecent goods and services. The most commonly used cell phone in our country is serviced to consumers in one centre, even in major cities. This clearly reveals the position of consumer rights in our country. For this reason, a parliamentary research commission will be established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and TBM Civil Charter, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems that arise in the protection of consumers in our country. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Higher Education Credit and Homes Institution was established on August 22, 1961, under the Law No. 351, which entered into force to meet those tasks that were reported to belong to the Constitution and the state to meet the needs of the youth of higher education and education in our country. The institution was originally under the control of the Ministry of National Education, while it was transferred to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as required by the Office of the Presidency of February 6, 1970, and then to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, with the approval of the President published in 13/12/1983, and then to the Prime Minister's office, published on 10/12/2010 and 277810, under Article 6/b, and the Member State of the Ministry of National Education, under the Constitution of Education 4/5/2009 dates and 27218 (Mükerer). The institution serves 81 districts, 128 districts and 267,960 beds in a total of 305 dorms in Lefke. Given the number of students in higher education, it is clear that 305 homes are very inadequate. Because of this opening, private dorms have been established. Although these private dorms seemed to be few in the first place, they multiplied to meet the growing need over time, only as many as the number of student dorms of the Centre for Loans in Istanbul. Given the resources of private homes, although they may seem to offer far more opportunities than the loan dorms' homes, it is clear that private housing prices are steep, given the monthly salary and food allowance our institution receives. Since there are not enough state dorms in our country, private dorms are not under the control of price or service. It is clear how and under what conditions the audit is made, or not, when the control of private dorms is in the Ministry of National Education and the regulation is examined. The most important thing here are private homes founded, operated, and unsupervised by congregations. The right to control private dorms in the MEB is conducted twice a year and optionally by the district managers every 15 days and also by the municipal health department's teams, while the right to control them is under constant supervision periodic control. This is a very uncomfortable situation. Private dorms are openly against the law, but students are getting annual bonds signed and students are once again victimised. Students whose parents are in other cities trying to study at university, who are hard to survive because of financial improprieties, who are taxing universities under the name of tuition are also exploited by private dorms, and their fees are not controlled by students. The loan and housing institution does not have enough dorms, and the high wages of private homes push students to their community homes. The aim of identifying, uncovering, and resolving the problems caused by the students' dorm problems and the lack of supervision of higher education homes is 98 of our Constitution. Article 104 of our Civil Code. And 105. By establishing a research commission according to the nature of the matter, we respectfully present the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] 6) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Edirne]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] 12) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Antalya]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] 19) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] 21) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 22) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now that we have friends in the system, I'll make a promise. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0009par0271	Thank you, Mr. President. Village institutes are education projects that are unique to Turkey, based on the fact that Anatolia is schoolless and unteachered. It is an exemplary educational and teaching system for the world. Many enlightened people have grown up in these schools for the enlightenment and development of non - illiterate villages, causing increased education, preventing migration from village to city. I honor the founder of the village institutes, Hasan Aali Yücel and his Republican friends. Again, there has been a huge increase in the number of shopping malls across the country, especially in Istanbul in recent years. There are 11 malls in Bakırköy district of İstanbul alone. According to research, this number has left 11 countries in the world behind. These malls and markets are the biggest complaints of the one-on-one shop I've been seeing. In particular, the local tradesman took a big hit. I think a step-by-step mall opening should be prevented, a limit to that. New malls should be removed from the city, or at least an entire day of the week closed should be on the agenda. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0010par0275	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0011par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, health workers made press statements and walks in various provinces and hospitals of Turkey to end their increased violence and work in a secure environment. Sadly, while protesting violence, they again faced the violence and pressure of private security and law enforcement forces. The Minister of Health had these phrases in his memory: "I won't let the health workers flip me." I call on the minister to keep his promise. Again, in yesterday's statements, the director of the Ankara Medical Chamber's remarks are exemplary: they make us work with the threat of loss of income, the threat of exile, the fear of death, the fear of beating us to death. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0012par0282	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0013par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Our heromarash has many road problems, whether in his districts or in his central villages. Nearest of them is our village of Dereli, from our Kahramanmarash. Unfortunately, the roads of this village are not even stable. However, this village can only be watered by an hour a day. It's heartbreaking, of course. Our Transport Minister is here right now. Our heromarash, the way to the heavens, the road to Gaziantep, and the road to Adana have not been completed for many years. In fact, there was no road construction on our way to Gaziantep through Adana. A dozen of our citizens here have died because the roads are out of order. Who is responsible for this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0014par0288	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0015par0291	Mr. President, thank you very much. There's been an issue in the newspapers that has been invading public opinion for some time: I'm talking about news that the Republic of Turkey has been removed from the signs of various state offices and some official websites have been removed from the image of Big Ataturk. We have three Minister-Generals representing the government here. I need to know why the ruling of the Justice and Development Party is bothering to find the image of the Great Ataturk, both on official websites and on official signs of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Secretary, if they give me any information, I'll be happy, because by this moment, no official statement has been made on the government's behalf. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0016par0294	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0017par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. In totalitarian systems, people's perception is governed by every means necessary. In this context, intelligent people have been activated by the AKP to digest the public's inadvertent disgrace. According to this logic, people understand, people understand. According to Prime Minister Erdogan, people understand people who don't understand; people who don't understand, people who do. The AKP has become the most strict enforcer of its understanding of the public despite the public by means of its jakoben minds. The AKP has imposed intelligent jakoben elites on the people. This is the bureaucratic will. It has been a patriotic mission to protect the people from the jakoben elitist minds of the AKP. The AKP must withdraw its jakoben elitist minds and return to the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0018par0300	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0019par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. 2,750,000 Turkish liras have been tendered at a reasonable price for 2,521 square metres of land owned by FİSKOBIRİLİLİLİLIK, a service building, factory and warehouse in Giresun. A person who claims to have been prevented from taking part in the tender has been identified as $7,811,000 Turkish lira at the value of the Peace Court's 2013/5 instruction file. On the other hand, the sale of land and real estate are mortgaged on $2,500,000 Turkish liras owned by the Akyerek Brothers company. KİT Commission member AKP Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Akyürek Τ's family company has a mortgage of $2,500,000. WHAT commercial activity of Akyürek companies and FİSKOBIRCİRKİRKİRKİKİRKİSKİRKİ, and which commercial activity are being mortgaged? On the other hand, a lecturer at Giresun University broke his nose head against a student. I pay my respects by saying I'm a criterion.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0020par0306	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0021par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. In our town of Muğla at the weekend, when we traveled through the village, Central, Dalaman, Fethiye, and Kemer, again in Hamitköy, Olivelan, we saw that the price of the 2/B fields slowly began to be delivered to citizens, and there was a huge reaction to the citizens. So at these prices, there's no way these villagers, who have owned those places for seventy-eight years, are going to be able to buy this place. I'd like to draw attention to that again. Again, they say that our citizens from the region of Sarnic, which we passed by, have been hosted and settled in Bulgaria for many years, and that there is no way for these villagers and neighborhoods to get them. They expressed their reaction, citizens. That's what I'm saying from here, from the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0022par0312	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0023par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today the 78 people will present the initiative to the Speaker of Parliament 100,000 signatures they have collected to become the human rights museum of Diyarbakır Prison. Again, they've made an attempt on this matter to the Proposal Commission. Today they're going to visit the group's vice presidents of political party groups. As we know, the most inhumane torture of September 12th practices is the Diyarbakır Prison. Between 1981 and 1984 alone, 34 prisoners were killed by these severe tortures. So we care about the fact that this Diyarbakır Prison, which is a page of shame in one way or another, is a human rights museum in human history to be an example. In this regard, we invite the entire House and all political parties to be sensitive. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0024par0318	Thank you, Mr. Baluken. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0025par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, when the Law Code of Law was discussed, AKP Deputy Group Chairman Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı said that you would not open a room of persuasion over the response to the removal of punishments that opened the way for religious schools. If persuasion is such a bad way, why did you mobilise Anatolian people to convince the peace-seeking community of its uncertain content? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0026par0324	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Congressmans, the decision has been made to move on to the agenda of "The Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Komis-yons." We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off in the 1st ranking Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Adjudication Proclamation Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks by the Law Bill on the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport and the Report on Development, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, which is ranked in the 3rd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 441 rows. Members of parliament, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Interior Charter. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of groups on the entire bill, Durmis Ali Torlak, İstanbul MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Torlak, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0027par0346	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport, 441 rows. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the State Planning Agency, on March 15, 1985, went to international financial markets to start privatisation practices in state-owned enterprises and asked for various offers, and an American firm was eligible for talks and signed an agreement. This firm has analyzed our country's OSCEs as criteria for economic value, habitability and investment needs and identified areas of priority privatisation. In this framework, he analysed 32 CITs and divided them into three priority groups. The TCDD General Directorate is part of the third priority group of KİTESTs. These are the public service companies, which are primarily not attractive to private investors. However, by means of subcontracting services, they may be partially privatized. In recent years, it has been decided that the spread of fast train investments on railways across the country is more than the benefit of the Turkish nation, that this firm is intended to be attracted to private investors at the request of the EU Commission. So, apparently, TCDD is now in a position to attract the private sector, and it's time for TCDD. In fact, it is not right to consider this bill alone. It's already seen in every phase of the law to be filled with regulations. Therefore, I think it would be more appropriate for him to be evaluated along with Rule 655, which was issued in 2011. The privatisation, which will act on a profit drive, has been opened under Code No. 655. The decision has been lifted before the disintegration of a hundred and fifty-six years of institution and the fact that any work and service that completes railway management can be done by third parties. Here, the monopoly of the railway transport institution alone has been removed and private companies are not granted access to railway infrastructure; it is also made clear that infrastructure can be privatised among the duties of the Railway Editor-in-Chief. (x) 441 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. It is possible for those appointed by the State of the Law to be able to make any kind of privatisation possible with the signature of the Minister and the adoption of the iron passengers through professional competence and similar statements and reducing the number of public employees, the dismantling of public service, the marketing of all services including infrastructure, and the opening of all services to competition, the removal of all kinds of privatisations, and the removal of the lines of the campaign, as a result of the removal of all kinds of public service, and the removal of the service. So, in this bill, the restructuring of the Turkish Republic's State Railways is called "freeisation" according to the government, and it doesn't matter much to us; is the institution going to win after this law, or will foreign companies, which are very powerful in the transport of the railways, win? When we look at the applications in the world related to railways, it seems that only the private sector wins in liberalisation or privatisation practices. Hence, those who know the railway transport industry know that the type of transport that brings revenue on the railways is cargo transport. With privatisation, companies that are genuinely interested in railways will be logistical companies that carry cargo. Due to low income in passenger transport, private airlines, such as private airlines, will be guaranteed passengers, or will again be granted serious state subsidies such as the non-fuel of air travel companies. The state will have to apply a lot more subsidies to the newly established partnership, TCDD Transport to compete with the private sector and to sustain public service. That would be another problem. If subsidies are implemented, the European Union Commission will send notices for serious warnings and measures packages, as sent to England. Because subsidies of warnings sent to England are required to be reduced. Thus, despite these warnings from the European Union, additional revenues will be sought to make subsidies look lower. As a result, ticket prices will increase, as in Germany, France and England, or there will be new additions to taxes that we pay in general, such as the OTV. The European Union Commission has imposed on countries to end the state monopoly in the railway sector, while it has been courted by private companies of the single sector that have been monopolyd in the sector. So, if our country's privatisation of the railway, will the local condition be sought out, or will it be open to foreign global companies? This bill does not bring protection to the newly established TCDD Transport Agency, the private sector, which consists of neither national capital. The companies that are going into the sector can be domestic or foreign, in the form of partnership. In fact, since the legal status of the TCDD has been transformed into economic state structure, the new TCDD Transport Act will sell shares, as in Romania and Georgia, giving part of its responsibility to other domestic and foreign companies. Precious lawmakers, based on privatisation practices on railways, are made to control trade routes, particularly international energy corridors, in accordance with long-term plans by Central Asia and Eurasia, the EU and the United States. Turkey serves as a bridge between Europe and Asia due to its geopolitical position. The transit of cargo transport is also the destination and the exit. Global companies that trade in the region want to use these advantages of Turkey to their advantage. Therefore, there is no doubt that the logic and the purpose of the drafting of this law is to meet that request. Another thing: How will the formation of the main line train management be followed by this law? Will the number of trains decrease? Will the suburban trains remain in the TCDD Transport Company, or will they be transferred to local governments? Will the private sector be allowed to operate here? When you look at the draft of the law, you can't clearly see the answers to these questions. The general character of the bill already provides a structure for which these uncertainties will be filled with regulations. We know that TCDD has not ordered a new passenger car for Turkey's Car Industry Company since 2004. Since nine years ago, heavy repair cars have been ordered from Turkey's Car Industry Company, including the chassis of the old passenger cars. On the other hand, the TCDD General Directorate announced yesterday that long-distance passenger transport would be done by trains called rails and railways on regional lines. In an interview with the press on 29 March 2013, the director-in-chief of the institution, the 2023 Vision of the TCDD, it was made clear that the institution would provide 180 fast train sets by 2023, 300 electric train sets and a diesel train set, and 8,000 freight cars were not considered to be carried out in cars referred to as "companional" and cheap transportation. This shows that our citizens can make railway transportation for a much higher price in the coming process. It also envisions a partial increase in the number of main line freight trains, with private companies in demand. However, there is a railway operation on one line at 8,324 km, which corresponds to 92 per cent of our railway network as a route. How, then, will the reflections of this increase in cargo transport occur? Will there be incentives and subsidies in non-profit lines to cover revenues in cargo and passenger transport? Or will the European Union's warnings be taken into consideration and be cancelled again, like trains that have been cancelled for various reasons? Or will the passenger be routed to the faster trains, which are more expensive to attract the attention of companies who are interested in high-speed trains as they are today? After this law, will the suburban train business maintain its present structure, or will it turn into a municipal company-TCDD partnership, as on the Ýzmir commuter train? The fact that there is not a single clause in this bill that prevents foreign firms from taking initiative is another indication that public benefit is not considered in drafting the bill, which is the most profitable lines in passenger transport and the setting of prices. Therefore, any Turkish citizen who looks at the content of the bill will be able to understand that the AKP government has drafted this bill in accordance with the wishes of global capital. Because the Turkish nation is now well aware of what the word specialization means because of the AKP government. Therefore, claims that this law is not privatisation do not reflect the facts. Privatisation is the simplest definition of the public handing over part or all of its services to the private sector. When the law was sent to the Commission, its legal status was the state-owned institution. However, the Commission has transformed its legal status into economic state. If such a bill is adopted, the TCDD will now become a company suspended from public service, unofficiated from state privileges, operating on the terms of the free market. The law clearly cannot compete with powerful companies in the sector, given the institutional structure and economic power of the TCDD, with the state's support limited to only five years. This will mean the end of the national transport of the railway, just as it happened to the Netherlands. On the other hand, some of the jokes of Article 7 of this bill have turned the institution into a land office. It is one of the best examples of the real intentions of those who draft the law, which paves the way for its sale or rent to be sold or later used in service and activities, to be transferred to TCDD. In this bill, the institution's history, customs, character, and organization of 150 years in the sector has not been considered. The Republic of Turkey is also a country that is behind the length of the road and the business of the railway transport. The bill did not include issues related to RD studies that would end this setback. On the other hand, the bill of law makes private sector infrastructure investments possible and encourages. Its prediction does not reflect the truth, because "the non-profit transport is part of a public service obligation. Thus, according to the first option, liberalisation of the second option will be relatively low. This statement is a confession that the private sector would prefer only cargo and passenger transport and profitable lines in infrastructure, and that by this law, the public gave up its profits in favour of the private sector. With this bill, TCDD is transformed into economic government thanks by losing its capacity as a public economic institution. Thus, the institution, which will end its privileges, faces the challenge of competing with private sector companies. Dear lawmakers, studies launched with the slogan to make the production more modern and efficient have resulted in the most frequent and most recent accidents in the institution's history of life and loss of goods, and declines in income, cargo and passenger transport every year. Freight transport is down from 7 per cent to 4.5 per cent, and passenger transport is down from 5 per cent to 1.5 per cent. More than 100 million euros per year have been lost in the age of the operating rights of ports owned by the TCDD. Moreover, the Turkish nation has been misinformed in these sales. Although the port sales were said to be designed to modernise TCDD, to create resources for new roads and maintenance, 5793, 60 percent of the revenues were transferred to land roads, 40 per cent to railways. So this bill is no different than any other configuration application. It won't do any good to our country, but it will do more harm than others. Precious lawmakers are another misdirection that Mr. Minister has told the Turkish nation that by ending the institution's monopoly, the private sector is not in a monopoly on the transport of railways today. For almost ten years, private companies have been shipping railways with more than 3,000 cars of their own. Therefore, given the market share of the institution and the private sector, it is already clear what the institution will look like in the future. During 2012, the total freight transport of railways was 25 million,666,441 raw tons/kilometers. The company carried 19,617,584 tons with its 18,164 freight cars, while the private sector carried 6,48,777 tons of cargo in its 3.159 freight cars. Dear lawmakers have been damaged, not only by the nation and its workers, but also by the people who have received state and service from the reconstruction efforts that have been implemented so far. As a result of studies under the name Reconstruction, the number of employees has been reduced by half, while subcontractors have been widely employed and serviceed. With over 5,000 subcontractors employed in the institution right now, the scope of flexible and unsecured working life has been expanded in the institution. In addition, there is no clear and clear information on the situation of non-transferable personnel, staff and positions that will be assigned to TCDD Transport Inc. in this Bill of Law. This bill shows no norm staff application. In this case, it is unclear whether the engineers will be turned over to the laborers, the civil servants, or the TCDD Transporters, both together. When the trains currently employed by institution personnel are rented to private enterprises, the number of unsecured employees in subcontractors will increase, followed by the reduction of the share of TCDD Transport Inc in cargo and passenger transport, so the staff will be more than needed. In the restructuring of the institution, the government cited the European Union's legislation as an example, while before entering the privatisation practices of Germany's legal arrangement that "the transports of the iron roads will never be sold" -- the contrary, the sale of non-moving substances added to Law 5335 has been opened. Dear lawmakers, as a result, this bill has not been drawn up by the needs of the institution nor by the benefit of the public. If this bill is legalized, it will come to us tomorrow as a structure where the symbol of our independence, the TCDD, was eliminated and returned to 1923. Therefore, I declare that we are against the entire bill of the law, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0028par0378	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mr. Fair Wolf, a member of Hakkari on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0029par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the BDP Group regarding the Bill of Law on the Free-of-Train Transport of Turkey 441 rows. I salute you all. Of course, first of all, I think the name of the law proposal should be revised. It is the right thing to prefer the transport of the rail system, rather than the transport of the iron road, because now the railway is just... although here, we are discussing a privatisation policy and a proposal for the revitalisation of a transport sector that the state has long forgotten, put in a state-of-the-art, and particularly in the Marshall Plan, is meant to be destroyed as a whole, but now, the rail transport system has gone far beyond what we call the traditional form of railway transportation. Thus, the arrangement must also be done in this framework, because, after a certain period of time, we will also have to think in this middle plan, in some way, about the rail transport system that the municipalities set up in the urban and mujavir area. So we see that when we look at this dimension alone, we are dealing with an inadequate arrangement. It's a takeover offer, which is an arrangement for the state to take a hand out of a transportation industry that has a history of over a hundred and fifty years, and transfer into private. We are now dealing with a abandonment arrangement left to the use area or savings of private companies. So, TCDD is envisioned to operate as an infrastructure operation on the part of the state-saving railway infrastructure in the national railway structure network, but all other functions are specialized in this bill. The bill is based on a reference to the dissolution of monotheism, but with that reference, it's basically a new monopoly. So, in the private sector, a monopoly has been reopened in this area. In addition, the bill envisions the transfer of buildings and facilities on its body, including the forests, from subsidiaries under the government's administration and savings, to the service and activities of railways, which are favourable by the Finance Ministry, which is also approved by the Ministry, after it has been registered for the treasure, and so is the age of non-modifications. From now on, the stations will be transferred to privates, and they will be asked to be released by special hands. So, as a whole, we are involved with the policy that a network of investments created by the benefit of the public and by the public's own resources should be made up as a whole. We need to clear up your confusion on this. If it's not really about the age of the movers, then it's gotta be clear. But in the current bill, there's an arrangement that envisions the era of this network of investments created by the means of the movers, by public means. In the minister's savings, the minister can hand it over. After he says yes, he won't be able to prevent it. In addition, there is an arrangement for personnel in the bill. There's a very serious picture of the situation of the employed personnel working inside the railway network, which is the rail transport network. Now, basically, his point of view is clear. The state is here -- frankly, the government -- has a desire to get rid of a hump, and we see it very clearly from the statements that members of the ruling party have made in their constituency from time to time. For example, one of them -- I won't give up -- is a valued MP, there are engineers on the State Railways, 3,000 lira plus overtime, but the State Railways are losing every year. It's the people who pay for the damage. When the State Railways were doing so much damage, they needed a scalpel to be thrown away, this one was thrown out. They've got new staff as engineers. The new purchases are 1,300-1. He's paid $400. He's not half as good as the others who do the same work. He says, that's the mentality. How do we get back the rights of the workers, the rights that have been earned? In every arrangement, nothing can be done in this country without an application against the workers. This opens the door for subcontractors, subcontractors, subcontractors. In doing so, one finger of honey has been stolen from the current staff, but as a whole, they're taking back all their earned rights. So once again, we need to emphasize that this practice is an unfair practice. The AK PARTY government wants to retire the current personnel on the railways as soon as possible. They want to retire. Instead, the subcontractor system will take personnel and will force people to work within the system at minimum wage through privatisation. So it'll be a profit, so they'll try to make this business profitable. But cutting down workers' throats, taking a piece of the laborers' table bread, no industry has expanded any sector in the world, and it will not expand any sector in the world, and it will not be enough to bring the industry back to life. On the contrary, if you take the satisfaction of the people who work in this industry, the labor value, the only way you're going to make this sector a center of attraction is to make it an investment area. In the current situation, no one will be able to invest in this sector without guaranteeing their own profits. So this will be a wrong practice, and while you're still on the road, at least stop implementing this wrong personnel employment and subcontract policy in this sector. It's been polished, polished, given motive. He says: "In order to re-enact and strengthen the role of the railway roads, which are decisive in the development and independence of our country, there is a need for a free, competitive, economic and socialised railway sector to be created in line with the European Union (EU) legislation. No one would normally object to this sentence, which is being polished, but it is not done; behind that, a network of investments is being pulled apart. Now, 82 percent of the railways we have here were already built before 1950, and 40 percent of that was done before the republic was founded. You haven't nailed nails in a hundred years, or in the last 60 years, I think there's been a study about 1,200 kilometers, but that's how fast train transportation is introduced to the public. How much of the lives of the people living in this country does this fast train transport project of yours penetrate? It's not a project that affects one in 10,000 people's lives, not one in ten thousand, but it's polished, put in front of the public like this. And there's a sense that you have to do all your projects from west to east. It's an extremely unfair procedure. Turkey is getting 70 per cent of energy sources, subterranean and terrestrial energy sources, 80 per cent from the east, you are making investments from the west to the east. And then you say, "We're developing policies that will eliminate intergalactic inequality." The fact that you've knitted the fast train network between Ankara and Konya is just against advertising. There is no contribution, no plus value to the country's economy, but if you had gone to an investment development between the port of Van-Mersin, then, yes, you would have contributed to the country's economy; you would have been able to transport the economic values there; you would have contributed to the transfer of the mine there. There's no such app available. If we can afford it, we'll go east later and you'll be in the account. Were transportation investments on the roads different from this? No. If the story of the Raven's Tunnel, which turned into a snake story, is told here alone, it sums up the state's last 90-year policies. Why did the current government delay and delay its opening three times? Because he collapsed every time. A week before the opening, a month ago, ten days ago, the Ravens' Pass collapsed, and a new opening date was set. Bitlis Valley, which is the most advantageous for state investments -- and I'll put it in terms of the region -- is the area where the most investments have been taken, I would say -- but as long as I can remember, between Bitlis-Van, business machines are running on the Diyarbakır-Bitlis-Van link road. The government is there, yes, I admit, making contractors rich. Whoever the contractors are on these roads, yeah, makes money, but won't we ever question the fact that a road hasn't been completed for 20 years or ten years? Don't we ever question the collapse of a tunnel three times? What kind of money is it made with? In terms of the railways, I'm telling you now, as a district MP, what you're going to spend here, what you're going to talk about here, what you're going to talk about, if you continue with the normal routine, if it continues with the current routine, it's going to be able to penetrate the life of the city, which I'm a congressman, in at least 20 years, it's going to be able to contribute. And then, while we point to inequality from here, why do you point to this inequality? Just like the 27th government, in that area, there are health clinics being built. At that time, the 27th government -- 1962-63. Minister of Health Yusuf Azizoglu was Diyarbakır MP. Just because there were health clinics in the area at that time, the minister of the same cabinet, why do you build a health clinic there? He says, "Oğuz Bekata has resigned." The segregation mentality of that period is also found in investment projects this period. At that time -- the 27th is the government of Ismet -- different practices of the two ministers of the same government, two mentality approaches. We have a chance to see the same marks today, even when investment planning is being done. When investments are being made, it's how to build a mechanism of attraction. Istanbul-Ankara, Ankara-İzmir, Ankara-Konya, people have now had the chance to travel in three hours, even with their vehicles, seven years ago, but the same distance is 160km, and the distance between Şırnak-Hakkari can travel in four hours. People can leave by spending four times as much time as one third of the distance between Ankara and Istanbul. Why is that? No investments. The roads aren't being built. You've made enough road to make the tank run. No one's ever thought of the railroads there. Why isn't it done? If you strengthen the Van-Mersin line, you don't just connect Turkey with the eastern region, you also strengthen railway transport with four countries, you strengthen the network. You're strengthening the Syrian network, you're strengthening the Iraqi network, you're strengthening the Iranian network, you're strengthening the Armenia network. Here's the attraction center. But investment is the first thing that comes to mind is the west of Turkey. Istanbul; all there is; all there is; all there is is Ankara; all there is is Ismir. Turkey is not just these cities. If you make plans like this, of course we'll get out of here and we'll talk about discrimination. And if you plan against the workers and the needy while you're at it, we'll be standing right here. Turkey needs a change of mind. Yes, we provide social peace, but as long as you don't build social peace on a transformation of mentality, you don't have the chance to perpetuate it. We have to do this together. Actually, we're not doing these reviews today. In the election propaganda of the EC PARTY government, you're putting discrimination in practice here in the election declaration. Open up, look at your investment services propaganda over the map you've created there, and you'll only see the west of Turkey. I know you'll be here in a little while, and we've done this, and we've done that. There was a construction site on Van-Hakkari Road last year at exactly 13 locations, but there were no 13 kilometers. How did this happen? Yes, there is, when you go there, there's always someone trying to make a hole. Have you ever questioned him? Did you stand on it? You didn't ask about the Ravensnapper Tunnel, nor did you ask about it. That's why, overnight, conglomerates evolved in the region, and someone became very rich, right, and these people, who were conglomerated in one year and prospered overnight, also caused problems to become gangrene by sucking up to the government. When you act like this, when you approach like this, you do not have the chance to provide a transformation of mentality in Turkey. What's needed is a transformation of mentality. Yes, economic investments are at the top of that, but we haven't seen the traces of this transformation of mentality, unfortunately, here either. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So you're not doing the right thing, no matter where you're holding it.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0030par0398	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0029par0399	In the past, it is a means of transportation of communists. It has been said, and the railways have been forgotten. Today, they want to be revived as an alternative to oil companies to get rid of that vortex, but the current efforts won't be enough. We should be talking about this with a more balanced, adequate offer. I've said it at first, and we need to figure it out starting with your name.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0030par0401	Mr. Kurt, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0029par0402	We should've gone to the rail system app. These aren't in the offer. So I'd like to say that we have found an inadequacy and a virtuoso. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0030par0405	Third speaker for the groups, İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0031par0408	Mr. President, I'm going to express my views on all of it on behalf of the CHP regarding the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport, 441 rows. In this land, the history of the railroad begins in the last quarter of the 19th century. In the 1870s, Rumeli railways were built. The West's desire to land in the Middle East brings up the Baghdad railway in those years and in November 1888, the Haydarpaşa-Ankara privilege is granted to the Germans. In 1896, the railway was reached by the track. In all of these agreements, the Ottoman State's opinion is not accepted, it is damaged. The Ottomans are given no rights in the land within 20 kilometers of the railroad. The Ottoman state has no rights on its territory for the mines, ports, historical artifacts, historical monuments to come out in archaeological excavations. It's been years since the iron journey. In 1964, in Japan, the Tokyo-Osaka line, capable of speeding 210km per hour, opened to operation. After that, railways, developed for many countries except Turkey, are an important means of transportation for human and cargo transport. While Japan and the world were like this, was it his opinion that the late Turgut Ozal, who had risen to the presidency, said that iron travel was a communist business and would no longer be invested in the railway? We could not even maintain the standard of the Turkish Republic's railways, even though foreign states took advantage of the latest opportunities of technology and developed the railways and presented them to their people. No one noticed? He did, but there were many, many cars and trucks waiting in the factories of the West to be led on the roads of Turkey, especially after Marshall. There are a total of 1,915 km of railway lines in this country, 800,000 square miles, where seven duvets sell us trucks, busses, and most automobiles travel our roads. The main lines, unfortunately, are still 91 per cent single line, 9 per cent double line. Although the AKP came to power in 2002, it was only able to release the Transport and Communication Strategy Report in 2011. In recent years, the government began to sing railway songs, as they saw tire - wheeled transportation was now blocked, and the citizens were also aware of the situation. The lag in the railways is at such a level that the government gives Turkey's target for transport to the railway sector by 10 per cent and 2023 per cent for freight transport. We approve of the findings mentioned in the 2011 Strategy Report and many of the intended goals. As CHP, we've always said that we're going to take care of the railroads in our country and that passenger and freight transport should gain more weight in the railways, and we've written in our programme. Honourable lawmakers now say the government will adopt this law to ensure that the transport of the railway in Turkey will improve and be attractive. Laws and regulations are important, but really mentality and action are more important. The law describes the Turkish Republic's State Railways, which is a hundred and fifty years old on our country's territory, as a state railway, saying that the monopoly must now be restored to a competitive structure. I take it it as an injustice to the institutionalisation of public duty in Turkey that once passenger and freight transport is reduced to 1.5-4.5 per cent in 2012 by railways reaching 50 per cent. This law will split infrastructure and management, and there will be no resource transfer between different business units, the institution structure will be broken, activities will be divided horizontally, non-moving will be sold, employment will be reduced, technical skills will be weakened, and iron roads will be sold in medium and long, of course, to someone. The successful development in the railways of the EU and other developed countries, the surrender of public investment, national R&D, professional operating and especially employee rights, and the care of human resources, is undeniable. This bill has been presented as a text on both the obligations involved in the national programme in the EU process and as a text on the basis of the attempt to avoid criticism and take a step towards the AKP government regarding the obligations that cannot be fulfilled in Turkey's progress reports. With this law, we are not convinced that a national breakthrough can be made in our railways. Economists use the word "freedom" that you put in the title of the law as "liberation" by economists. Those who can't run the public sector in our country have always tried to make it look like a klutz, a profit, a burden, useless, no business. First you're free, then you're special somehow. But who do you specialize in, the native or the stranger? After privatising the new markets called globalization, you give them to the stranger. First you give less than 50 percent, then you give more than 50 percent, the ladder method. After that, you go right and I'll go right. Dear lawmakers, liberalisation should not open the way for privatisations that give concessions to foreigners. There should be no gray matter in the laws in which they are introduced to hide meaning between them. Adjusting the economy and development of a country is not only by invading that country by military means; it has strategies for taking over its economy in gray ways. To overcome the economic crisis, no decision must be made to mortgage the future of the authorities in a hurry to privatise them. Please don't put our country in the position in which Baron Hirsch, the banker, brought down the Ottomans in the 1870s. Freedom and privatisation should not interfere with national industry and RD. It's a question of life for every country. We find it strategically necessary for manufacturers and private entrepreneurs to act in accordance with the national strategies and to do RDD. We find it useful to repeat our concerns that this will escape attention during privatisation activities. The President of the Railway Transport Association had some views published in 2012. It says: "The government is interviewing The Greenbrier Companies to produce a thousand cars a year. "The head of the association, Deutsche Bahn, Schenker Arkas, Rail Cargo, who informs Turkey that it is prepared to produce and produce both transportation and production, says that companies such as companies will transport in Turkey with its own engine and cars. And for that, it means they're waiting for the law. In fast train applications, we see foreign companies selling products to us, such as infrastructure, cars, and locomotives, and starting. So, what are our national companies going to do? TUVASASAS, TULOMSASAS, is our wish that the contribution to the country so far will continue without alienation or increase. See, on November 9, 2005, the contract is signed between TCDD and the Spanish CAF company. The company's bid is $241,653,000 in support of the Spanish Development Fund. Seven years unpayable, fifteen years repayment, twenty-two-year-old loans are 31 instalments, and interest rate is 13 in a thousand. The speed train sets have speeds of 250 kilometers per hour, aluminum hulls, each set has six cars and 419 passenger capacity. Of course, men, foreign companies will provide you with attractive credit opportunities. Their goal is to make money and make you a client who imports technology. They will make the RD, and you will be prepared. And this week, we read an amazing article in the papers. The Chinese company CSR, one of the largest in the world, will build a car factory in Ankara Sincan. So, what happens next? On the one hand, the Spaniards, the Chinese, and the seven duvets after this law comes out, we'll get it ready for electricity, so that it can travel through the railroads that will sell us material. What's it gonna be? What about the workman of this land, the engineer's production, added value, research and development? We have the right to ask that question. If you go with that head, after a while, you will close the doors of TIVASAŞ, TILOMSAS and TIDEMSAD. Let's see what your conscience tells you. Why can't our companies do what these foreign companies, whose names I call them, do? We have a history of 150 years. From now on, all railroad work will be done to strangers? Is this the target of the 2011 Strategy Report, Mr. Secretary? The TCDD recently requested something from local companies. In November 2012, an open tender was announced in the Official Gazette. You know what? The model of the high-speed train, the model that came as a metaphor for some of our deputies, I believe, 2,500 of them... well, good luck, local companies did it. Istanbul Technical University, along with the Ministry of Transport -- in the Main Plan Strategy of Transport -- says that in order to ensure the healthy development of our railway transport and sustainability of this development, the restructuring must be carried out with a modern and effective administration and a competent staff. Now, with this law, Mr. Secretary, how are you going to establish a competent staff and an effective administration within the TCDD, by handing over trained, competent personnel to pension, weakened human resources? Of course, by bringing subcontractors to ejaculated services and fields, just like the Postal Law. In 1959, the number of employees at TCDD is 70,000, and in 2010, 28 thousand - including temporary workers. In 2004, Belgium had 10.9 per kilometres per kilometre; Turkey had 3.2. It turns out that it's going to get smaller and there's going to be another way. There are some recommendations in this report, it says: "In the short term, passenger transport cannot be asserted by existing lines. Therefore, you will develop a method of operating with a priority of cargo transport. In addition to the adoption of the concept of developing new investments in the long term and an advanced transport of cargo, especially towards combining transport, a high-speed railway should be aimed at carrying a passenger with an active 400-600km intervals, economic confirmation and almost superior to the road and the airway, says the report. The railway, based on 2023, should be targeted for about 20 percent of cargo transport in the same corridor as the road. Again, in the report, according to the event conditions of the high-speed railway and the TEN-T measurements, it would be appropriate for the first axis developed in the study -- developed in the study for this report -- from the 7 transport corridors and especially from Istanbul to Ankara-Sivas-Malatya, which extends towards Malatya, Kars and Van. It is called the ITÜ report. The Marmaray is an investment that will provide propulsion. Again, this is the identification in the report. Unfortunately, it's very interesting that the Marmaray crossing has remained on line two. So, the tube has three lines outside the tunnel, so when you enter Marmaray, there will be two lines. So how does it work? Three lines down on line two? It's like this: when the freight train arrives -- international or national transport train -- it won't go into Marmaray during the day. What's he gonna do? It will wait until midnight at the entrance of the tunnel, after midnight, the commuter and passenger trains will stop, and then the freight train will pass. Excuse me, we have 160 universities, we have scientists, we have experts, they left three lines in the tube. Dear lawmakers, as stated in the Ninth Development Plan, "the building of heavy transports is a strategic goal in the transport sector." Apart from the fact that our country's geographical structure is a requirement, it is an economic approach that everyone will agree and approve, especially in terms of the development of exports and the advantages it will provide for the competitive world prices, in terms of transportation costs. However, the strategic importance of the policy of supplying and competition in justice and macro decisions is addressed, especially in the AKP version, with a new approach to public enterprise and planning hostility, rather than individual, micro decisions of enterprises. In other words, the same prejudice appears to prevail in this bill. According to this prejudice, the solution to every problem the public has caused is private enterprise, but private initiatives should not spend money, not put capital in solving these problems. That's the essence of the law. Partnerships with the private sector are being recycled as a private sector financing method in sectors that require significant investment through the AKP, where the state finances private sector projects and initiatives under public-private co-operation models. That's what this law is trying to accomplish. Because of this understanding, the bill is in front of us as a private transport project, with the government directly taking over infrastructure investments for the main line, and this type of financing model is placed in the middle for business activities, and the substantial amount of incentives to be covered from the budget. Dear lawmakers, under this law, the TCDD Transport Agency is established as an infrastructure operator with the identity of a public economic institution subject to Law Code 233, while TCDD's joint partnership with KH3 is being established as part of the law. The report (DEA) report, which includes the assessments of the Ministry of Transport Maritime and Communication's draft, has not been distributed to the commissioners. When did that come in? I'm afraid he arrived during the commission meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, for the reasons that we have explained so far about this law brought by the government, I have stated before the Supreme Assembly that we are opposed to the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport in general and in Articles.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0032par0437	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. In the name of the individuals on the bill, Mr. Haydar Akar, the MP of Marseilles. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0033par0441	Mr. President, we're going to talk about the esteemed MPs, the State Railways of the Republic of Turkey. Today, as you've always done, you've brought law into Congress to privatize a national institution, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, and I'm here to express my personal opinions. Now, when I say the State Railways, we need to collect it under three main topics. One can be described as the time before the Republic and until 1950 of the Republic, and then as the time after 1950. Now, when we look at these periods, when we look at the pre-Republic period, we see some of them, some of them by foreigners, some of them by Ottomans. Of course, later, after the republic and the Islamic borders are drawn, some of them are divided into railways owned by the Ottomans, others run by foreigners. Now, every time the Prime Minister speaks, he says, "Did you put a nail in this country? What have you done for this country? I want to briefly sum up what we do for the railways only when we talk about the railways: We bought the railways that foreigners had run in Turkey, some 2,400km. When did we buy it? So, from 1923 to 1934, we took over these 2,400km of railways from foreigners, bought them again and nationalized them. On top of that, a new road was made between 1923 and 1950 in this Republic period at 3,200 km. Now, these, yes, are the investments of the Republican People's Party -- including your ancestors, including the Republican People's Party -- which paid the Ottoman debt at the time -- the Republican People's Party, which was again out of poverty, out of war, out of the War of Salvation, and out of foreign debt. You're laughing. I want you to listen to this.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0034par0449	You know what I'm laughing at?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0033par0450	What are we supposed to do with these? We all have to take care of them. What are we supposed to do with all this? We should be proud to tell you. But the country's Prime Minister says: "What have you done?" You put a nail in this country? We're putting that nail away. I hope my speech will grow, and at the end of my talk, I will tell you about your nails, how you hammered nails into the land of this country, into people's brains. Of course, there were concessions given to the French, the Germans and the British at that time. They were so privileged to build railways that they had the privilege of using mines on the right and left of the railway. They were doing it in places that were completely raw. They were doing it to move the raw materials the British, the Germans, the French wanted or needed in their own country. This was done at that time. We have already said that between 1923 and 1950 there are some 3,200 km [3,200 km]. As I said at this time, we paid off the Ottoman debt. During this period, 1 lira of foreign debt was not borrowed, so that we could build these State Railways, we did it by our own means, and we nationalized the railways along with the ports of foreigners. Now, I'd like to give you a few examples of these: the State Railways were established in 1924, and the Eskişehir railway plant was built in 1925. I mean, what was it that we needed to build our own railroad? Factories were built to produce Travers and such materials. In 1928, the Anatolian Railway Company was purchased from foreigners. In 1928 Haydarpaşa-Eskişehir-Konya Road and Yenice-Mersin Roads were built. In 1929, Mersin-Adana opened the roads of Anatolia-Bedad, Mersin-Tarsus in 1924. In 1929, the port of Haydarpaşa was purchased from foreigners.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0035par0455	Mr. Haydar, come today.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0033par0456	I'm coming. You're always talking about 60 years ago, and now I'm doing the same as your Prime Minister, 60 years ago. In 1929, the railways of Kütahya-Emirir, Fevzipaşa-Gölbaş opened. Ankara-Sivas opened in 1930. In ten days you could go to Sivas, and in one day you had to go to Sivas. Now, as you're telling me, we're going to take the fast train in two hours. I find it very accurate, and I interpret it as a job that needs to be done. It was done in 1930 by Kayseri-Song. In 1931, Bursa-Mudanya was bought from foreigners, and Lakehead-Malatia was built. Samsun-Sivas was made in 1932, and Kütahya-Balıkesir was made in 1932. In 1933... going on, the roads were made to 1938, the distance was 3,200 kilometers, and 1 lira was not borrowed. The Ottoman debt has been paid, and I'm telling you this in particular, these investments have been made with state resources. Well, I'm coming to the present now. Mr. Ahmet, I'm coming especially today. Now let's take a look at today, folks, what's been done today. You have been in power for ten years, since 2002, since 2003. It's 888 kilometers of high-speed railroads. The only thing you're angling for is the high-speed train of the State Railways. Now, I've told you his story before, if you want me to tell it again. In the 2000s, in the end of the 1999s, when Oktay Vural projected at the beginning of the 2000s, he began with a loan from the Spanish when he became Assistant Secretary of the Faik Öztrak Treasure, and in 2003 you completed the project that should have been completed in 2009. Right, the need for a fast train, but you don't have a success story to tell. You've only indexed the big railroads to the fast train, and as a result of the fast train, you've made the Eskişehir line today. Our train goes to Iconia, and goes to Sivas. We appreciate that. I wish all over Turkey -- my friend from BDP had just spoken -- that the fast train would go. But the State Railroad isn't just about the fast train, you guys. Look, since 2003, you've said that we're going to build a train line that's 10,000 kilometers fast, so the cost is 367 billion liras. Okay, there's nothing here, you'll find the money and you'll build the fast train, you'll make Turkey so much more in debt. You didn't do it, you didn't manage to borrow it, and you didn't find it. The resources you've set aside are 192 billion dollars in 2003. In the end, I'm saying that in order for this project to happen, we need an investment of $30 billion a year. So, how much are you saving? You're giving $11 billion to all the railroads, the Ministry of Transport, and the source you're missing is 52 percent of the time of your ten-year government, so the rate of fact is 52 percent, so the rate of investment is going to happen. So, what did you do with this source? You've built the 888-mile-per-hour train line. Okay, the number of low passengers in your time of power has increased, increased as fast trains started to kick in, the number of passengers has increased. And the State Railways are only responsible for carrying passengers? No. The goal of the State Railways is to carry cargo. What do you need to carry a load? Turkey must be knitted with iron nets all over it, so you must complete the shortcomings of the Republic period in your time. Were you able to complete it? It's a big no. When you look at statistics and all the data, you see that cargo transport is not increasing. Now, as a hoax, the Minister may say that he came out here a little bit later and increased by kilograms, but he's not increased by a percentage of cargo transport. Do you know how long it's been? I'll tell you right now.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0036par0466	Did you get on the fast train, the fast train?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0033par0467	I grew up on trains, don't worry. Yes, as of 2010, shipping on the sea roads was 5,1; 16,1 in 1980; 7.1 when you took over. That's where you bring the sea routes. It was 10,6, in 1980, carrying cargo on the railways. You know, the way you talk, the way you talk, the way you talk, the way you talk. 5.3 in the 2000s; 5.3 in the 2010s; another 5.3 in the 2010s; not a gram more. It started at 73 percent on its way to land, up to 89 per cent in 1980, up to 2010. Why is it 89 percent in 2010? Because the imperialist is suppressing capital, more trucks, more sales. He says, and when you should actually knit Turkey with iron nets -- of course they need to be done -- but more importantly, as a strategy, you encouraged road transport. Now, you can say that we've made double roads; in Turkey, deaths, traffic accidents have decreased. Look, statistics, deaths and traffic accidents have increased more. We're not against these things, Mr. Secretary, but we're not against them, but we're better at keeping track of the past than telling honey and honey about them, telling the truth to the truth, and making sure that the Turkish people get better services. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0037par0473	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Now, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Mr. Buli Yıldırım... [[AK PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed members of the High Assembly, the esteemed MPs; today, in our General Assembly, we are discussing a very important bill for railways. This bill is about the liberalisation of railway transport. So, with a history of one hundred and fifty-seven years, he served the Ottomans, before the establishment of our republic, he provided the most important infrastructure of our Liberation War, the logistics of our republic, and, with the establishment of the republic, the major roads of Ataturk (Iron) promote the community and prosperity. As he said, we are talking about our organization of one and a half centuries, which has devoted to Turkey's development and development in those difficult years. The railways are not only a transport infrastructure sector in Turkey; the railways are also the culture of this country; they are the folklore of this country; they are the symbol of the independence of this country. In the Ottoman Empire, we had a railway road over 4,000 kilometers, in Ottoman territory. When we retreated, we had 4,136 kilometers to go. Yes, the young Republic of Turkey, out of war, out of human resources, out of financial resources. The Great Ataturk has launched, even continued to die, until 1946, many of the projects that have begun have been completed, declaring that development, prosperity, and the railways will only be the biggest engine in the development of this country. During that time, the total number of roads reached 3,764 kilometers, so in 20 years over 4,136 kilometers, there were 3.764 kilometers of railways in twenty years. In 1950, we see a switch in the railway industry. The change here: the world's automotive winds are blowing, the automotive industry is storming the whole world, and so, land-road transportation is at the forefront. Meanwhile, the railroads are forgotten, they're forgotten. The automotive sector is in 1950, not only in Turkey, but in the world as well, while the developed countries of the world are investing in the ground road infrastructure, while also investing in the railways to ensure balance. The difference is that the campaign that continued from the founding of the Republic to the 1950s until 1946 was not carried out after 1950, and that is the essence, the truth. How do we know that? The total amount of road between 1950 and 2000 is 975 km.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0038par0481	1950 to 2012? It's made between 1950 and 2002. Now, if we compare these, 1923-1950 was 134 kilometers per year, and between 1950 and 2002, the amount of road each year was 18 kilometers. Here, I'll tell you the difference between what's done and what's done. So, there's a neglect here, there's a oblivion here, the fate of the railroads. Neglect or preference?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0039par0485	Conscious, Mr. Secretary. Now, sir, of course, I mean the past -- what you say -- you criticize the past. And when you say, I mean, I'm not going in that direction, is it a conscious choice? But it's always the wishful thinking, not the suizan, but the result. The result is that the railroads continue to fall back, the blood loss, the railroad that the country needs to carry the burden of, or rather, our railways that carry the burden of this historic institution have become the burden of the country, that's the essence of it. This is the result, we all know it, we see it. Well, does it have to go on like this? Of course, it shouldn't go on like this. Because the railways are available to carry more at once, both economically and in many ways, the safest way to carry more than once, after sailing, after shipping. Therefore, we need to improve the railways. Why are you investing in the iron roads of any Turkish citizen, no matter where he lives in this hall or Turkey? I didn't see it, and we can't see it. It's a waste to say otherwise. We had a statistic last year, about the roller coasters. We said to the citizen: "What do you think of this?" They said a lot of things, that the satisfaction rates, the prestige of the fast train, the position of our country against the foreign countries, but there's something very interesting to me. The citizen says that no matter what happens, there must be a railroad and a fast railway all over Turkey. This is a very important thing. This is the identification of the citizen and is 76 per cent. This is a very proud thing for us, our people want the railroad. That's what we were saying when we were students, but they said, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0040par0490	You were a communist then, too. You didn't join the AKP later, but you were a communist.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0041par0491	Not only that, you said other things with it. Now, sir, of course...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0042par0493	The Communists never said anything like that. Come on.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0043par0494	But then you were a military communist. Let me clean this up. You guys talk all the time, I don't have that kind of time.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0044par0496	Mr. Secretary, let's cut down on the lectures and finish the law. Let's shorten it right away. I've made a reminder, not a lecture, that I'm coming to the law. Sir, the law is that the railroad is now a government-owned and treasured organization with a monopoly. What do we do with this law? We divide the railroads into infrastructure and upper structures. Infrastructure, TCDD, continues as it is today. A company called TCDD Transport Inc. is being established again as a KCE for the upper body. And that's the SOT status again. The task of this new company is just transportation, passenger transport and cargo transport. Building stations, fixing roads, looking at signals, running hospitals, running post offices, building training facilities, that's not going to happen, just transportation. As a TCDD, the current institution will do the signal work by monopoly all over Turkey. Because it's a matter of law enforcement, we're not opening this place up, it's a monopoly, and it's under government control. It'll also allow the infrastructure to be kept in use at all times. At the same time, companies with adequate conditions for TCDD transport will be able to transport the existing railway lines, so there is a liberalisation coming. How is that possible? It has its basics and its methods, and its concerns will be determined by the Ministry of Transport Railroad Editing General Directorate. When they use the lines, they're going to pay per mile for a specific schedule when they're transporting the lines. These will go to the railways, to the TCDD, and they will create resources for road maintenance, road construction; that is the essence. So, while TCDD is doing this, it's doing a lot of damage to its work today, will these services be removed? That could be the question. This will not be removed, it will be imposed on a public service obligation, and those whose income is lower than the cost of this job will receive the difference from the source put in the Transport Ministry's budget again. So public service will continue to be done no matter what the cost. That's what was brought in as a matter of fact. One additional thing: someone wants to build a railroad, for example, let's say he wants to build a railway between Gulluk and China, where he can build a railway to the port of Roseluk, where he will carry the mine. He's going to do this railroad, but he's going to do his signal work and so on, and he's going to be part of the national system. If he wants to run infrastructure, if he's doing it himself, transportation has to open up to other people, so not only are the state lines open, private sector lines have to be opened the same way. That's what comes with the basics. No change in personnel status, no loss of rights. According to their majors, some of them will remain in TCDD, while some of them will continue to conduct transportation at the new company they are doing today. In addition, if they want to retire for a certain period of time, if they retire, there will be an additional payment on the voluntary, entirely optional, 15 per cent to 40 per cent -- pension bonus. Instead, new, younger friends will be taken and employed, and human resources will be prepared for the industry. In drafting this law, a very long shift has been spent. Dozens of experts, confederates, friends from the General Directorate of the Railways, our friends from the Ministry, have done a very thorough work, studied the examples of another country one by one, successful examples, failed examples, learned lessons from them, all came to our Commission today. This has been discussed in our commission and in the subcommittee. There were contributions there, criticisms there. There were also the necessary briefings, and today he has come before you to the General Assembly, ready for your approval. At each stage, I would like to thank all members of the Commission, especially those who have contributed to the commission's work, who have been critical, and I would like to present to you the Honorable President. I also say that any suggestions and criticisms you make in the General Assembly will be answered in all detail, sincerely. What's that gonna do? This law, in a nutshell, will allow more effective use of the railways. We're going to use the current line more effectively, so let's know this once. What does that mean? Our transport costs will go lower, our competitiveness will increase, the cost of transportation will at least be reduced to a certain degree in pencils that generate the cost of improving trade in the competition of the growing country. It has been said here that nothing has changed in the railways in the last ten years. In fact, I admit it was said politically. What has changed in the railways? From Ankara to Eskişehir, Ankara to Iconya, from Eskişehir to Iconya, our citizens see and express their gratitude and appreciation, as well as their criticism. The road has been renovated, including a hundred-year-old roads that haven't been touched for 7,300 kilometers. There's a massive electricity project going on right now. At the same time, we've put a lot of speed into signalling. In the last decade, we've not only renovated the railroad, we're not building the new railroad, we're also building the local railway industry in Turkey. Turkey now laid the foundation for a factory to build subway vehicles in Ankara just two days ago. We make roller coasters, we make regular train tracks, we make scissors, we make bindings, we make traverses, we build train sets. We exported to Bulgaria, exported to Thailand, exported to Germany. We're making the latest engine production with Americans; it's the best product in Europe this year. The railroads continue to work in this way, with the resources available. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If this law comes out, with your support, I'm sure the railroads will continue to make the face of our country, of our nation, and will be able to serve more effectively with its other comrades, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0045par0513	Minister, you have one more minute. Say something about those kids in Turkish Airlines. That's all the stoves went out. Let's talk about the railroads today and talk about... You have 50 seconds. Give them hope, do something nice. 500 stoves have gone out. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0046par0518	Thank you, Minister. The last speaker on behalf of his people is Mr. Hasan Hami Yıldırım, Burdur MP. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0047par0522	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Legislature for the liberalisation of railway transport. I salute your high council. Since we're discussing a law on railroads, first of all, I'd like to thank the iron travelers of this country, who have worked so far on the country's railways, trying to turn the wheel, to make the train work. I am grateful and grateful to our late Behic Erkin and his friends, who organized the Turkish Republic Railways in a modern sense, taught our people the iron traveling profession by raising an iron passenger belt in the monopoly of foreigners, and then became the first vice president of the railways that iron travellers considered to be their father, followed by the deputy of Nafia, the late Paris during World War II. In the same way, I also bless the disciples of Behic Bey, the iron passenger belt in the early years of the republic, who was incredibly excited about every inch of the tunnel, every inch of the rail. I believe that today's iron passengers, who have laid out today's high-speed railway lines, making it a sure target for us to make one more road of our current line by 2023, will be known again 90 years from now, a hundred years from now, with grace and gratitude under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I welcome today's iron passengers. Mr. President, the matter of the railroad is a matter of fate to our nation, unlike any other country in our country. Because the most efficient, human, social responsibility of the Turkish nation's modernisation movement is the railway move. Looking at it today, the issue may not be so easy to understand. See, in this country, for the first time, we have hundreds of towns that have first met the hot water network, the loaf bread, the pharmacy, the medicine, the doctor, the book, the cinema, the theater, the environment, through the railways. The generation before us knows health trains, library trains, movie trains. Every city that crosses the railroad has developed around the train station, the busiest street in the city, the streets of the station where its pulse beats. In this geography, especially from the early years of the republic, every square inch of railway has been the hand, foot, eye, ear of our human being. Every son of a country who went into the army was given a free train travel document under the name of "lusüsüsüsüss," and all kinds of population movements were made by iron, and the country, as in the modernisation process, lived largely because of the railways. The train has become more than a means of transportation, it's almost a member of the family. This vital function of the railways, unfortunately, has been weakened from the 1940s, no railway investments, has become unsustainable and the face of our country, unfortunately, has been abandoned to its own state. Until when? Until the AK PARTY comes to work. Here we have high-speed train lines today. Today, we are in the world's top 10th edition of many railway industry products. No one could have imagined that high-speed trains between Ankara and Konya would run as if they were full. No one would dare build hundreds of miles of high-speed railways while I'm having this conversation right now. It's the work of the horizon, the job of stability, the work of service. Look, in today's polls, most of our people want high-speed train lines to continue, no matter what the cost. In other countries, those who take the high-speed train find the high-speed train in our country more comfortable, better quality. The whole of Turkey has recently witnessed such statements. As proud as our nation is, it is proud of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which came out of its heart. We're discussing a law today. So we say: just as the government does infrastructure on the roads, if it does airports on the airlines, let the government continue to make infrastructure on the railways. Let the government do business, and let the private sector do it. Let the government and the private sector join hands in the ministry, let the railways carry more passengers, carry more loads, serve more of our people, as in the developed countries. That's what the law brings, folks. There are those who call it specialization. They're wrong, it's not a privatisation. TCDD, with the law, as infrastructure and management to make it better, two public institutions, I stress, will continue in the form of two public institutions. Only obstacles to the private sector's ability to run railways are being removed, and private sector companies with competencies are being cleared for running trains. The government's organizing traffic, the government's giving the certificate again. No iron passenger, no railroadman, has lost anything of his rights, and those who have just joined the railroad family will have the same rights. TCDD Transport Inc, responsible for operating with TCDD in charge of infrastructure, will continue to invest and operate as a public institution. There is no change in the status of interconnected partnerships, no loss of status for iron passengers, as the sector develops, there will be status gains. This is a transportation democracy, my friends. With the law, with new businesses entering the sector, the launch capacity of the railways will be used. There are several trains passing by a day, leaving the country and our transportation at a loss. While drafting the bill, transportation policies in the world have been taken into account. Examples in European countries where the railway was developed have been studied. The law is the legal and administrative subset of the concept of traveling to the future for innovative railways. This is a good service for the nation, my friends. If we have a friend who is not on board, let him travel a high-speed train between Ankara-Eskişehir or Ankara-Konya, Eskişehir-Konya, photograph of those passengers is a photograph of Turkey. I wish the law to be a blessing and auspicious, and I sincerely believe that our iron-road move, which has gained great momentum, will grow further by this law. My dear friends, as I finish my words, I would like to remind you that there was a time when the black train would be delayed, and perhaps it would never come. Today, the fast train would come quickly, and let's hurry. I congratulate Mr. Minister Bakili Yıldırım. I congratulate his team. I salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0048par0541	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. Now, according to the 81st and 91st Articles of the Civil Code, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0049par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Antalya is the only province without a railway connection, although it has a large port. The motions have been unanswered for months. From time to time, the fast train arrives as the AKP's propaganda. It's called "The Fast Train." But there is no nail. Will the train come to Antalya? What's been done about it so far? What's the route going to be, and what's it come to? Does this mean the private sector will make the roller coaster as part of the liberalisation? When will the Anthalian get on the fast train? Also, will there be a railway connection project to the east of Antalya, to Serik, Manavgat, Alanya, Gazipaşa, or such a project be prepared? Such a project can contribute seriously to Antalya transport. Are you going to take a step forward on this? How are you going to make EXPO (exPO) without iron? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0050par0551	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0051par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. What I want to know from the Minister is how much of the Azerbaijan-Baku-Tiflis-Kars railway line, which will connect the Turkish world to Turkey, is now finished and when will it all be finished? I want to know about this. Secondly, the roads in Amasya, Tokat, Erzincan, in this region we call Kelkit Valley, have not yet been finished. I want to know when this path will be finished, or how much of it is finished now, when it will all be finished. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0052par0557	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0053par0559	Mr. Secretary, the Izmir subway has been applying for seven months on the rise of discovery. I've been following the PM's office for a month, and they said a few ministers were missing their signature on this discovery increase. Every Monday, the Council of Ministers meets. You're packing, but I'd like to know why these signatures are missing. Second, I was in Bingol, at the weekend. I visited the districts of Bingöl Seven and Karliova. And I found out that there were over five thousand men, and that the seven of them dwelt in Erzincan, and dwelt there. We want to know when the road between Erzincan and the seven of them will be made. And we're glad to hear that the road between the Seven-Karliova is being auctioned off. Can you tell me about the construction of the road between seven and Erzincan? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0054par0562	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Can...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0055par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. In your ministry over ten years, you've signed world brands like Turkish Airlines, double roads, tunnels, highways, fast trains, subways, airports that exceed the target of 15,000km. How did you manage to find such a large source when the Ministry budget went bankrupt in 2002, when you received the Ministry? Also, where is Ankara-Kırkkale-Yerköy's fast train route? I'd appreciate a heads-up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0056par0568	Thank you, Mr. Can. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0057par0570	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as much as we're talking about Turkish railway transportation, there's an answer that the people of Tripoli are waiting for. The question is: What is the final state of the southern freeway that will open Tripoli to the south after Tripoli became a major city? Is there a study of him? It's also said that there was a tender for the legal tangent road, a second way, which was written in the press. Can you tell me about that, too? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0058par0574	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0059par0576	Mr. President, we haven't been able to answer a written question motion that we've referred to our Minister before, so I'd like to read a few questions from there. The job of the Marmaray Bosphorus Pass was tendered in July 2010, when the CR1 (Banliyö Line Recovery and Electromechanic Systems) was cancelled in 2006. What are the reasons for the CR1 contract to be cancelled? When the CR1 contract was launched, what was the scheduled deadline? How much work has been done between June 2007 and July 2010 regarding CR1 and how much credit has been paid? Is it true that after CR1 was canceled, the total contract price under CR3 was re-upped as 1 billion euros on 26 October 2011? With a contract under the name CR3, how much did the contractor do, and how much did he get? Is the price difference going to be paid at this point? Are new jobs and additional costs envisioned outside the total business schedule of the CR3 job?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0058par0578	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0060par0580	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, privatisation or liberalization is the law you brought in. Then two things happen. I can give you a lot of examples. First, employees' wages and social rights are dropping. In particular, we know the difference between a subcontractor and a staffed employee who served in subcontractor work. Second, the price of service is rising. The price from the services provided after liberalisation or privatisation is increasing, so the employee's income is dropping, the public's burden is increasing. With this law, will the privatisation or the liberalisation of the railways result in such a result? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0061par0585	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0062par0587	Thank you, Mr. President. In June 2011, in Station Square, Mr. Prime Minister (Mountains) said that Adana was taking the fast train. He said that before the 2011 elections, all of Adana's "billboards" were called "Addanal," and you were on the bright, fast train." The announcements were hung. But the Adanan had a speed ride. You're already advertising the roller coaster you're bringing back in 2023, 2030, 20 years ago? My second question is, before the 2011 elections, Omar Çelik went to Aladağ, and we're doing the blinding road. I'm instructing you, the dozers are going down. He said, "It's been three years, there's no funding." There are no vehicles, no money... between Aladağ and Akören, Mr. Secretary. They're there, they're starting now, it's been three years, it's still there. So you're making these promises before the election? And then there's the Adana-Karastone road. During your ten-year rule, you haven't made the road to Karatas, the district of Adana, which sailed for ten years. At this rate, you'll probably make the 40-mile drive in thirty-forty years? I mean, this has got to be over, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0063par0591	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Silver...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0064par0593	Sir, the railways are a cheap area in Turkey, not attractive as they are now. It takes a lot of investments to be charming, and to be attractive to investors, it takes a lot of freight to be high on the railroad. Now, you're showing examples of the Eskişehir-Conya lines. Prices are cheap, the government built the infrastructure. Now, what you're saying is: let the private sector enter under such large investments of substructure. Prices will be so cheap. It is not possible, you may be disappointed. There's no telling if there's still an investor on the third throat bridge. There could be disappointment in this. In such a critical sector, infrastructure is the work of the state in a strategic sector. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0063par0595	Thank you, Mr. Silver. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0065par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Reshad has asked about some of the Baku-Tiflis-Kars; I want to ask about his Kars-Igs-Naks-Naks. Because we Iğdırans look forward to the immediate connection of the railway to the Turkish world. Can you give me a date on that? Secondly, Iğdır is a province bordering three countries, and unfortunately, Turkey is the sixth largest in traffic accidents. Both the Iğdır-December and the Iğdır-East-Bayuth roads pass through the city. Is there, therefore, a plan for taking this out of the city in the future, and at the same time, can other measures be taken within the city, at least until it is taken out of the city? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0066par0601	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0067par0603	Mr. Secretary, whatever's in front of you is falling apart when the high-speed train lines are being built. In Izmit Cumhuriyet neighborhood, because the area is so narrow, the work is done -- and that area is the most damaged area in the 1999 earthquake, where there is work day and night -- it's doing great damage to the houses right now. The neighborhood and its head are making an effort to take care of it, but there was no positive results. I'd appreciate it if you'd take care of that. We need to avoid any unpleasant events that may be there in the future.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0066par0604	Mr. Akar, thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0068par0606	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Antalya had previously decided to nationalize the General Directorate of Highways for the Western Environment Road. Why is this decision not carried out? Why is this work not being done that will contribute to Antalya's problem of traffic? When will the idea of shooting the bird of tea with the stone of tea be given up? Doesn't the AKP government have money to spend on Antalya? That's what I'm asking. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0069par0609	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Secretary, have them come in. Thank you. Mr. Acar asked about the Antalya Speed Train Project, and asked about the route. There are two routes to Antalya: one from Isparta-Burdur, the route that came from Opium. The other is a route from Antalya to Iconium, where it leads to Nevşehir-Kayseri. These are projects within their 2023 target. At the moment, project studies, route studies are under way. A railway is also planned to transport heavy passengers in their 2023 destinations between Alania and Antalia. We've started construction of the west freeway on the Antalya freeway, known to man. However, we've had some problems with publicisation, so there's been a slowdown, and we're trying to figure it out. Mr. Baku-Tiflis-Kars asked how the work at the Railway Project was going. This is, you know, the three countries' joint project. The project has different percentages of progress on the Georgia side, on the Azerbaijan side and on Turkey's side. As a matter of fact, the average rate of progress is about 60 percent. Our goal, if all goes well, is to finish the line at the end of this year, take the first half of next year to try out. We have completed 95 percent of the roads in the Kelkit Valley. The work we're doing now is mainly hot asphalt work, where our work is largely completed. Mr. Pine, the Izmir subway discovery increase, the 40 percent discovery increase itself, as you know, is subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. We've been tracking this issue since the day it arrived at the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, and it's now confirmed by our presidency; it's gone as of the day before, so it'll probably be approved today or tomorrow. Seven Erzincan roads are a way that I know. It's a tight area of security, but we've been able to improve it within a 10km radius. We'll do the improvement of the other parts in the coming years, including our plan. Mr. Can, you've mentioned projects regarding Turkish Airlines and railways. Thank you. It is clear that Turkish Airlines have arrived in ten years, the 3rd largest outgoing airline in the world, the third largest in the world. Just two days ago, 137 planes signed a new purchase agreement. Sir, in fact, there have been 25 billion euros invested in the railways so far in ten years. Sources are the same resources, people's taxes. Our country's added value is not going to interest, it's going to invest. Turkey has confidence and stability. So now we can divide the resources we've given here into more investments. Mr. Canalioğlu, we've made a tender for the Kurani Boulevard. It's a hard road, 18 kilometers. You know, there are some very serious nationalizations, but the south freeway is just a little bit later, and right now, legal Avenue alone is worth $500 million. So we're going to do that first.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0070par0621	It suits the Black Sea, Minister. After that, it's between our plans for the middle and long-term southern freeway. Mr. Eyidoğan, since the Marmaray CR1 contractor failed to fulfill his French-Turkish partnership obligations, his contract has been revoked and his court is currently under international investigation. It's a FIDIC contract. So, money rates, progress rates, as you can appreciate, I don't have any information at the moment, so I'm going to pass it on to you. Instead, of course, there was another tender. This time a Spanish contractor is a project with a European Investment Bank loan. I'll give you the details on these as well. The contract on price hikes around here is strictly based on FIDIC rules. In that framework, a price update can be made on management flaws or price hikes. That's the way it is. Mr. Chancer, now, this liberalization, that's not what we're saying, it's not privatisation, but whatever you call it, we're protecting the rights of employees. Do you have a subcontractor? Yeah, it's everywhere. This is the truth of Turkey. However, there is such a service for security and cleaning only because railways require expertise, and in other technical matters, staff staff must be employed. Of course, when we're in competition like this, at prices, we'll only be able to set the upper limit when we need to, other than that, we won't interfere, we'll be able to set the upper limit. We'll also subsidize the difference in what we want, regardless of the cost, in the state where public duty is required, so we're going to want to keep the expeditions going somewhere. The system, the law is based on it. I'll buy it. Mr. Yilmaz, the Adana express train is a project on our 2023 program. This year, Mersin-Adana has been cured, you know, and there's been a growing number of expeditions, short notice. In the direction of Gaziantep from Adana, there is a Fevzipaşa Pass near Kahramanmarash Narlı, where we begin this year. There, we begin to heal that line, and in the years to come, we will continue it both by Adana and Antwerp, so that this project will be carried out. I don't have it in my head right now, Aladag-Akören. Adana-Karastone Road is an important road. Unfortunately, we had some very serious publicization problems there, too. That's why he's grown up, but we're gonna finish it right away. Mr. Silver, the railroad is not attractive... It's just that I didn't get the memo...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0071par0630	It's not attractive right now. I got it. Regarding railways, it is: In the making of these, primarily, the law here will liberalise cargo transport, which means that cargo lines can be made or operated by private sectors or current lines can be used primarily. The application for passenger transport will take more time, and I want to stress this in particular, and Eskişehir-Ankara, Ankara-Konya, as you say, is an exception. No one would invest that in this price margin. It's a business that we do because it's in the hands of the public, in a sense, because we don't include investment costs in business costs. In that sense, you're right. In choosing the lines, my investment plus business will be considered as a whole, profitability feasibility accounts. At this point, if there's a need for a line to be built, if we want to do it, there's a chance that if we need a passenger guarantee, you'll be able to finance it by guaranteeing cargo, as on the bridge, as in airports. There was a third bridge contract, we're laying the foundation in May, and there's no problem with his financing. So the tender for the third bridge was fine, so now it's clear? For the bridge? Yeah. It's done, it's done, it's done, it's done. For 11 years, it was done as a do-and-work environment, so the work place was delivered, and the work began. Mr. Acar... we ordered the roller coaster, sorry. Mr. Oğan, the Iğdır-Nakçıman job, as you know, is a joint project between us and Azerbaijan. There's a request for this project to be done on both sides, but you have to appreciate that both countries have to decide simultaneously. We await the decision of Azerbaijan. With regard to lğdır, we will look at the road work, and we will take measures according to it, which, frankly, raises traffic accidents, what is the problem there. I got my note. Mr. Akar, Istanbul... Mr. Haydar, are you listening? Give me your ear.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0072par0643	I'm all ears. All right. Now, Istanbul-Eskişehir speed train work continues very quickly between Köseköy-Gebze. You know very well what a tight route we're working on down there. And we're competing with time, and we have a problem with that. That's why we're having some problems, but the local authorities, thank God, are in serious co-operation with us. If there's a special, blocked issue, let's also consider it. This is very important, Mr. Secretary. All right. Sir, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit01spe0073par0649	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 9. I'm gonna take a five-minute break before I move on to chapter one interviews.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0073par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 441. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The first word on the first chapter is Ali Halaman, Adana MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0074par0008	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of the law on the liberalisation of State Railways 441, which is now up. I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before that, I went to Adana, our constituency last week. Adana has a train station at the water station. For more than a hundred and fifty-seven years, there have been many in this water, at the railway station, who have landed, and who have been seated, as the story of this black train has been told. So they asked me, "What are you doing in the parliament?" And I said, "What are you doing?" They said: "Ya, for ten years we will develop these train lines, we will build these fast trains, so we will knit Turkey with iron nets." They said, "We voted, so we voted, but now you say this place will be privatized, it will be liberated." They said, "Can an Adanan come out and build such a fast train that the government can't do? " Now, lawmakers, T.C., with a hundred and fifty-six years of history and a future, linking the Ottomans and republics -- more and more Abdulhamits are carried out -- the creation of our nation's enormous culture and the imprint of every square of social life. The State Railways will become an anonymous company in five years, and in five years it will be put on sale. The reason it's being put on sale is because it's called "Hantal, tired, bureaucratic, hard-working, damaging institution." Wherever it comes from, it will be a profit. It will break down and privatize the institution for a hundred and fifty-six years. For the past ten years, there have been constant changes to the United States, the European Union, the foreign policy, the economy, the political structure that we think is not appropriate for our country, which we consider global power. Sell, rent, privatisation, power for ten years. Now, the rich, found the money, organized countries based on its capital, the countries are measuring this country, and its laws are both economic and social, according to these enriching capitalist countries. Now, they say: "If you do what we say, you will be rich as we are. We have everything. Aren't we neighbors? Why do you need to reproduce it? Ask us, we'll give it to you. Since they say so, these sales continue in Turkey. Now, the fertilizer factories were sold for this privatisation, for liberalisation, from TUGSASH to IGSS. Today, to provide all the fertilizer that agriculture needs, all of the Agriculture Ministry, private sector, and country travel, especially the Agriculture Loan Co-operatives. Again, you sold the SECA. The site of the SECA was the site of the land. All of the products produced by SECA (SECA) come from abroad, and are sold at high prices. Are there new SECANs? You sold TELEKOM. We're going to break the monopoly, we're going to remove the monopoly. You said that, but TELEKOM was the monopoly in Turkey, and it was the only one. Again, in Turkey, you privatized this privatisation fair to collect natural gas management. So, this community is happy with this, with these privatisations? You have purged PETKIM, the ports, the sugar factories, the ironworks, the TEKEL businesses, the village services. You sold the highways and car stations. Look, the sale of the highways has been pushed forward recently due to various objections. You've had 100-125 privatisations in ten years. We made 50 billion from it, we got it. You said. Is that enough to cover the deficit? Turkey owes $549 billion. The in-and-out debt was 160-170 billion dollars within ten years. Are these explanations closed? 95 percent of the people who walk the streets are in debt in their homes, in their fields, in their workplaces. Get rid of the political structure. (For example, how long will you get rid of the economy?) State Railways are a company that has served Turkey for many years and has been a brand of property for a hundred and fifty years. Why do you want to tear up and privatize these branded institutions when you care about branding in commercial life? When you privatize, these people you're giving them, T.C., they're in this country. The government's gonna build railroads? Because of the institutions you sell them to, the corporations, because they have capital, they first look at their individual desires, their own gains, and they don't care about the needs of society at all. Is the economy of Turkey back on track, even with all this value being sold? It's off the rails, it's always economic, social accidents. In the name of selling goods, selling property, constantly giving up property, individualization and privatisation, it is not right to discuss Turkish government's labor, sweat, tears, and the hard work of every human institution and organization based on an anti-employment capitalist understanding. This law is five chapters, so -- I said what we wanted to say in the commission -- but despite everything, I offer you all my respect and love, in the hope that it will bring good things to the Turkish nation. I say God bless you all.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0075par0021	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. The second speaker is Erol Dora, Mardin MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0076par0025	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Bill of the Law on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers remain within the national borders of the republic's declaration of nearly 4,000km of the railways run by various foreign companies during the Ottoman state period. The first railway to be built within Turkey's borders was the 130km-long Izmir-Aydun line, which was completed in 1866 with a concession to an English company on 23 September 1856. The dominant economic and political understanding in the early years of the Republic shows itself through efforts to ensure national integrity and promote the network of transportation. In this framework, especially the railway policy is stepping up, and it is thought that the bonding of the country's main residential and production-commerce centers will lead to a boost in the domestic market, which will have a positive impact on the country's economy. By this understanding, 41.5 per cent of our current railways were performed before the declaration of the republic, while 40.5 per cent were done in 1923 (1950). Between 1923 (1950) and 27 years, an average of 172km of railways were built, with only 1.981km in 58 years, with an average of 34km per year after 1950. As of 1950, the total length of the railway line, 9.024 kilometers, is 1,1005 kilometers at the end of 2008. In our country, the transport of passengers and cargo was mainly made through the railway and the sea until 1950. In 1950, railway transport rates increased from 42 per cent in passengers to 78 per cent in cargo to 1.7 per cent in passengers, 5.3 per cent in cargo, while road transport increased from 1950 to 2008 to 91.7 per cent in cargo and 98.3 per cent in passengers. This data shows that, despite other transportation alternatives that exist in our country, transportation has collapsed on the road. However, it is impossible to understand that an automotive and oil-dependent country, such as Turkey, would weigh in on the transportation of land roads. Dear lawmakers, the Bill of Law on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport was written on the basis of a main reason that after describing the Turkish Republic of Turkey's State Railways as monopoly, which is a hundred and fifty years old on our country's territory, the monopoly should now be restored to a competitive structure. According to the bill, the railways will remain the property of the state, but will operate, operate, trade by private companies, and the State Railways will run the railroad traffic. First of all, unfortunately, the bill envisions the liquidation of the railroads, setting the stage for the transfer of the railways into the hands of multinational corporations. It is true that the profit margin of railways is one of the lowest sectors. However, it is important to remember that economic and social life is the engine power. The reason for the bill is the creation of a free, competitive, economic and social sustainable railway sector in order to strengthen the role of the railway roads, which are decisive in the development and independence of our country, and in transport, as well as in accordance with the European Union's legislation. However, the draft aims to include the private sector's infrastructure and train operator. However, there is the fact that England took infrastructure and train traffic into the state monopoly years later. This bill aims to provide certificates to some companies based on EU criteria. One of the big problems is about railroad workers. Those who have yet to retire and those who deserve retirement are forced to retire and experienced iron passengers are asked to be expelled from the system. Along with the bill, the new configuration targets will be limited to five years, but this arrangement will not help the Railways, which cover 27.5 per cent of its income costs. The liberation of railways can be overcome by predicting the source problem, but the draft does not predict alternative sources. Subcontractorization is also intended to be entered into the railway sector along with this bill, as in any sector. On the contrary, subcontractors who work for minimum wage and have no guarantees are wanted to be employed. Beyond that, it is frightening to the workers of the railroad that there is no regulation in the bill, when it is necessary to eliminate discrimination between those who work at the institution and to establish a business peace that is damaged by the employment of those who do the same job in different positions. On the other hand, it is possible that public officials outside the TCDD and private sector anonymous companies will be able to build their own railway infrastructure, build their own railway infrastructure, or themselves or other private sector anonymous companies' railway infrastructure to expand the national railway grid. Again, the general reason for the bill is that in the 1950s, our country has a 42 per cent share of railway transport and a 68% share of freight transport, and by 2012, those ratios are at 1.5-4.5 per cent. In addition to increasing major investments in the railway sector in recent years, the organisation of the sector and restructuring of the State Railways will be able to change the unstable change in favor of the roads, which has been created in favour of the road. However, for ten years, nothing has been done for those who have reduced their railway share from 5 per cent to 1.5 per cent on the passenger, and from 7 per cent to 1.5 per cent on the load. Is it not the public's fault that the share of passenger transport and cargo transport is shrinking? What should have been questioned is how 80,000 workers were once employed on the State Railways, while the rate of income is at 50 per cent, and how it is now reduced to 27 per cent. Yeah, no one touches themselves, always the railroads and their employees. When the privatisations take place along with the bill, the railroad traffic safety and security will be eliminated, accidents will be inevitable. In essence, the draft of the law aims at commercialisation, eliminating public services. Dear lawmakers, it has been suggested that in all five years of development plans, opportunities to increase life and property security, meet transport demands, reduce the dependency of transportation costs, energy and consumption to the single energy type; the weight of shipping roads, railways and pipeline transport; and the transportation of transit through our country will be prepared to transfer to railway roads and ports, which are more advantageous to our country. Because the contradiction between land, air, sea, and railway transport, and the approach to the foreseeable liberalisation of privatisation, privatisation policies, and only land-road transport, and policies for fast train support, and other forms of transportation that need to be invested in is very visible. Everyone knows it's privatisation, even though it passes through the name of the Law. The bill, which would pave the way for the non-neoliberal understanding of subcontractorization, which would pave the way for cheap and unsecured labour force, would never bring our country to grow on its railroads. Therefore, I say again that a policy for labour should be followed not by capital, but by respect of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0077par0040	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Third speaker for the groups, Sakine Öz, Manisa MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0078par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group in the first part of the Bill on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport. I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, there were only three business days between the first date when this bill was distributed to members of the Transport Commission and the date when it was discussed in the Commission. The impact analysis, which includes the Minister of Transport's assessment of this bill, has not been delivered to parliament in time. We didn't see this report on the Commission. The ministry's detailed view of the bill was unfortunately not discussed the concrete burden the process would create in the budget. We've asked the Plan and Budget Commission to give a preliminary opinion on the bill, discuss the cost of the work. The strange excitement of the minister and members of the AKP has preceded everything. Minister just said: "We've transferred the subcommittee to the subcommittee." He's wrong, I'm afraid we haven't been able to transfer this bill to the subcommittee. If you expect a healthy, qualified law from a bill that provides a permanent solution to the problems of the sector and the workers, if you really respect the will of parliament, if you are open to participation, if you have enough sense of democracy to view parliament as a negotiating area, you will either present your legislation earlier or give lawmakers a more reasonable time to prepare for this bill. If you rush it, there's more doubt. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about railroads, not just any institution. We're talking about a tradition, history, culture, a strategic public institution. With just two or three days left, you'll have a reaction if you try to determine the fate of the Railways with text from the Prime Minister at the speed of gesture, with your flash-forward reports that don't reach the Commission. Unions are trying to take a stand at the Transport Commission, they want to interpret the political and economic dimensions of the issue together; you don't interfere, just talk about pension provisions, politicians do politics. You say, "You put words into the mouths of the rights." We told the commissioners to discuss the details of the bill with you. They were able to do nothing but repeat the Minister's fancy words. Congressmans, painful but true: AKP Commissioners had no detailed information on this bill. Even though we specifically submitted our subcommittee proposal to the Minister, in the full-frontal comfort of this bill, everything in its short, clear, clear bill destroyed the purpose of the Commission's meeting in the first place. The members of the Justice and Development Party's Party (AKP) Commission members, while the MPs, who had been held captive, fell asleep in the Commission for a bill they were caught unaware of, were dazed by cell phones. This is the story of this bill, which will open an entire railway area to the private sector in terms of infrastructure and train operations, which will give TCDD a monopoly on train traffic only, which will give the TCDD General Directorate anonymity and economic state-sponsored identity before coming to the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, when we say, "Let's review the structure of the State Railways, let's make a law focused on public service, it pushes the public's savings and narratives back with a memorizing approach, and if there's a state in the business, it'll definitely damage you." You're trapped in a twisted thought like that. The Minister-General Directorate, the agreement between the Ministry and international companies, the AKP and the EU and the World Bank is mined by this bill, and parliament is tasked with blowing up this mine. Dear lawmakers are memorists of this bill, which requires that public enterprises be finished, even if they make a profit, open public services to private sectors one by one. The bill opens its first door to privatisation under the name "Empire the Ironways." In addition, he said that he encouraged competition in the private sector and put the TCDD into anonymous company status. He lays the burden of the whole system on the shoulders of the government, and on the back of the citizen through the treasure. This bill is not original because it is a vision of the privatisation of the policy of delivering through the reports of private companies and the World Bank that have been consulting with the European Commission for years. The aim of developing the free, transparent, fair and sustainable competitive environment, which is the basis of the bill, is the initiative to determine the content of private sector principles in public service. It is not possible to accept this bill, the subcontractor, who is out of business, who wants to bring iron passengers to the button, who are consumed with the desire to sell the laborer's rights cheaply. You're trying to remove whatever gains there are in the name of laborers from public institutions, pay off early retirement, piss off trade unions, turn the Republic of Turkey into a subcontractor republic. We won't let that happen. The language of this bill is clearly problematic. It is written in a very complicated way that TCDD, public corporate personality and the private sector will be given what infrastructure management powers. However, it is useful for the law to give together the 2nd article, which defines infrastructure management, and the institutions and companies to run infrastructure. All definitions, such as,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If different statements of infrastructure operators in Articles 2 and 3 are not made clear, the Ministry will be able to leave some of the current railway lines as they please to the private sector, which will have the authority not to transfer them to TCDD. So the government would be able to limit the existing infrastructure available to the TCDD (TCDD) by means of this law and facilitate the transition to the private sector's operation. The bill puts too much authority on access to the Transport Ministry and the Council of Ministers, the railway areas of companies and institutions. In the law, entry into the sector must be explicitly defined, not handed over to the law. The ministry has decided which company and public corporate figure will operate in the sector, blocking access to the railway sector of companies that are unable to obtain the ministry's permission. The aspect of the issue should be carefully approached, and companies that do not stay close to the AKP will be excluded from the system. In the draft, public service obligations are abstract and undefined, left to the Ministry's discretion; the definition of a public service obligation without establishing principle and management is considered the sole authority of the Council of Ministers to continue operating in non-business lines. This sentence will also result in the removal of some trains by the Council of Ministers on the grounds that they are not economical. TCDD does not share the burden of transportation equally, it opens up an almost risk-free area in the private sector, putting heavy burdens on its own transport company. The public sector is clearly being pushed to move through a public company. The government, which talks about fair competition in privatisation of railway transport, is leaving the public company to the heavy competitive conditions of the market, leaving the public company from the start to share it in an unequal way. As public responsibilities in transport are not enough for the private sector, the High Speed Train Project again does not have a comprehensive structural arrangement. You often make promises in the press to build Ankara-Izmir speed railway lines. The Manisa line, the project on the Izmir-Afyon line, is still not a step further than the project. The bill calculates how to get laid off, not employees' rights. The bill is part of EU integration, which may turn into political staffing and a side tender. Privatisation poses the danger of subsidizing a company other than the state monopoly. Dear lawmakers, this bill leaves work at the mercy of subcontractors, breaks down security, compresses a large railway area into only 12 articles, inviting future problems in practice. With these thoughts against the bill, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0079par0065	Mr. Oz, thank you. Now, on behalf of the person, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, the MP of Kopeeli. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0080par0069	Mr. President, before I start speaking, I'd like to ask you, while the head of state railways is here: Do you intend to remove the declaration of the Republic of Turkey in front of the name of the State Railways? That's a clear question. It's in the law. Okay. Because, now that a trend has begun, I mentioned here yesterday that the word "Republic of Turkey" has been disturbed by the word...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0081par0073	He's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it,
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0080par0074	...she's taken down the sign, she's written it down. The Republic of Turkey is troubled by the declaration of the People's Democratic Party (PKK).
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0082par0075	And Balıkesir...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0080par0076	From here I ask Governor Sahabattin Harput. Are you the governor of what? Are you the governor of Apophis? Aren't you ashamed to take it away from here? There is a title given to you by the laws of the Republic of Turkey: Governor of the Republic of Turkey. If you are tired of this title, leave and leave; you don't have to be governor here! Look, there's so much disease... that we're questioning in the UYAP. In our interview with the IYAP, it had previously been written in the nationality of the Republic of Turkey; not much, but a month ago. Right now, in a new way, it's just Turkey. Did you also receive this instruction from Apophis as a government? We will remove the declaration of the Republic of Turkey from all sides. Have you begun to implement it one-on-one? So my question was to the State Railways. Mr. Secretary, are you going to take this wind? Will you be affected by this wind? Are you ready to become a Minister who is ashamed of the state, Turkey? You have delivered this country to 2,149 PKK members, all 2,149, from top to bottom, from top to top. You have delivered the entire Republic of Turkey. But I'll tell you something from here: he doesn't know that he's going to burn with fire, but he'll know when he's burning. You guys are playing with fire, you're really playing with fire. They're talking about how they're going to divide Turkey into four corners of the country, because it's a man who's not even a man.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0083par0081	Don't you talk like that.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0084par0082	They don't know, they don't know.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0080par0083	Again, non-genius. They called him Akul. You've released 63 men, even suspected men, and you're telling the market how to divide Turkey. But I'll tell you one thing: don't worry about the Turkish nation, sometimes storms are good, your boat may get a little damaged, but it'll clean up the mess on the deck and send it away. Turkey will get rid of the filth on this, let our nation not give up hope, it's not that cheap, it's not that easy. It's not as cheap as the Justice and Development Party put it on the wind of its sail, we won't allow it. Do you hear what these 63 wise men are saying, Minister? Let the nation be destroyed. They go and tell the people. How could you allow such a thing as Minister of the Republic of Turkey? The man goes, and Kayseri says, "Let the national government be destroyed." After that, he eats gamma, and leaves. Will this government, this nation allow it? Is the state just the AKP government? Never and to the floor. Let's go to the State Railways. I'm the son of a man who works for the State Railroad. I'm an immigrant. I am the child of a family that waits three days, and three days, for the family that came to take him, lying there on the floor, on the floor. His uncle's coming, he's waiting there for three days. Government Railway employees are there providing their bread and water to help the naçar immigrants. And then they hire my dad so that we can take care of this family that's probably out of work. For two years, we ate the bread of the State Railroad, drank the water, God bless. I'm the one who adopts this app on the State Railways, and it's done right. Before, the State Railways are the product of the communist system. I admit, I've been wrong about this in the past -- this is self-criticism -- but the State Railways, in fact, are, in the modern world, a sign of development. Development in a competitive sector would be much more appropriate. I personally declare that I support this bill in this regard. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0085par0090	Thank you...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0086par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0085par0092	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0086par0093	The speaker has made incriminating statements against us and our party.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0087par0094	I barely said it!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0086par0095	Because of the bullying, if you give me authority, Ramadan Can...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0088par0096	Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0087par0098	Is it because we spoke to the PKK? Are you offended by what we said to the PKK?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0088par0099	In two minutes, please, before you dare to pick on me again...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The preacher goes up here, and before that, he's out there, constantly insulting, cursing, taking possession of the crowd, exploiting the republic... once again, I think it's good for us to find out that the Republic is not the property of anyone's father, it's not in anyone's monopoly. The Republic is the Republic.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0090par0104	So you're wiping off your father's property? Are you wiping your father's shit, or did your father give it to you?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0105	For the first time during the AK PARTY, Cumhur respected him with respect. We said the Republic is the Republic. Of course it's the Republic. Despite the Republic, there were those who opposed the republic.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0091par0106	People want it, T.C. Delete his name? Do the people want it or Ramadan, the people want it?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0107	We specifically say there's no room for abuse, the hammock. Those who oppose the Republic...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0092par0108	Why are you erasing it?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0109	They went ahead of the regular public, but the public's appreciation for you is 13 percent, and the AK is 50 percent to PARTI.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0093par0110	Why are you erasing T.C., Ramadan, explain that? Why are you erasing T.C., talk about it?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0111	I especially want to say that I, the people who see the republic as their father's, the ones who fall into the love of nationalism...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0094par0112	Are you the owner of the eraser?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0113	...abused nationalism and the community all the time.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0095par0114	No way!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0094par0115	We're nationalists, and we're proud of it. We're Turkish nationalists.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0116	I don't think the people who mortgaged this country to the IMF have anything to do with the republic, nationalism.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0094par0117	We've given our lives to Turkish nationalism, our lives, our fortunes like yours.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0118	Cumhur doesn't live on the shoreline of Istanbul alone, he lives on the shoreline of Hakkari, he lives on Tekirdağ, he lives in Ardahan.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0094par0119	Now get out there, ask them once, if they're bored, come on! Go on, if you dare!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0089par0120	But you can't go there, you can't go there, and you don't have a face to go there. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0094par0123	You go to Diyarbakır, but you can't go anywhere else with PKK. Go to Tekirdağ, if you dare, and see how they break your eyes.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0096par0124	We made it for you because you're erasing T.C. Tell me why you're erasing the TC.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0094par0125	He uses the same expression as the PKK.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0097par0131	On behalf of his subjects, the second speaker is Oya Eronat, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0098par0134	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the first chapter of the Bill on the liberalisation of Turkey's Railway Transport, 441 rows. I salute your high council. In a poem by Poet Orhan Veli, it says: "Let me hear the sound of a train, my eyes are two fountains. " The poet is impressed by the sound of the train because he reminds me of his longing. In our past, a train meant ending longing, a trade, a culture. In the past, when the trains passed through them, they were the means to develop the minds of the children and the newspapers that were thrown out of the trains to the village's children, perhaps nostalgic, but they had such ulterior duties. When I first went from Diyarbakır to İstanbul as a child, my train journey lasted two nights and one day. The difference between buses was maybe seven or eight hours, but the reason they chose the train was because it was more comfortable and safe. The train accidents we heard about were just the accident of the henan. Later, we heard that the trip from Diyarbakır to İstanbul took three days. Those who were on the train were farm workers who traveled throughout the family and had loads. Mr. Minister explained why the train speeds were so low in the commission:... fully neglected... in 1960, the train speeds that reached 100 miles [60 km] at some points were driven to reduce their speed as a remedy because trains and rails were moving together. For example, speeds have dropped to 90, 80, 70, 60, to the last 40 kilometers. After 1950, the neglected railways were treated like children thrown into the street. We, the AK PARTY government, have given birth to this orphan and then adopted him. And now we're going to marry our children, but we're not going to give them children out, we're going to take them inside the house, they're going to eat from the same plate with us, but they're going to share their profits with us. This can also be perceived as the growth of a large and hardworking family. With emancipation, our railroads will be used by the private sector, they will win and our railroads will win. It's gonna be like airports. Just as the private sector uses airports, the private sector will use our railways. Today, 136 planes land in Diyarbakır per week, half of which are private sector planes, our state is winning and private sectors are winning, and our people are able to travel cheap and comfortable in the face of this competition. The journeys that used to be dreams have become ordinary today. Today, our goals for our railways, which our Prime Minister cares deeply about, are 10 to the 100th year of our republic. It is a thousand kilometers of fast train and 4,000 kilometers of conventional railway, but it is a perfect repair of the existing railways. I wish the law to be a blessing, my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0099par0144	Thank you, Mr. Eronat. My dear friends, the conversation is complete. Now, we're going to do a QA. In order, I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system. Mr. Can...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0100par0149	Mr. President, when will the Ankara-Kırikkale-Yozgat-Sivas Speed Train Project be launched? When will a fellowman who rides from Kırıkkale, or Yozgat, or Sivas, be able to visit Ankara, or İstanbul, on a fast train? Ankara-Kırikkale - 100km - When will the Highway Project be tendered, and when will it be launched? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0101par0152	Thank you, Mr. Can. Mr. Whiteheart...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0102par0154	Mr. President, it is imperative that the following statement be made regarding the tender of the FİSKOBIRTY land, which has been expressed by CHP's Democratic Party (HDP) MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu in the Parliament's General Assembly. Because of the commercial relationship between the White Brothers Company and FİSKOBIRCY, the Akyrek Brothers Company has been given a down payment on the FİSKOBIRD products it will buy within a year, and in return, it has provided a guarantee of real estate mortgages to the Companies Association. As the sale of real estate is not due to a commercial relationship between the White Brother Company and FİSKOBIRC, any of the Akyerek Group companies have not participated in the tender for the sale of this property... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's none of the business of the White Company Group, where people are bidding and who's holding the tender. Besides, these companies...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0103par0158	I mean, Mr. President, that's the answer to the question. It's a separate promise, so let our friend make his statement. Look, he's wasted on her, too. It wasn't enough for him either, look.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0104par0159	He's already made his statement, he's in control. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0105par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Ankara-Sivas very fast train, Sivas-Erzincan is in the tender stage of the fast train. When will Erzurum-Erzincan's very fast train be tendered and held? My second question: Erzurum Yakutiye Municipality, Kazim Karabekir and Terminal neighbourhoods have been built as an admissible wall, applied to our mayorate of Yakutiye, social facilities on one side, housing on the other side. When will this overpass take place? Erzurum - 20 miles off the road to Tetman, 37 kilometers, when will it be asphalted? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0106par0166	Thank you. Your Honor...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0107par0168	Mr. Minister, I want to thank you for the double road work done all over the province of Silverhane, first and foremost for the work of the Zigana Tunnel, Silverhouse Environment Road, Pöske Tunnel, Tersun Mountain Tunnel and Salyaz Airport. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0106par0170	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Albany...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0108par0172	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your service to Elazıg and the region. By the way, how far are we from what we know as the new Charcohan Bridge, a very serious project, to the expected bridge with a 660-metre-long, tilt-hanging system on the agenda? Where is the project preparation or work on it? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0109par0175	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0110par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked in writing, but since I haven't received an answer in time, I'd like to repeat it here. The long-standing political agenda of the Samsun-Ankara railway is said to be in the direction of Samsun, Havza, Merzifon, Çorum, Çişkale, Ankara. Is there any study of this way? Second, in addition to the Samsun-Ankara railway line, is the 19-May-Bafra-Alacham line and the current Samsun-Wednesday line considered to include a new line in the Terme district? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0111par0182	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0112par0184	Mr. President, thank you. Dear Minister, as you know, nearly 70 per cent of the River-Karbuk railway line passes through the Caspian border. For one thing, work continues for modernisation and rehabilitation of the current line. When will the work between the River-Cross center be completed? Do you plan to launch rail flights between Ankara and Çankır as of the end of the work? When can it happen, if you think about it? In addition, when will the delivery of the tornado counter to the Scissors Factory, which was ordered to increase production capacity at the Çanrı Scissors Factory, which had not been delivered for a long time due to legal conflict? Again, there was an improvement in the transfer of funds to the same factory for repairs and maintenance, at what stage? When is this source transfer going to take place? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0113par0189	Thank you. Dear Silver...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0114par0191	I'm talking about the Minister's answers to our earlier questions. As far as I'm concerned, private sector, you know, investments and so on, it's more of a bill for government investments -- if it happens -- run by private sectors. I mean, we're... we're... if, if this is going to happen, if these things can happen, if modern structures can be done... it seems like the law has been broadly enforced, but that's what we understand: investments will be made, private sectors will be run. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0115par0194	Thank you, Mr. Silver. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0116par0196	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, it is not wise not to speak of Burdur (Burdur) while the Turkish Republic of Turkey's State Railways is being discussed. Our Burdur Gar. It's out of order right now. Burdur-Ankara-Afyon, Burdur-Antalia has been spoken for years. I understand you've done some good work. I thank the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. You're in charge of the practice, but the people of Burdur are still anxious to meet this train. When will our train arrive at our station? I'm waiting for an answer on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0117par0199	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0118par0201	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to point out something. A member of your party -- if it is true -- claims that citizens of the Republic of Turkey, for whatever reason, cannot go to a part of Turkey's geography. Well, doesn't that worry you or embarrass you at all? Isn't it your government's duty to allow all citizens to travel freely in Turkey? Don't you ever consider it? Even the Prime Minister probably doesn't understand his duty, which he can honestly say sometimes with something like this. It's a very painful situation. It's a disgrace. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0119par0204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ramadan Can, about projects, railroads, road projects...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0120par0208	Madam Secretary, excuse me, sir, I apologize. In the talks of the law, the ruling of the Civil Code is a question-and-answer duty. So the opposition has to do the inspection, so we have to do the legislation together. Now, ruling group MPs are asking questions so they can intercept control; this is a new trend.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0121par0210	You don't need this, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0120par0211	What I'm asking is that you shouldn't be contributing to this by answering these questions. I mean, the ruling lawmakers always get the answer to their questions. Please don't let your friends use you for this. Sir, thank you. Of course, every question asked... in the General Assembly, I don't think it's my duty to answer the question of every member of parliament, not the opposition or the ruling MP. Sir, this is the spirit of the Civil Code, which is made by the opposition.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0122par0214	You don't have to answer the ruling party MPs.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0120par0215	I mean, if that happens...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0123par0216	Mr. Chancer, a moment of your time, sir. The audit duty is the duty of all lawmakers, your appreciation, but our friends can understand, separate issues.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0120par0218	Mr. President, I don't think that's...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0123par0219	Just a moment, sir. You don't have an audit duty to any MP. We can't call it that, you'll appreciate it. So he'll answer accordingly. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0124par0223	Mr. President, why did you narrow it down to 15 minutes when the answer was 20 minutes?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0125par0224	Mr. President, the question of power is three!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0126par0225	I mean, if we run this mission, power will be harmful. I mean, if there's going to be a debate on law and order here, then power must abide by it. That's not true.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0127par0226	I get it. Our friends heard what you said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Sir, thank you...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0128par0229	Mr. President, it's not worth three questions.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0129par0230	But you have to object to that. Miss Ayþe, you must object.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0128par0231	Three questions...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0129par0232	If your friends go in like this to keep the opposition from asking questions, then the opposition parties will try another way.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0128par0233	Mr. Chancer, if we had thought so, we'd have learned from the date of the opening of the House...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0129par0234	Why are you doing what you haven't done today?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0128par0235	In all questions and answers, we would apply it.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0129par0236	I get it. Why are you doing what you haven't done today?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0130par0237	But they found out! But the Minister doesn't need it, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0131par0238	The MPs can't reach the minister, can they?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0129par0239	There's no good faith here!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0132par0240	Yes, sir, please... Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0133par0242	We know very well whether we have good intentions or not.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0134par0243	No, there's no good faith here, Miss Ayþe. I mean, don't open this road. If you open this road, then the opposition will try another way.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0132par0244	Guys, please... Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0135par0246	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0136par0247	No way.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0135par0248	Do what the Civil Code commands you to do.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0136par0249	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So there are already questions here, whether it's from the opposition or the power, you can appreciate that we can't answer them fully because there are very detailed questions. That's not the point. They're not asking for information. In fact, the law is going well here, and we've started well. Thank you, everyone's being positive. I really want this weather to continue. I appreciate your understanding. Sivas, or rather, the Brokenkale-Sivas line...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0137par0254	Answer in writing, Mr. Secretary, it's written! Let's save time. It's 60 percent complete, we aim to complete until 2017, if all goes well. Sir, in the Silver House, the roads continue as planned, so we can give you the details in writing. Mr. Shuay Albay, the Coalhan Bridge contract will be held at this time. Mr. Lightning, there's no short-term railway planning on Samsun. It'll be in their 2023 plans, and we'll give you the details in writing. Mr. Hawk, the Zonguldak-Irem is being auctioned off, the productions continue. We have two years, we'll do it in two years. We'll also provide the supply supply for the Scissor Factory. Mr. Silver, as a matter of fact, we have two things: one of them will make state, right, and everyone will use it for the price, present and new to-do. But the second choice, the one who wants to do it, it opens up, it does. He'll run it for forty-nine years, and then he'll leave it to the government with all its infrastructure, with its superstructure, and leave it to the treasure. Mr. Ramazan Kerim Özkan, about the Burdur-Antalia... This, again, is the end of the work on the railway project from the Afyonkarahisar route to Antalya, between Burdur and Isparta. On the 2023 program, this is a planned line. Mr. Ali Longırmak is open to every citizen of Turkey's 780,000 square kilometers of land, meaning every square inch of land. I mean, I'm going, I'm going everywhere, and I think everybody should go. If we can't go, if we can't go to some places, you go to our citizens, you sit there...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0138par0263	Don't answer to me, but to Ramadan Can. Give that answer to Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0139par0264	That's not what the Prime Minister says. Don't you know the Prime Minister's statements? Go ahead, there's a stove, and we can't say we wave our flag here.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0138par0266	Don't answer me, give it to the congressman! We have to go. We go first, the citizen takes care of us, they go first. Let Ramadan Can give up that claim, and let the Prime Minister give up that claim, and let all places say it's safe. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0140par0270	Thank you, Minister. The negotiations are complete. There are three motions on article 1, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law Charter on the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport to the following as follows: Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Sinan Oğan Lütfu Türkkan Mehmet Şandir D) The construction of railway infrastructure and the use of this infrastructure of public corporate persons registered in trade records, e) It is to ensure that public corporate persons registered in trade records can run railway infrastructure and run railway railway railways. (2) This law includes railway infrastructure and railway railway railway management of public corporate people operating on the national railway infrastructure network. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 441 Rows of Bill 1. We propose and propose that the clause a bell be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Nazmi Gür İstiye Birtane Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law on the liberalisation of Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the draft of Article 1 of the First Amendment. Born Dawn Haluk Eyidoğan Turgay Develi Haluk Ahmet Silver Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Dawn, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0141par0300	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 1st Amendment of Bill 441. In the 19th century, prominent lawmakers were the head of the railway, which played a decisive role in the formation of the capitalist world economy. Even countries whose level of economic development has yet to be built hadn't been out of the way. For developed countries, railway investments -- a very profitable activity -- became a means of opening new population areas. Toward the end of the 19th century, the construction of railways in the Ottoman Empire also became the most effective way for the imperial states to provide new economic and political advantages, and it became the scene of brutal competition. From this point of view, the Berlin-Bedardian railway, the only line that the Ottoman Empire can make and run by giving the Germans a concession, but perhaps one step away from the goal, is one of the most interesting and sad pages in the history of the Ottoman railways, where construction has been halted in despair. Established after the fall of the Ottoman Republic, the State Railways of Turkey have been reshaped according to its social needs, creating major links between east-west and north-south, using more national capital in the construction of these lines, putting the railways on the basis of national policies until World War II and until 1950. An independent policy was followed during the Ataturk and Inönu period. In the Republic era, between 1923 and 1950, the railway was built by 3,764 kilometers, as the Minister said. From 1951 to 2003, only 945km of railways were built. From 2004 to 2011, the railway was built. However, after World War II, Turkey abandoned independent policies since 1950, took its place on the US side, under the influence of this country, which has oil and car cartels connected to it, giving up railway policy during the Menderes era. In 1950, the DP government adopted American policies in Turkey. In the 1950s, in America, companies made incredible profits by selling dollars and dollars of oil. The automobile and the industries associated with it became the largest component of the American economy. Billions of US taxpayers were being poured into the construction of a modern highway infrastructure with the Eisenhower National Defence Law, under the excuse that highways were needed to escape cities during a nuclear war with the Soviets -- fast-moving highways. The railway infrastructure has been neglected and left to rot in favour of motor transport transport with fewer energy activities. The time was when Wilson, the president of a large Detroit Automotive Holdings, could speak for America, which was good for General Motors without blinking an eye. Less than a few years later, Turkey became Chevrolet paradise. Dear lawmakers, with the start of high-speed train practices in the oil crisis and railways following the 1970s, they have to invest in the West to be an important value again and to be the instrument of global exploitation in the 21st century, while Turkey, as in the 19th century, is largely devoid of the necessary equipment to be the most important element of development, while Turkey is late in transitioning to fast train practices, is forced to invest in the corridors of global railway transportation. But, in what way? Of course, the government should do it. The White Book, titled the European Transport Policy Decision for 2010, published by the European Commission in 2001, presents some proposals that will bring balance between different modes of transportation. Today, in the liberalisation and privatisation fair, it's a printout of dependent policies except for the early years of the republic as it used to be. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0309	Thank you, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0143par0310	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0311	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0143par0312	Call the number of decisions you need to make, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0313	Those who refuse... do not accept the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0143par0314	Is there enough to decide, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0315	Next...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0143par0316	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0317	...to read the proposal: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 441 rows of the First Amendment. We propose and propose that the clause a bell be removed from the draft text. Asked?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0144par0321	Yes, sir. But I mean, no, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0322	I'm sorry, I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0144par0323	I've repeated the number of decisions enough three times, everyone's heard them, sir. Please reconsider your vote.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0324	After the vote, the children say.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0144par0325	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0326	Yes, sir, yes. I didn't hear it, and my friends didn't tell me.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0144par0327	You be careful too, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit02spe0142par0328	I'm going to re-vote the motion, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. [[From the AK PARTY ranks, Mr. President, the vote has been voted.]] Excuse me. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... [[There's the AK PARTY lines, there's the voices.]] Yeah, my friends don't get along, but I'm taking a five-minute break, so I'm gonna call the number again, and I'm not.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0142par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Nüğde MP Doğan Şaş and his friends' motion on the 1st article of the Law Bill 441 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 441 Rows of Bill 1. We propose and propose that the clause a bell be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0145par0017	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the motion we made on Bill 441. I salute your committee. Again, as in all laws, we are faced with an anti-employment law that creates capital, land environments, creating private sectors, which is in accordance with the neoliberal policies of the EC PARTY, which I would like to point out at the beginning. We're not gonna come in here with our motions to convince you because no matter how much we say the right thing, you won't accept it. So, while Mr. Secretary is here, let's talk about some of our local problems, because thanks to the Minister, he's not responding to the question proposals we've given him for six months. Mr. Secretary, as an official of the ruling party, you are obliged to serve this community, this nation. We are also obliged to oversee whether you are doing this well. We're giving you those questions, and we're also giving them to you to carry out our mission to oversee the public's expectations. Therefore, we have made many motions for you to answer our questions, especially about Bingol. We do not get answers. Look, one of the motions we've made is about the Elazig-Bingöl-Mush environment. Here, especially at a distance between Kurudere and Kervansaray, there are no sufficient measures, lighting, signalization, not enough measures for the overpass, so accidents happen almost every week, and every week our citizens lose their lives or become disabled. Last night, again, on this road to death, four of our citizens who went to an event to celebrate Happy Birth Week lost their lives in an accident. So you need to take precautions on this short distance as soon as possible. Although we've said it over and over, I'd like to point out that there's no serious work involved. There is another thing: For those who know Bingol, there is the Chapaçir Bridge, which combines the two sides of the city with the flat tree and the central region. We've said it over and over again from this council bench. They said because it cost 25 million, we can't do it first, because it's 25 million. So when it comes to other places, third bridges, third airports, crazy projects fly in the air, but when it comes to Bingol, it's 25 million more, and you keep a bridge from a city, and there are fatal accidents going on. Look, an undersecretary you sent to Bingol the other day -- I won't give you his name because he doesn't have the right to answer here -- makes fun of the people of Bingol. He said: "Summer three months, three months cold, and six months white. Perhaps there is some poetry in it. If we build a bridge here, the current accident rate will double. Because of the altitude altitude in the region, which is six months of winter, there is constant frosting, and the Bingöllans are asking us for a viaduct. In particular, the Viaduke is a structure built between two mountains that do not run under water. Now, we're dealing with an undersecretary who doesn't even know what a viaduct is or what a bridge is. We've taken out all the meaning of the viaduct. It is defined as a bridge between the two points of a river and between the two points of a high point in the direction of the bridge. Either the Undersecretary doesn't take these demands seriously, or he's making fun of the people of Bingol. More dramaticly, there's a Minister from Bingol with him, and he's cool with it. So, here, a viaduct or a bridge, whatever it is, the public has made a demand for it, and you're obliged to solve it. Instead of responding to this, instead of building a solution, you're going to go in there and, unfortunately, ignore the people of Bingol. In January 2012, the AK PARTI Bingol MP said to the local press, "Bingöl Çapaçikır Bridge" and then "Ethukukur Bridge" was taken into the project by the General Directorate of the Highways. A year and a half later, there is still no concrete development. Mr. Secretary, you keep coming in here and telling me all the time, flippin' the numbers. Look, I'll show you a picture that's on social media. On the right is Mars, the middle is the moon, and on the left is the roads of Bingley. All three of them have something in common, like no human touch. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, we don't say anything about your projects about sending people to Mars or to Moon, but please consider these statements about Bingol. Consider our questions. And we expect you to respond as soon as possible to the demand of the people of Bingol regarding the viaduct. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0146par0031	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law Charter on the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport to the following as follows: Ali Halaman (Adana) and her friends D) The construction of railway infrastructure and the use of this infrastructure of public corporate persons registered in trade records, e) It is to ensure that public corporate persons registered in trade records can run railway infrastructure and run railway railway railways. (2) This law includes railway infrastructure and railway railway railway management of public corporate people operating on the national railway infrastructure network. Mr. Commission? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0147par0044	Mr. Sinan Okan...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0146par0045	Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0148par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, rather than expressing general things about the railways here, I'm going to address the wishes of our people who are waiting for the railroad at Iğdır. The problems that cause both human and animal telephates -- the life-giving car accidents every day in Iğdur. Dear Minister, you know there's only one province in Turkey that borders three countries, and that's Iğdır. A second province does not have that in Turkey. But, again, there is only one province in Turkey that is actually the top of the cities that have the most trouble with transportation, both international and domestic transportation. We were very happy when you announced the Baku-Tiflis-Kars railway project. Later, when we heard that he was going to pass through Iğdır, our joy was increased onefold. Sadly, however, we have yet to see any work on the railway through Iğdır, reflected in the Iğdır people. In response to my earlier question, you said that negotiations with Azerbaijan are continuing, and that both countries should start together. I know that since I have been closely monitoring the Azerbaijan side, the Azerbaijan side also needs this railroad. Because in Nahcivan, it will at least cause an embargo to disappear in that sense; it will easily come to markets, the apricot produced by Iğdır. The fruit produced by Iğdır will go to Ankara, Istanbul, and perhaps the Turkish republics through this railway. Thank you very much. We all opened the airport together last year at Iğdır, and I thank you on behalf of the Iğdır people. But our airport is a summer airport. We expect it to be summer so we can use the airport in the summer. We also think that the problem with the summer winter app will be resolved this summer, because when there's some dust in the air, when there's some fog, when there's some clouds, the planes can't land in Iğdır. Of course, one of the most important problems today in Iğdır is that although relative Iğdır is a small province, he was named the 6th province of Turkey, where most accidents took place in Turkey. We want Iğdır not to be the 6th province in 81 districts where the most traffic accidents occurred; and we want him to take his place in the highest rankings, if he is able to take the best transport to the west, where the best transportation is made. Unfortunately, in the middle of the village of Angelli, where I have opened my eyes to the world, an international road crossing, where people die every day, Mr. Secretary, at least one person dies on that road almost every day. So, at least today, the people of Iğdır, the people of the Angelite, are waiting for you to instruct them to make a sub-gate under the road in Iğdır, without causing more human casualties, loss of goods, loss of life. We don't expect much from you, Minister, we expect a subgate. I mean, it's really human to hear from the outside. What the hell are they waiting for? We're really not expecting anything. We just don't want our people to die under trucks, under international highways, under trucks. The Iğdır people only want to make a subgate. Making a subgate today, Mr. Secretary, it shouldn't be difficult, it shouldn't be expensive. It's something that can be done easily, but it's not done for some reason, but for some reason every day, because there's no subgate, there's no overpass, our people are dying because they're crossing the international road through the middle of the village. Minister -- these wishes of the people of Iğdir -- called me today because many of our citizens know that you are here because of these negotiations, and they said: "If Allah wills, it will be done immediately, otherwise we, the entire village, will go on that road and shut down that road to traffic so that no more of our people will be killed." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0149par0056	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the "or companies" in the "h" column be removed from the bill, and the "e" be changed in the following manner, and the "e" bill, which is included at the end of the "c" and "d" dams of the 2nd article of the Law Bill on the Freedom of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport. Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak e) Community service obligation: TCDD Transport A. S's duty to transport the railroad passengers and cargo. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the E and f bends from the item text of Article 1 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Turkish Railway Transport. Haluk Ahmet Silver Haluk Eyidoğan Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 441 Rows of the Bill of the Numbered Legislature We offer and supply from the draft text of the clause "c," "d," and "e." İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0150par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. I've renegotiated our motion. I salute your committee. We haven't finished the matter yet because time isn't enough. So because of the snow, we don't accept the reason for not being made a viaduct for Bingley. The Minister knows it best from his hometown. If you tell us the number of viaducts in Erzincan, Mr. Minister... if Erzincan doesn't have a viaduct in Erzurum, then we can understand why a town doesn't have a viaduct because of the snow, but the snow that falls on Erzincan is the same as the snow that falls on Erzurum. We'd like you to do more to Erzincana and Erzurum, but we'd like to know what your opinion is when you're at least having these talks about a viaduct in a city. On the other hand, of course, we've stated that most of these laws were not for labour, that the worker was constantly robbed of rights. Mr. Secretary of Labor was here as well, I don't know if he's here, if he's here again, please let him take care of it. It's the drama of 10,000 workers who have been fired on these highways. There are high judgment decisions, Supreme Court decisions. The High Judicial Decision states that these workers should be considered highway workers on staff, but the Ministry's practice is to leave the field they're working on completely keyed to subcontractors. Naturally, subcontractors seek to create a flexible, cheap, unsecured labor force. There are 10,000 workers now. So it's wrong to take the issue of the introduction of these workers here as such a number. We're talking 10,000 families, 10,000 family dramas. In Bingol, my constituency, 80 families have been calling us nonstop, unaware of what they're going to do, asking us to present here a demand for a solution to livelihood, family problems. In the same way, look, not only in Bingley; in Mardin, in Batman, in Tripoli, in Diyarbakır, in Kayseri, in Samsun, in Sivas, in Burma, in Erzurum, in Konya, in Shanlıurfa, İstanbul, Elazığ, and in many other provinces, the workers of these highways are waiting for an explanation of what will happen. On the other hand, while you're privatizing this place, when you're giving subcontractors, you're going to leave the government's warehouses, the machinery, the equipment, the technical equipment to rot, so is that an app? The biggest problem here is that if Turkey is a state of law, you apply the highest level of judicial decision as a government. Nobody's asking you to give them any rights, to give them a right from your own pocket in that sense. The court's already decided that these workers were justified. He's already told me that these workers are supposed to be staffed on the highways. All you have to do is fulfill the need to be a country of law. I don't know how your Ministry is going to develop a formula or have the Minister of Labor ever thought about it? How do you intend to get out of the condition of these 10,000 Highway workers? Either you're going to break the court order, or you're going to throw these workers out in the open as a big social problem, or you're going to come here with a logical formula and you're going to offer a solution, and we're going to relax, and the families are going to relax. That's what we expect. I respectfully salute the General Assembly, which says that the victimage must be corrected at once.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0151par0091	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Minister has a one-minute statement to make. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. The valuable speaker, of course, mentioned some issues about Bingol. That's why he needed to make that statement. Our road work continues at Bingöl, as it is known, north and east-west, north-south and east-west, and our divided road work continues in the last ten years. A comparison is: Within ten years of 2002, there was an investment in the region, just about 50 million investments between 2003-2012, and we increased the amount of divided roads in 5 kilometers to 130 km. The Anchor Bridge is a subject we know about, so we sent our friends, and we're going to work out a solution for it, but here's the thing: it's the only link in the city. The other, before we finish the bridge on the Mush-Bingal route, is that we're going to tear both sides of the city apart. That's why it's so long. I want this to be known. We're almost out of airports. Hopefully this summer we'll open the airport to Bingol. Subcontractors are not just a problem of highways, but a common problem. It's been known to have around 650,000 employees in the public. Our government has appointed our Ministry of Labor on this matter. We're looking for a formula. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the E and f bends from the item text of Article 1 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mr. Silver, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0152par0113	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed MPs, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, the PKK has thrown in the towel. You said, we believe it's the AKP government who threw in the towel. The apology of Israel, the withdrawal of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) like that, should suddenly recognize the state of Palestine. The coincidence is not normal, my friends. We know that the United States wants to design this area before it withdraws from the Middle East, and you are a factor and actor of this design.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0153par0116	It's the United States that started the war.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0152par0117	You don't know what you're talking about. On the one hand, you say our nationalism. On the other hand, you say I've put all sorts of nationalism under the table. You're saying there's not a single congressman who can come in here and tell us what the opening is. I'm picking on you, take it as a tease. Somebody come and tell me.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0154par0119	Don't you get it?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0152par0120	You come here, you tell me, you come here, you tell me.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0155par0121	Listen to the Vice President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0156par0122	Please... please, dear friends...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0152par0123	None of you know what the opening is.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0156par0124	Mr. Silver, please address the House.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0157par0125	You don't understand, why don't you ask the Vice President?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0156par0126	Guys, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0158par0127	Come and tell me what the opening is and what your dear Prime Minister will do to you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0156par0129	Guys, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0158par0130	Tell me, one of you... All sides of what is called an opening are closed, my friends. There's no opening like this, you turn it on, and I'm telling you, the United States will design it before it's pulled out of the Middle East. The internal urban laws and the internal regulations are related to oil accounts in this region later. In northern Iraq, the issues in the southeast are also related. We'll all see. When something big happens in the Middle East, we'll come here and talk about it. We'll share it soon.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0159par0132	Terror will end, Turkey will be rich.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0160par0133	Trust Turkey, trust your country.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0158par0134	Soon you will see the events here, and you will be part of this world's policy.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0161par0136	Please, friends, please...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0158par0137	Now, let's get down to brass tacks.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0162par0138	Why does it bother you that the terror is over?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0158par0139	I don't mind telling you what you're doing; you're the one who's uncomfortable.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0163par0140	Call Ismail to tell you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0164par0141	Friends, please. Please... friends, let's hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0165par0143	I said I'm going to the railroads. If anyone's out here, speak up. Consider it a taunt. We're discussing a bill that envisions the privatisation of railway services. It has gained great importance and speed with the founding of the republic in our country, but unfortunately the railways, which have been hampered by the 1950s, have today been made a very little preferable alternative to passenger transport. I specifically choose the word "replaced" because the use of railways as an alternative to transportation, which is much safer and more efficient than land roads, has been deliberately reduced. In the early days of our Republic, there is only 2 per cent of railway use in the 50 per cent of passenger transport, so your government owes a 48 per cent debt to the use of the railway. Public transportation in our country has been degraded for years, and investments have been declared unnecessary. Of course, the reason is to increase dependence on oil and outside. The bill, brought here today by the AKP's government, aims to completely destroy the public and socialist structure of iron roads that are no longer denied that there is an efficient alternative to transport with increasing energy costs and advanced technology in the world. The fact is that since the AKP came to power in 2002, it has not been able to nail the state without selling its property. What is done is to remove the existing nails and then replace them with new ones. Dear friends, it's actually putting a nail in a place is also creating resources for new investments. If the road is made with earthquake taxes, if the privatisation revenues are bridged, if investment resources are based on overgrown indirect taxes, will they mean nailing? In recent years, TCDD has been working for a serious transformation. Foreign companies were reported with millions of dollars.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0166par0150	Mr. Silver, your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0165par0151	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0166par0153	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the "or companies" included at the end of the "b" and "d" dams of Article (1) of Article 2 of the Law Bill on the Freedom of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the bill, and the "e" be changed in the following manner. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends e) Community service obligation: TCDD Transport A. S's duty to transport the railroad passengers and cargo. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty? We can't participate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0167par0164	Dear Enver Erdem...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0166par0165	Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0168par0167	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Article 2 of the Bill of Law on the Freedom of Turkish Railway Transport 441. I salute your high council. Of course, the law we're talking about, the issue of the State Railways of the Republic of Turkey, we see as a national issue as the National Movement Party. From 1950 onwards, he says that we see the point of both transport and transportation as inadequate in both developed European countries and world standards, and that we will support the whole of the right projects on this issue as the National Movement Party. Sure, it's about the railroads. I think it's right to bring up some of the problems related to bridges and railways in Elazig, my constituency area, which concerns the service area of our Transport Ministry. First of all, Mr. Minister, this network, launched during the rule of the National Movement Party, has been half-delayed for nearly fifteen years. In every question asked you, these are being projected. He's going to be tendered, he's being made..... he's being held at this stage. We'd appreciate it if you'd explain to us what happened to the Bridge of this Network, as well as to those who are on the screen. In addition, do you have any insights about this Pertek Bridge, which the Prime Minister has brought up twice at the rally in Elazıg? Whether or not this Pertek Bridge will be built or not, we would appreciate it if you explained what it costs, if it has a plan project, if you will do the bidding. A congressman just asked me. The Charcohan Bridge, in fact, needs to be evaluated along with it. Here's the answer you gave to a question motion I asked you about in 2011, Mr. Secretary. It's exactly the same as the answer you just gave me. So, it's being done again in 2011, it's being auctioned in 2012. You said, you can't even tell when the tender will be held in 2013. Now, Minister, one of the most important issues of Elazığ is the demand of Elazığ to take the railway line out of the centre of Elazığ. This problem is an important problem, not only in Elaziğ, but also in many cities in Turkey, in almost all countries in the world. Some of these railways, built about a hundred years ago, remained out of the service area, along with the urbanization and development of the city. Currently, the Kızılay, Kesrik, Hidırek neighborhoods of Elazıg are completely deprived of roads, water, transportation, electricity, gas, almost all services, and a project about the moving of the railway line in the centre of the city to the south of Mt.M. Now, I actually have the details of this. It costs about $60 million. In fact, we're also considering that the sale of the land would be much lower, given the fact that the price of publicisation is not going to be paid. We also consider the immediate implementation of this project to be very important for the development of Elizıg. Again, I'd like to rephrase here that a similar problem occurred in Baskil district of Elazığ. We know that about 14km of railway lines pass through the district in Baskil district, which, in particular, comes downtown and divides the county into several parts by making it,,,,,,,,,,,. As a result, Mr. Minister, a passenger or freight train in the Baskil district has to travel for approximately 20 minutes, 25 minutes. Now, considering the dangerous situation they've brought, the economic burdens they've brought, the problems we face to make human life difficult, I offer these problems to your attention, all of you, with respect.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0169par0176	Thank you, Your Grace. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 3 of Article (2) of the Law Bill (2) of the 441 Numbered Turkey Railway Transport be removed from the bill and that the "b" bendi be identified according to this, (1) the pearl joke and (2) the pearl joke "c", "d", "e" and "f" be replaced in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Halaman (1) TCDD serves as a railway infrastructure operator on the government-saving railway infrastructure in the national railway infrastructure network. C) To determine, assess, and collect traffic management fees on the national railway infrastructure network that is not in its savings, with equal conditions for its own railway operators, and without discrimination. ) Running areas that are not related to railway traffic in the railway infrastructure that is in its savings, D) To do or do studies such as maintenance, improvement, renovation, and expansion of the railway infrastructure in its savings. e) building or building railway infrastructure for conventional, high-speed and fast train transport. F) Establish, establish, develop, and operate communications facilities and networks. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the relevant material text of B, c, c, d, e and f, g. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Haluk Ahmet Silver Turgay Develi Uğur Bayraktutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 441 Rows 3 of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Nazmi Gür Sabat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Fair Kurt Idris Bauken Erol Dora "In fact, TCDD operates as a railway infrastructure operator on railway infrastructure, regardless of whether it is in the national railway infrastructure network or not in the state's savings. (2) TCDD's other tasks include: A) is a monopoly on railway traffic on the national railway infrastructure network. B) To set the price of traffic management on the railway infrastructure that is in its savings, equal conditions for all train operators and not discriminated against, to impose and collect on relevant railway operators. C) Running the railway infrastructure's non-rail traffic areas. D) To improve, renovate, expand, maintain and repair the railway infrastructure in its savings. e) building railway infrastructure for high speed and fast train transport. F) establish communication facilities and networks, install them, develop them, operate them. G) Do other tasks given with the main status." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0170par0218	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0169par0219	I'm reading the reason: The reason why railway management is reliable is that traffic and connected services are conducted in a monopoly and adherent to strict rules. This is a general and valid situation for the entire railway business. One of the most important things about railway management is that security is essential. If this bill is legalized, it could cause major fatal and financial accidents on the railways. Neoliberal policies and restructuring efforts resulted in the privatisation, privatisation of public institutions and continued reduction of public services. This negative development has also affected railway management, in which almost many countries have been privatized by privatisation of railways. Britain, for example, has pioneered this practice. In addition to running a train in England, infrastructure and traffic services have been privatized and are "free-edged," as they call it at the time. But after a while, fatal accidents came to light. After decades of loss of life and many accidents, Britain again began to run railway management by a public company as a public service. This method was also tried in our country in 2005, and it was encouraged to run private railways with its own trains and personnel on our lines. THE EMERGENCY THAT STARTS TO BE A TRANSLATOR IN THIS COMMUNITY.The Cevher train, which was run by ', went astray between Cetinkaya and Hekimhan on September 19, 2005. The practice was abandoned after the accident. As a result, the 3rd draft of the bill. The clause must be changed in the manner we propose to preserve this monopoly and the quality of public service. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the relevant material text of B, c, c, d, e and f, g. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0171par0234	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0169par0235	Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0172par0237	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party group following the motion on Article 3 of the Law Bill 441. I salute your high council. I'm not going to talk about the railroads here today. Your relationship with the Black Sea... actually, the Black Sea railroads are very important to the Black Sea, but there's another problem, I'll talk about it. On April 22nd, Monday, the chakra worker begins the strike. I'd like to tell you about the strike of the chakra worker. I'd like to tell you why the strike has come to terms, why these conditions have occurred. About 10,000 workers work in China, my dear friends. Of the 10,000 workers, 9,000 members are members of the TECGIDA-HIS Union, and a thousand are members of the Special GlDA-İS Union. Tea is a strategic product more important to the Black Sea than anything else. If tea is as important to the Black Sea as nuts to the Black Sea, just as important to the Black Sea. In the Black Sea, however, an operation launched in 2008 in particular in these recent years was launched by the Special GlDA-İSK Union. Now, let me put it this way, my dear friends: in the Black Sea, the TEKGIDA-HIS Syndicate has an identity that has been identified with CHAKUR, Rize, beyond the identity of a trade union. An operation is being launched here in 2008 because this union identity disturbs some politicians. It's said, "Sir, let's put aside the TEKGIDA-HIS Syndicate, where we can operate the private GlDA-İS Union and make them the union in charge." In the process of this, the union and the management of TEEYKUR become identical. So in the contract with Public Business, the union administration -- the TEKGDA-HIS Union -- thinks he's taking over the government of China against himself, but he's faced with a situation where the PRIDA-HRIS Union and the CHIKUR administration, in a sense, side with him. And as a result of this operation in 2008, fake documents, deaths, and I know the legal side of this business -- there's a serious operation under way to bring down this union so that we can put the private GlDA-İST, the advocacy union, against us. On one side of the operation -- Mr. Secretary here -- there's the Department of Labor and Social Security. According to documents, information, including death, false information, documents -- the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which Mr. Secretary of State, has sent to him -- he is in charge of the PRIDA-HS Syndicate. But, you know, there are judges in this country, you know, the judges in Berlin, there are still judges in this country, Mr. Secretary. They eliminate this misdemeanor procedure in 2008, and the decisions passed through the Supreme Court twice as a member of the government's TEKGIDA-İS Union, which is a material sentence, are passed through the Supreme Court, and they say, "The authority union here is TEKGIDA-ist." According to the Supreme Court hearings, we'll give you your rights as if they didn't exist, as if they didn't exist now, as if they didn't exist. We'll give you your rights in the history of signing the social rights between 2009 and 2010, but we'll have to do whatever social rights you have. A thousand workers will benefit from the rights we have given to TEKGIDA-HIS. Now, friends, there's an event that takes advantage of what's under the burden. It is not possible to accept an imposition like this alone, to impose any form of imposition by the LEACUR administration. According to the established Supreme Court, all members who have signed under the union's contract at that time can benefit from these rights. TEKGIDA-İST is calling out to all the public, saying: "Let the thousand of our friends who are members of the GlDA-İST come, let them be members of our union, let them take advantage of all the rights we have earned, let them take advantage of all the social rights we have made with the contract. (AS/TK) My dear friends, on one hand, there's a huge union, with 9,000 people in charge, and there's a company on the other side of this union that he considers the side of the contract, which is that there's no way to accept it, side by side with private GIDA-İST, side by side with the subsidiary union. Therefore, on Monday (April 22nd), at 9:00 p.m., TECGIDA-ISS launches strike power from its own power, along with 10,000 workers. For Turkey -- I don't mean for the Black Sea -- I salute the Turkish Grand National Assembly for this strike by a strategic product-based chaykur worker. I also say to the government: I strongly urge the government to remove this error that has been made by the government, to remove this practice which would have been a victim to 10,000 workers because of its involvement with the PRIDA-H union, and to remove its demand against it, in line with the established Supreme Court. Once again, I said in my speech about tea, that the Black Sea servant would not be an American servant. From here, I salute the strike of the worker, saying, "May their path be clear." I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0173par0246	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 3 of Article (2) of the Law Bill (2) of the 441 Numbered Turkey Railway Transport be removed from the bill and that the "b" bendi be identified according to this, (1) the pearl joke and (2) the pearl joke "c", "d", "e" and "f" be replaced in the following way. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends (1) TCDD serves as a railway infrastructure operator on the government-saving railway infrastructure in the national railway infrastructure network. (2) determine, impose, and collect traffic management fees on the national railway infrastructure network, which is not registered in 231, with equal conditions for its own railway operators and without discrimination. ) Running areas that are not related to railway traffic in the railway infrastructure that is in its savings, D) To do or do studies such as maintenance, improvement, renovation, and expansion of the railway infrastructure that is in its savings. e) building or building railway infrastructure for conventional, high-speed and fast train transport. F) Establish, establish, develop, and operate communications facilities and networks. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0174par0262	Motive.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0173par0263	Read the reason, please. Any maintenance, repair and renovation efforts by TCDD were intended to be carried out by TCDD to prevent railway infrastructure from becoming a monopoly for foreign companies in the sector and not part of the national infrastructure. I submit to your votes the motion has been read on the grounds that those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft of Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law on the Liberation of the Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the text of the bill. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Doğan Şaş Haydar Akar Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Kalkavan.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0175par0281	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to the Fourth Amendment of the Bill on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport. I salute you all. A number of important provisions have been issued by the AKP government in the number 28102 daily of November 1, 2011, in the number of times published in the number of copies of the daily's daily, and the infrastructure of the liquidation of the Turkish Republic's State Railways has been laid out by the State Railways, under the Act on Transport, Maritime and Missions of the Ministry of Maritime and Telecommunications. This bill will cause the railway system to be taken out of public control and to be torn apart by the TCDD, to be closed down on the grounds that a profitable institution has not profited, to have the train expeditions removed, and to have the land of the TCDD (TCDD) be repossessed. The arrangements in the railways should be made by the country's interests and by the participation of working representatives, but due to AKP government policies, this institution is sought to be liberalised by the World Bank's direction and financing. There are no elements of the employees involved in the arrangements intended to be made in this manner. The railroad workers are being eliminated and their social rights are being taken away. This law will negatively affect passengers and freight carriers who benefit from all railway workers and railways. The AKP's government, as in all areas, has not consulted any trade union and occupational organisations in the liberalisation of the Railways, and has given no information on the reasons for the draft. All authority is granted to the Minister, the political authority. The monopoly in railway transport is required to be removed but will be created internationally, followed by alienation of the TCDD. With the removal of the monopoly, transportation will be opened to third parties and will bring with it many problems. Passengers and freight carriers who use railway transport will also begin to take more advantage of this service, contrary to what the Minister said. With the monopoly lifted, subcontractorisation will also be widespread, and they will also face problems with employees being subjected to arbitrary practices, having their jobs reduced, and running in companies without union or security. The use of unsecured and cheap labor will open the way. Part of the employees of the 1506-year-old institution currently short-staffed are also wanted to be encouraged to retire. In this case, how do you close the gap in the number of staff who have already spent a year or two of training? The understanding of the AKP government, which wants to transfer the grown-up staff to retirement and move on with the inexperienced staff, is not understandable. It also brings to mind the creation of a new political staffing, with the provisions and draft of Law No. 655 and TCDD. In order to determine employment in a healthy manner, employment must be employed according to the man's principle, not according to work. One of the things that needs to be focused on is the incentive to retire. The PTT Law, another entity belonging to the same Ministry, is limited to a month in TCDD. In such a short period of time, how can the service be conducted without fail be followed? With this feeling and thought, I pay my respects to all of you, that if this law passes, I wish that the law be good to Turkey.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0176par0293	Thank you, Mr. Kalkavan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added to Article 5 of the Law Bill on the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport. Lütfü Türkkan Mustafa Kalaycı D. Ali Torlak (3) Sports Toto Agency revenues and National Lottery revenues are used for railway infrastructure investments by 1%. (4) It is transferred to the Finance Ministry's TCDD budget as a contribution from the municipal budget of 5% of the amount of investments set for new lines through the Metropolitan and municipal municipality settlements and those to be built depending on it. No price will be paid for the municipal land in publicisation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 1 of Article 5 of the Turkish Railway Transport from the text of Article B and 2 of the First Amendment. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Sakine Öz Haluk Eyidoğan Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We can't participate, sir. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0177par0317	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th amendment of the bill we continue to discuss. I salute the High Council. In all countries where the railway market has been liberalised, lawmakers have claimed to have covered all costs for railway investment maintenance, repair and traffic in all countries, as a basis for this provision for financing the TCDD investments. That claim is not true. The modeled EU countries, the Netherlands and Germany, when entering the private sector railway area, faced certain obligations and were not transferred to infrastructure investments unless public resources are mandatory. In private sector infrastructure investments, he usually took care of himself and naturally reflected its cost at his prices. Companies policies, aimed at keeping costs low, created huge international monopoly while swallowing small fish under heavy competitive conditions. Companies making less than infrastructure investments have been able to cover their losses through train management. We're going to block all the cross subsidies you want. Even if you say, "The international monopoly will take both infrastructure and train management and we'll see the big score when the parts here start to give to their subcontractors. You've left the entrance and exit doors so open in this bill that every lucky company that wins the Ministry's appreciation is running for the corner. The government makes the investments, TCDD takes over the move. International companies are invited to enjoy honey creamy food in train restaurants, under the direction of the Ministry. If the government says that if the railways are free, the infrastructure and train management will be fully open to the competition of the private sector, the price of tickets will be cheaper, the world examples, especially the monopoly in the Netherlands and Germany will always prove to us that there are no cheap tickets available. Members of parliament, the 5th article of the bill, which we discussed, (2), is about the adoption of the connective lines within demand. On the grounds of the government, the main lines of railway linkages, such as warehouses, factories, will be nationalized in order to encourage transport and cargo through iron. I draw your attention: the joke is called publicized, it is not called publicized. In this bill, the TCDD (TCDD) has no discretionary authority if an application is granted to it, it does not have the authority to assess publicisation through the principle of public interest or the status of the area to be nationalized. The bill creates an economic government thank-you that has been forced to make publicisation in the application of third parties. Congressmans, this joke clearly violates the Law of Publicisation and the logic of publicisation, the judiciary. It is proof that the bill is intended to benefit the private sector, not the public service. The purpose of publicisation is, as always, the public benefit. A person will request the TCDD for publicisation, but the administration will not have the authority to evaluate this request. The private sector needs a link line to carry material, and when you say that area, the TCDD will be tied down, turning it into an orderly. The TCDD Inc cannot offer any public benefit to a firm who has applied for a link line and is willing to pay the price in advance, but has to do the publicization. This provision, which does not discuss the legal problems that may arise when converting the TCDD to an anonymous company, which brings a huge burden to the state in infrastructure investments, is problematic in the private sector, which compresses the private sector to publicise TCDD in favour of the private sector, which does not prior to a decision to publicize an economic state administration. The bill, which gives the ministry excessive authority over many issues, does not give TCDD (TCDD) credit to TCDD (TCDD) in publicisation of the demand of third parties. This is unacceptable. I salute the High Assembly with the idea that this bill, which is a lump of economic, social and legal problems, will not contribute to our country's supply of railroads.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0178par0328	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added to Article 5 of the Bill of the Law on the Freedom of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends (3) Sports Toto Agency revenues and National Lottery revenues to be used in railway infrastructure investments are exported by 1%. (4) It is transferred to the Finance Ministry's TCDD budget as a contribution from the municipal budget of 5% of the amount of investments set for new lines through the Metropolitan and municipal municipality settlements and those to be built depending on it. No price will be paid for the municipal land in publicisation. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0179par0339	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0178par0340	Mr. Tin Man, here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0180par0342	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In order to increase railway transport, which is very inadequate in our country, infrastructure investments must be made quickly. Our proposal is to provide resources for railway investments from the budget, as well as additional financial resources. Serious production fields, hundreds of miles from the sea all over the world, have been created by solving logistical problems. In our country, it is often necessary to take advantage of the dynamic power of Central Anatolia, and the vast potential for production of Konya in private. For the Konian industrialist and exporter, transportation to the port is of great importance at a very low and low cost, but the Konya-Karaman-Mersin railway line has been reciprocal, signaled, operating-speed infrastructure project has been moving very slowly for years. This project, which entered the Investment Programme in 2007, lasted a long period of study, project work, and was only received a CED report this year. Production was finally part of this year's investment programme. Again, Iconia lingered over the establishment of logistical centers. This project, which entered the Investment Programme in 2007, was envisioned to end in 2010, then 2011, then 2012, and is scheduled to be completed in 2015, according to this year's investment programme. Again, study projects continue for Antalya-Konya-Aksaray-Nevşehir-Kayseri Iron Road Project, which has been part of the investment programme for several years. These projects will give strength to the power of Konya, and Turkey. Therefore, without delay, it must be carried out immediately. Dear lawmakers, investments in the modern public transport system must be carried out quickly to address the problems of domestic transportation in our major cities. In this case, special incentives should be applied for the production of trams, subways, and rail systems in our country. I'm going to bring up one thing: the Iconian Metropolitan Municipality has ordered 60 trams to a Czech firm at 104.7m euros in the contract signed last month. On the other hand, Bursa Metropolitan Mayor, who was a guest on a TV channel of Konya, announced that the busy work at Bursa was carried out by the construction of the local tram called the ipepek beetle, and that the European and world standards document had been received. The question of why he did not take the trams from Bursa is also why he told the city of Iconia that he wanted to bring the trams immediately because the elections were coming up and that he wanted me to run on the new trams. As it turns out, instead of thinking big about both the city and its country's interests, the city of Iconia, the city of Metropolitan City, is thinking about how the upcoming election and election will fool the Konians. In addition, a lot of public resources have been squandered in the campaign You Choose the Color of the Trambah, when it is clear that the outcome will come to be green and white. There must be a reckoning of transactions based on this arbitrary and political interest account and the waste of public resources. The cognac industry also has the capacity to produce trams. As long as they have visionary executives. If only instead of asking for the color of the tram, it had been asked if it could produce a railway for the Konian industrialist, and for that the infrastructure had been laid out. In our country, having high-profit technology and brand products, the development of our industry, the solution to the current open problem, in short, is of great importance to our economy. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0181par0352	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 6 of Article 6 of Turkish Railway Transport from the text of Article B and Article 5 of Article 1 of Article 6 of Article 6 of Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Born Dawn resident Self-Qadir Gökmen Öğümün Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0182par0365	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0181par0366	Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0183par0368	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the 6th Amendment of the Bill of Law on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport. From the beginning to the end of this law, there is only one goal: under this law, the idea of privatisation of the railways in the name of freedom, and the monopoly of the private sector, as many public institutions and establishments want to do. As a matter of fact, the use of the word "freedom" is the greatest proof that there is nothing but privatisation. First, you have to say that the method and procedure of drafting the law is wrong. When drafting such a vital draft of a law that concerns staff as closely as the institution does, it is thought not to be taken from unions and associations. No doubt it is necessary to restructure TCDD (TCDD) and make it in line with the needs of the age. Because there has been no investment in railways for many years, and no improvements have been made. Many expeditions of the TCDD have been removed, flights have been interrupted, infrastructure has been left behind the age. A new study must be done in accordance with the purpose of the establishment of the TCDD. TCDD should serve the public, not the capital. The goal is not to adapt to the EU, making the railway network more active with the support of the private sector. With investments only shifted to high-speed train projects, traditional railway transport will be halted, the railway network will be placed in foreign hands, while experienced employees who already know work will be retired and subcontractors of subcontractorisation with an unsecured working system will be replaced. The number of employees of the State Railways, which had previously had more than 50,000 employees, has dropped to 32,000, including 4,000 subcontractors. TCDD will eventually be dispossessed because their example has been experienced by AKP power. This bill is more than just a purge of a century and a half of railways. In the event of the bill's legalisation, railway transport, which is still an alternative and important transport network for the wider population, will become expensive. The experience of the recruits to be replaced by the dissolution of long-term workers will also be discussed, so accidents and setbacks will be inevitable. Privatisation of railways has been tested in many countries but has not been successful. England is one of the latest examples. British railways have suffered a massive collapse, frequent accidents, amongst the most frequently expressed complaints. The plan of this operation is prearranged. The Haydarpaşa Station has been shut down step-by-step by step with an organized operation for an appetizers whose appetite is heightened. The AKP, who lied that it was working for the people, has cut off Istanbul's Anatolian connection with Haydarpaşa and has victimised employees, officers, students who choose the cheap and secure route. The government doesn't give a damn about those who go to Anatolia. The AKP, who doesn't know or care about the money that goes into the public's pocket, is concerned about filling the pockets of its own supporters. By defunctioning Haydarpaşa, the public has been distracted and rolled up for a new zoning operation. It is not enough that they have broken all of Istanbul's skylines, but they are now planning to destroy Haydarpaşa and his surroundings. No country has ever seen cultural values destroyed except Turkey. Haydarpaşa is everyone's nostalgia with a hundred and five years of history. Haydarpaşa smells not only history, but longing, joy, tears. Touching it means betraying history, betraying the people. However, the zoning plan for Istanbul's Metropolitan Assembly, drafted by members of the AKP, has been decided to organise Haydarpaşa Garı as a cultural facility, a housing area. The 817,000 square meters of the area will be divided into construction. Istanbul's last public area will become an intensive construction centre and will become a centre of hotel and trade. The existing zoning plan is not only against the law, but also against the zoning plan. According to the plan, there will be high construction in the region, skyscrapers that will produce population density, and construction that threatens ecological balance that does not conform to the city's structure. Every day we face a new surprise about Haydarpaşa and his surroundings in the development plan. Last week, there was talk of a portable stadium of 100,000 people. It's clear that this huge structure is intended to create a runt on someone and fill the sea with the waste. Dear lawmakers, there are always privatisations among the good statements of the economy. You still can't tell the economy good by eating from the ready. You're short on budgets, you can't fit the bill into the market, you're attacking public resources. Remember, the republic's most important institutions were first dispossessed by privatisation during the AKP period. The AKP will one day be under those tracks. The railroads belong to your people and your people must remain. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0184par0381	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the word "compliance" be added before the word "designation" in Article 10 of Article 7 of the Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of "the path of justice is open" following the declaration of "in accordance with the relevant legislation" at the end of Article 7 of the Law Charter (10) about the liberalisation of the 441 Numbered Turkish Railway Transport. Ali Halaman Seyfettin Yilmaz D. Ali Torlak Does the commission agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0185par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0186par0401	Motive...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0184par0402	I'm reading the reason: Property rights are the most fundamental elements of international law. The proposal aims to prevent the impact of property rights by taking a routine political defense, such as building or delaying the construction of the railway infrastructure network. Moreover, the owner of the property has the right to take legal action. I submit to your votes the motion has been read on the grounds that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the word "compliance" be added before the word "designation" in Article 10 of Article 7 of the Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0187par0413	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0184par0414	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0188par0416	Mr. President, it's clear that in the first part of the talk, the so-called State Railways, or the Transport Ministry, that the amount of investment that I've received for 2023 perspectives is 367 billion, which is equivalent to 30 billion per year, but in exchange for that, the amount that is left from the state budget is 11 billion, and the ratio of this perspective is 52 per cent, which is not going to happen. So, what's being done to make it happen? You might think that, you know, other public institutions and corporations outside the Railways are being sold once, you brag about privatisation in Turkey, about $40 billion, but when you look at the transformation of these privatisations into investments, we see a whole zero together. If privatisations really turned into investments, the unemployment rate in the country wouldn't be so high today. What I'm saying is that if you hadn't used the money to cover your public deficit, you wouldn't be in debt today if you hadn't used it to cover the deficit in the budget. Now, why am I saying this? A friend of mine just told me again, you used the taxes collected from the earthquake for the roads, the foreign loans you took, which the Prime Minister says is over -- as an example of our external debt. But besides that, you're using $118 billion in external debt to do this. So when you look at it, you see that the government doesn't make it into an investment with revenue from institutions from the factories that it sells with its own means, its taxes. The Minister just said here again, right, the Gulf crossing, one of the big projects. There's a transition, but who's making it? You make it sound like the government's doing it, making it sound like it's being done by government facilities. Who's doing this? It's a private consortium, a foreign consortium. How much will the citizen go through here? It's going to go through $35 and you're guaranteeing passage. We're going to build a new airport. You're saying, you're going to sell this new airport at the end of privatisations, you're going to sell the State Railways, you're going to sell the PTT, you're going to talk about what you've already sold, you're going to do it again. What are you doing? You're giving it to a foreign company, and you're spending 30 years and 40 years of Turkey again. It's all here. Now, if I were to ask you, what have you sold in this country in the last ten years, you wouldn't answer one by one, maybe you wouldn't remember. Let me remind you: you sold Turkish TELECOM, sold the sugar factories, sold the banks, sold the flour factories, sold the paper factories, sold the paper factories, sold the cement factories, sold the thermal plants, sold the meat power plants, sold the Khrom, sold the energy distribution companies, sold the land, sold the steel factories, sold the emmerbanks, sold the ports, sold the auto testing stations, sold the natural gas companies, sold the thermal plants, sold the meat roads, sold the Khrom, sold the EKEKI, sold the energy distribution companies, sold the land, sold the land, sold the steel factories. Can you remember how many facilities you sold like this, and with $40 billion from here, I'm asking you now -- what facility did you build tomorrow that you could sell? I'm asking, what facility did you build with the money you earned here? You can't give an example.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0189par0422	Hundreds...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0188par0423	The examples you've given...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0190par0424	Very, very...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0188par0425	You can't. Now, you're saying we're doing the Deep Dam, so here's the loans you got. This is where you get the foreign loans. You've borrowed the future of Turkey, 50 years, 30 years, 100 years, and you can't leave a single nail to the next generation. Tell me, what did you do with all that money? What did you do with all that debt, $40 billion privatisation? You've done nothing but cover the budget deficit. And when you sold this -- you didn't turn it into investment -- did you prevent unemployment? No, Turkey is one of the most unemployed countries in the world. 44% of those employed work for minimum wage. The minimum wage, as you all know, is below the cost of $7757 and 1,000 euros of hunger. Now, if you want to brag about it, be my guest. What you're doing is 888 kilometers of fast track. I just gave you the numbers again. Freight transport is very important, there are organized industrial areas. Which organized industrial area did you draw the railroad line to? Yeah, you're laughing over there, come on in here and sing. Which organized industrial area, which factory, during your ten-year reign, did you draw a railroad line? Unless you can give me an example. Here, if you do that, he'll come here and we'll thank you. Other than that, you're not doing anything. You sell all the property of Turkey, you sell the land, you go after it, I give you love, respect.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0191par0430	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. There are two motions on the 8th article. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 8 of Article 8 and Article 3 of Turkish Railway Transport from the text of the article. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar Sakine Öz Erdal Aksinger Doğan Şaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 441 Rows 8 of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Halil Aksoy Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Kürçı İdris Bauken Fair Kurt Erol Dora "Made 8 - (1) Railroad and railway processing are basic public services. The lines hired by TCDD are that private companies, which will run trains, cannot act outside of the public service of train management or out of public service. (2) The funds needed for public service obligations are put into the Ministry budget. (3) The scope of the public service obligation is determined by the Council of Ministers, according to procedure and fundamentally." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0192par0452	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0191par0453	I'm having it read. It is a basic human right, such as transportation, education, and health. It can't be abandoned by commercial and market conditions. Apart from income/god accounts, it should be considered a basic right and should be described as such. This quality is a key condition for transportation to be viewed as a public service. For this reason, transportation must be provided as a public service, no matter who is given by it. That's why public service can't have time or status. Public service is unique and indispensable. The quality of public service cannot be changed by displaying contract provisions, lack of funds or other grounds during the implementation of the transport service as a public service. With this amendment proposal, this quality of public service is brought forward and secured. Eight for those reasons. The matter must be changed the way we propose. I submit to your votes the motion has been read on the grounds that those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Law on the liberalisation of the Turkish Railway Transport be removed from the text of the article of Articles 1/3. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0193par0465	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0191par0466	Mr. Aksinger...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0194par0468	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to say a few things about privatisation here. Our Minister isn't here, he's gone, he's become the shadow minister, because if it were him, I'd ask him something else. Now, the bottom line of privatisation is this: Now, you're telling people that pay your tax as a basic social government principle, and let it come back to you as road, water, electricity. And the clocks get stuck in the water, and in the next process -- probably -- I'm writing here today -- it's going to be privatized because there's a scaling system, it's going over this scaling system. Those who wear clocks in the groundwaters will privatize it in the future, I'm writing it here. The issue was followed by examples related to Germany. Let me tell you, the logic of these actions is to reduce and grow public services. When you look at Germany's freedom in this regard, it has actually deceived the whole of Europe, along with France. Why did he cheat you? Because Deutsche Bahn is still in the hands of the state, 75 per cent, from the north to the south, after they threw England into the pit, they took over Europe with France. If this privatisation freedom comes to Turkey, don't worry, Deutsche Bahn will enter Turkey and complete the entire battery. It will complete the current from here to China, because we have no right, no law. The European Union may have given us some rights at this point, but don't worry, it's today's play of Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Germany and France. Let us not fall into the pit of England, my friends. How did he get cheap? Have all the services in the IDO been cheap? It's almost doubled, and the people have rebelled, and they've cried, and since everyone's up against the doors and the windows, they've been forced to put an adjustment back into it. Our friend just mentioned Turkish TELEKOM. Let me give you a lot of examples. His turnover has reached 90 billion dollars today, since it has been privatized. His profit is twice what he paid for three years. I'd like to say, is there a sale on his service? I'll give you a very simple example: it's the same, it provides Internet service, it provides infrastructure. His main services are now trading, and he's already been everywhere. South Korea, for example: In South Korea, the Internet is sold at three times our speed, for one third, and this man is profiting. One of the highest companies in the world is Turkish TELEKOM. How the hell is that possible? How's that? So, the Internet goes cheap to the public? No. There's no such thing. It's all a hoax. So look at all of the services of Turkish TELECOM -- he has left them -- now he has taken on trade that will actually cause unfair competition. In fact, I'm doing this as a criminal complaint, and I'm a man who believes the Competition Committee should handle it. I gave these examples because he called it public benefit, on the privatisation side. What's left? Yeah, this is all community service. You've marketed electricity, you've given liberal processes, and then you've done the same way, about what I claim to be doing -- what I'm writing about today, I think, is the basis for clocking underground waters -- in the next five decades, I think there's going to be a liberal process of water that's going to be one of the most important problems in the world. We'll see, it's a very important process. Some of the issues about this the next day, the issues that have happened in Europe, don't worry, in three years, the water-related companies will come to Turkey, because the most valuable thing will be water, and that will be the strategic issue in the future. What's left for you to see as community service? There's education, there's health, there's law. You're privatizing education. Turkish TELEKOM, this institution, which you call Turkish TELEKOM, will shut down all the classrooms in the coming period. I'm writing here, he's going to shut it down. Why? He's going to shut it down to make a virtual classroom, and he's going to be a monopoly on all of it, and then, after that, all of those classrooms that you know will go back to private schools. Health...
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0195par0478	Health is gone!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0194par0479	You've already privatized it. There's nothing left. There's only one legal issue, and I can see that there's an order going on, and it's privatized. So he's specialized, too.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0196par0481	They're taking down T.C.!
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0194par0482	Oh, the most important thing here, I think, is to define what public service is after this. Marketing, that's the story of the new liberal order in front of us, but we'll tell you about it in a wider time, we'll be sure to tell you what it is. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0197par0486	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the other safety measures of Article 9 of Turkish Railway Transport be changed as ▪ other technical-equipped safety measures in Article 2 of Article 9 of Turkish Railway Transport. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Haydar Akar Sakine Öz Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0198par0499	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0197par0500	Mr. Canalioğlu, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0199par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our precious Minister of Transport, are not here, but Mr. Secretary of Defense is here. I said, why not? Now, as the Black Sea, my dear friends, we don't have a problem with the liberalisation of the railways, we don't have a problem with that. Why not? For in the Black Sea, we have no network of railroads, from Samsun to Sarp, or from the interiors, to the GAP. That's why we don't have a problem there. But Tercan, who had been dreaming of Ataturk, many years ago, had the thought of connecting Ashkale to Tripoli, over Bayburt, over Rizzona, over Rizeah, and over Yeniay Shipyard, over the Ark, over the Arsin, to Tripoli. That thought was a very true thought and a beautiful dream. But because of the conditions of the day our country was in, that dream and thought were not realized. Today, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, our valued citizen, says he plans a 630km railway line connecting Tripoli and Diyarbakır, which will start from Erzincan (Erzincan) and reach Tripoli from the GAP, Syria and Iraq and will be linked to the Black Sea. We're wondering, is there such a project? When will it be done if there is? We asked our Transport Minister, Mr. Bazili Yıldırım, where is the 200km Erzincan-Güssüsmüshane-Trebolu-Trabzon Railroad Line Project? My ministers, we give these written questions, we give them questions, all the parties give them. Let me tell you something about this: A very important politician of time is coming to Tripoli, the constituency region. Citizens, I am running for office again. I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to vote. When you say "I'm asking you to vote," you're asking the citizens, the voters, and we're saying, "Dear politician, this time we're going to read our vote." I did the ministry. He says I speak English, French, German. The voters say: "Well, why didn't you answer the letters we wrote when you were able to read and write so much?" Dear ministers, dear friends, look, answer them. If you don't answer that, your voters will vote for the reader tomorrow and leave you in the chest. It's obvious you'll be staying in the trunk. Your government, which has not yet completed its project or has not even begun the construction of the railways that continue to debate, must first implement this project that the people of the region need. Mr. Secretary should listen to the voice of the people of the region. Realisation of the railway project will contribute greatly to the industrial, economic and development of the Black Sea region, particularly Tripoli. For the target of 500 billion exports in 2023, the Batum-Hopa-Rize-Trabzon-Gerasun-Ordu-Sassun network must be connected to the railway line and the construction of the needed railway line must be started immediately, as well as in the GAP area, north and southeast. Because the Russian Federation of our region, including other BDT countries and Turkish republics, is not connected to the Asian geography and the railway, our exporters face great difficulties in transport and are not afforded competition because of the high transport costs paid. Is there a master's plan in the DOCAP master's plan when transport between DOCAP, GAP and DAP is clear and clear? That's what I'm asking your government. My dear friends, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our republic, on 15 September 1924 -- I believe our Republican MPs are not here, and I call them -- referring to the iron track in his first visit to Tripoli, which he referred to as: "It is a noble, intelligent, dedicated, hard -- that he sees our Trabzon, raptoluned in just a short time with internal chemists, a beautiful dock and harbor." But unfortunately, a hundred years of dreams have not come true. Dear friends, the liberalisation of the railways means privatisation. Our ancestral land, our goods have come to a certain point, what else is left to sell? We'll weave our country with iron nets, you say. But you don't tell us what you're going to rip and sell, let alone knit with iron nets again. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit03spe0200par0512	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2013-04-18sit04spe0200par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 441. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Companies' Co-operation Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers, which is in the 4th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the Commission was not to be found after this, the decision was made that the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be held on Tuesday (April 23rd 2013) to celebrate its 93rd anniversary and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, and to announce the significance and significance of the day. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
