tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, March 18th is the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, one of the greatest battles of the century. Çanakkale is the story of a great success that has been won by heroic sons, who have not been given to any nation throughout history, after months of a difficult struggle against seven heifers. It has been a test of fire, where the sheep of the henna, and the white-strength mothers, and the brides of the henna, and the bearded grandfathers, and the lions of Bedr Goshale roared, and Çanakkale. Çanakkale is the master of a prayer from the front to the front, barefoot, hungry, with grandkids on his shoulder, grandmothers with faith in his heart, whose account for the historically embarrassing oppressors is the master of a prayer. In Çanakkale, the Threepnars, the Lance Corporals of Seyit, and the Abrahams of Lapsekeli, and all of our martyrs who met the earth, who drank the heroic sherbet of the bitter death bowl, flew to the Lord with great pride. On the occasion of the 98th anniversary of the victory of Canakkale on March 18, we remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. [[Applause]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is from Çanakkale MP İsmail Kashdemir, who wanted to mention the March 18 Martyrs Memorial Day and the 98th anniversary of Çanakkale Deniz Victory.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the 18th March Martyrs' Day and the 98th anniversary of the Canakkale Sea Victory. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, on March 18th, yesterday, our Prime Minister, our ministers and members of parliament, and at the same time our citizens from all over our country, we celebrated the 18 March Çanakkale Deniz Victory with great excitement and enthusiasm. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Çanakkale is one of the bloodiest, greatest and most heroic battles in the history of the world. It's where the first word of the Republic of Turkey is written, born from the ashes of a nation, trust in a friend, inspire fear in the enemy, and declare to the world what an inseparable and indivisible nation can do together. The Çanakkale Sea Victory is a tremendous victory that amazes the whole world of what our nation can accomplish when they believe that our Mehmet-chicks, who write myths with their blood, are reborn in spite of the absences. Behind this great victory lies the great spirit that is fearlessly revealed by people from all parts of the nation, through the feelings of unity and unity. It's such a great spirit that they all left for good. So they went, and they went in thousands, and tens of thousands, and hundreds of thousands. Today they left so that we could live on this land with honor. They went to the bloody trenches of Çanakkale, never to return, and one day a task fell upon them all: to die for the land. They left without hesitation. It was so beautiful, so beautiful that where they were going, they went away and never came back. In Turkish, they became us, together with the Kurd, with the Laz, with the Circeşek, with the Bosniak, with the Arab, with the Muslim, with the non-Muslim, and with the non-Muslim. The regimental medical examiner, Captain Dimitroyati, lived with us, cried with us, laughed together. He was with us in the battle of Çanakkale. Before he died, he had a will: Don't tell me, Sergeant Ali, you'll bury him somewhere else. Don't take me away from you. We have the honor of becoming descendants of a nation that has succeeded in becoming one. Here, we must be one with the responsibility we take from our martyrs, and we must be able to move on with our lives. When we are one, there's no doubt that when we become one, a nation where even the greatest forces of the world can't stand before you, it will bring us to its rightful place in the world. As Mehmet Akif said: Isn't faith one in the heart of our front; Joy one, pain one, purpose the same, conscience one. Isn't he the one who runs to war, of Circeşahin, of Lazil, of Turkey; The Arab and the Kurd are still alive today. Isn't it the heart of the heart that beats the heart? If Jahan were to fall, I assure you, this front would not be moved. ▪ The enemy was determined to win the war with both weapons and equipment and numerical superiority. His plans were perfect. A world gathered together, a super-tech navy, hundreds of ships, tens of thousands of soldiers came to vomit death, but there was one thing they couldn't calculate: a nation ready to die, a nation ready to die, with its family waiting for them, and a single verse in languages: For the sacrifice of the henna that burned my mother, I was born a sacrifice for the country, too. One last gift from my mother to God, Commander, I was born Ismail. Ismail is the place where the born die for the sake of the land, where they give blood to this nation, Çanakkale. It is the place where one nation has become one nation, lying in sheep's sheep in the same grave, sacrificing for the sake of the flag, for the nation, without thinking, for the sake of the nation, for the rebirth of a country, and that Çanakkale spirit is the one that our people now need the most. The day will lead us not only to wars, but to the rebirth of a society, with our history, respect for our martyrs, and their trust of saints. As our Prime Minister said at the March 18th ceremony, he who does not understand and understands Çanakkale will not understand Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why we and our government have been paying tribute to our Çanakkale, our martyrdoms since the day we were in power. I hereby celebrate again the March 18th Day of Martyrs, and the 98th anniversary of the Canakkale Sea Victory, and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0003par0037	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan (PTT) who wants to talk about the negativity of the First League.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0004par0041	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. What I want to bring up today is actually a football tragedy. You know, in recent years, football has become a major economic sector, both in our country and outside, but one of the most important things that affects navigational pleasure and consequences in football is referees and non-field factors. Congressmans, unfortunately, referee errors have significantly influenced the quality and pleasure of our football in recent years. We are constantly discussing the faults of our three major teams in the Super League in television and newspapers, discussing them at night, discussing them during the day. However, other teams in the Super League do not even consider their going scores and their evaporating efforts. And, of course, there are referee disasters in the PTT First League, lawmakers. I don't think there's anyone left who hasn't had a heart attack two days ago. Again, lawmakers, there's a Boluspor fact that has been working for years, but has been beaten by rights in the PTT First League. Members of parliament, those who follow football closely know that Boluspor has been fighting in the First League for the past few seasons. It's a free football town, but its resources are limited, its population is scarce, there's no industry. But the faithful do all that they can to keep Boluspor and the city's only team alive. Boluspor's president and executives spend trillions of lira on their pockets. Our poor citizen in Bolu is leaving his home and his family's children behind, buying tickets and going to the Boluspor games. So, to put it simply, every Bolulu from 7 to 70 is making a great sacrifice for Boluspor. But unfortunately, some factors outside the field and the field have been coming forward for years, and someone is constantly stealing Boluspor's sweat. Remember, there was an Eskişehirspor-Boluspor final game five years ago. Remember how Mr. Kemal Unakitan's promise of election was reflected in the field. Four years ago, there was a match played in Bolu. Remember the decisions made by Kasympaşa as the Prime Minister's team. Let's just look at this season, dear MPs. The first thing I think about is the Rabbit's Linyitspor-Boluspor game, the Eaglespor-Boluspor game, the Rizespor-Boluspor game, the Konyaspor-Boluspor game, and finally the Kayseri Ercisspor-Boluspor game in Bolu. These games all have one thing in common, lawmakers. In all of these games, the referee's faults have always been against Boluspor. I don't even think they're wrong anymore. These mistakes always find Boluspor, Mr. Lawmakers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I want you to notice that as of today, I don't know if anyone knows the score situation in Bank Asia. First up is Kayseri Erciesspor, the Kayseri team, the city of Mr. President. Second place is Manisaspor, whose city is it? It's the city of Arinc. And third, there's the great coincidence, the Prime Minister's city, Rize. If this is how it works, if it's between the Prime Minister, the President and Mr. Arinc, then let's be clear about the non-field factors, let's not let the other teams sweat, let's not work at all. I call upon the conscience of sports public and the officials of the Turkish Football Federation: do you think today's ranking is a coincidence or not, are there other factors or not? I'm here to say, last but not least, eight weeks left in the season, Mr. Lawmakers. For years Boluspor has conquered the right, and no one has claimed Bolu. But know this, I will take care of Bolu (Bulu) here on the day I was elected MP. I told you that Bolu is the owner now. In that sense, I say to those who have so far wronged Boluspor, that it is no longer cheap to take away the rights of Boluspor. I hereby declare that I will not give you and the federation authorities the rights of Boluspor as long as I am the MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Finally, I'd like to make a call to the Federation authorities. Eight weeks to go. For years, Boluspor has beaten his rights. Don't think once, think twice, when you're appointing referees for these Boluspor games. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0005par0058	Thank you. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Kayseri MP Yusef Halaçoğlu, who wants to talk about the March 18th Memorial Day and the 98th anniversary of Çanakkale Deniz Victory.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0006par0062	Reverend President, members of lawmakers, when the 18th of March arrives, we feel differently. A little bitter, a little proud, a little sad, but with a lot of pride comes over us. Because there is an unforgettable note in history that mankind will look back on until the end of time and take a look at it and learn a lesson. In Çanakkale, we have a past that can be proud of what history has done, and will not blush at what it has done, nor will it blush at what it has done, as one of the rare nations on earth. Today, many documents that have been removed from the dusty shelves of history and laid out before mankind speak of unimaginable events in Çanakkale. Today, many books and articles are being written about them, trying to shed light on those days. I sincerely applaud everyone who strives in this regard, and I want to express my gratitude to them. And I don't think there's anything good about whether or not we're doing what's necessary for the rest of the job. The battle of Çanakkale is one of the world's greatest events in which bullets collide in a narrow space. The absence, the faith, the disbelief, the humility, and the vanity have brought ruin to his pride. There are many lessons that can be learned from Çanakkale when it is approached like this. Some of these may be: First of all, Çanakkale was seen and accepted by all the worlds that could not be fought by war. Those who have the most powerful weapons in the world have seen how they melt on the wall of faith and love of homeland. The British and French armies of that time proved to the whole world that even armies known as the Invincible Armada were edible. In almost every period of history, Britain has suffered the greatest destruction and loss of soldiers in its history, causing problems around the world, causing headaches, as if it were a boil. The First World War grew longer when Çanakkale couldn't get through. The Tsarial Russia, who joined the war on the side of the alliance states, hoping to get a share of its fallen Ottoman cake, was unable to overcome the internal turmoil it was involved in because it did not have the help of allied forces to reach it through Çanakkale. At the last outpost in the west, he feasted on the victory of the allied Islamic Turkish army, who watched his brothers struggle for life and death. The philosophers of history can learn many more results and lessons from this war. Members of the law, we, the descendants of the people who were martyrs in the Battle of Çanakkale, who made Çanakkale impenetrable, should know the historical, political, military and diplomatic aspects of this war, and consider the effects that have reached our present time. As a result of the wars on the Çanakkale front, one of the three houses in Asia Minor became a martyr, and one of the three women became a widow. Arıburnu, many of the university students who were killed in Conkbayirı are students at İstanbul University Medical School. The faculty failed to graduate in 1915 because its students were in military service. The victory of Çanakkale, especially to the younger generations, is a guarantee of our future, as we owe it to our ancestors and martyrs. As a matter of fact, the important leaders of the era of victory said: For example, Churcill, the Turks are like a fortress in the face of forces that force Çanakkale, the most advanced technique of their time. General Tawshend, there are no soldiers in Europe... I underline this expression. It can be compared to the Turks. It can be acknowledged that the Germans are very good in defence, but even in the trenches they are no match for the Turks. For example, I'd like to mention Gallipoli. If it weren't for the Turks, the continents that had suffered a great loss by our ship's fire would have been replaced immediately. However, the Turks remained in their positions during the entire battle. Our sainted martyrs, who willingly gave their lives for the Holy Land, changed the fate of a nation, our country, our sovereignty, their unwavering faith, their unwavering courage, wrote an unprecedented epic in the world. Those who refuse to say that the people who wrote this epic were Turks will have to answer for it in the peaceful apocalypse. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They won't be able to get away with it. On the 98th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, I once again remember the great leader Ataturk, and the martyrs of Çanakkale, and all the saints we have given to this day of martyrs, with respect and gratitude, and ask for the mercy of Almighty God.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0007par0073	Thank you. Mr. Aydın, you have a request.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0008par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. On the anniversary of the 18th March victory of Çanakkale, we, the AK PARTY group, ask all our martyrs for God's mercy, and we thank our martyrs. I'd like to summarize my feelings with the following lines of Mehmet Akif. If I wrap your wound in the evenings, I can't say I've done anything again. They are children of a great nation, members of a great nation, and more importantly, architects of a great nation. The martyrs of Çanakkale are the heroes who shaped our vision in 1915, ninety-eight years ago. The heroic struggle of the trenches on the backs of Çanakkale left behind an unwavering brotherhood and a united nation, as it left behind an unforgettable victory. As a nation with the spirit of Çanakkale, I repeat our promise that we, as brothers, will take sure steps towards the future, that we will raise our nation, that we will glorify our nation, that we will honor our beloved martyrs, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0009par0084	Thank you. If the members of the group have any demands, I will comply.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0010par0086	Yes, I do.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0011par0087	Sir, we took our word for it. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu has expressed our views on this matter.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0009par0088	Well, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0012par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I didn't want to do politics when I talked about our martyrs, about Çanakkale, about the spirit of Çanakkale. So I said in the name of our group, Mr. Ali Özgündün. But you didn't promise. Then I'll tell you this: our martyrs at Çanakkale have shielded their chests for this nation, for this land, but yesterday in Çanakkale, a trench was set up for Prime Minister's chest, which is the difference between the windows, a prime minister speaking through the window, guarding his chest, and also a Çanakkale administration that did not read the message of the main opposition party. That message has been read over the warning of our vice presidents and deputies. It's not enough just to tell the spirit of Çanakkale, what we've been through in Çanakkale, it's important to live in that spirit, and I think it's important to understand it, and I wish all our martyrs God's mercy.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0013par0096	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0014par0097	Mr. President, in order to rectify a situation, I'm going to have to file a report. The governor spoke in that camera area, the Commander spoke, the CHP's Mayor spoke, Mr. Prime Minister spoke, but of course I don't think it's right to make political polemics on such a meaningful day.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0013par0099	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz has asked for 435, 436, 488, 490, 537, 548, 608, 612, 762, 817, 876, 938, 941, 1015, 1049, 1129, 1130, 1406, 1421, 1421, 1521, 1521, 1590, 1540, 1842, 1842, 1842, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826, 1826. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With increasing industrial hunting, our fish have begun to hunt in their ovaries and places. Depending on this situation, the amount of fish in our seas is diminishing, causing smaller fish to be hunted and sold. The fact that fish do not have the opportunity to reproduce brings the extinction of their species. One of the reasons why the biodiversity in our seas can't be preserved is because hunting techniques are wrong and they're applied in restricted areas. The troll fishing used to hunt bottom fish causes damage to all sea fauna and fluorine found on the sea floor when applied in shallow waters (mercans, plants, and fish eggs etc.). With the net filled, the larger fish are also caught and the smaller fish are prevented from ovulating. The Law on Water Products 1380 forbids it to be implemented in our internal waters, in the Sea of Marmara, in the region of Istanbul and Çanakkale, to prevent the damage of the troll hunt, but the raids by NGOs and law enforcement units indicate that troll fishing is still being done in restricted areas such as the Sea of Marmara. According to claims by members of the Union President of Water Products Co-ops and Anti-Bag Commission, some who view this area as a gant gate have been hunted illegally in the Bosphorus of Istanbul to gain a high profit overnight. It is stated that due to the lack of follow-up fines, there is no deterrent, but the growth of the return and the gangisation. Finally, the fact that Romanian Water Products Co-op President Ahmet Aslan was shot in the eye as a result of his campaign against illegal hunting reveals the seriousness of the situation. It is important to prevent extreme and illegal hunting, to protect sustainable fishing and ecosystems. Therefore, I respectfully submit to the establishment of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, 104, and 105, in order to investigate the extent and effectiveness of illegal and overfishing in the Sea of Marmara and the activities of measures taken. 1) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 20) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] 29) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 32) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th, TBM Internal Charter 104, and 105, in order to investigate the causes and consequences of the problems caused by sub-cautral agriculture in our country, especially in Antalya. [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] 10) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 16) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] [[Gaziantep]] 23) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 24) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 25) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] Antalya is the capital of greenhousery in Turkey, with the production of 206,000 decarved vegetables and 4.120 decanter flowers. Fifty-two per cent of the six-fold production is held in Antalya, with 1.7 million tonnes of tomato production, and Turkey meets 16 per cent of its tomato production. 82 per cent of Turkey's glass greenhouse presence is in our province. Prior to 2002, the greenhouse growth rate of the greenhouse sector, which has a 10-year growth rate of 10 per cent, has dropped to 3 per cent year-on-year. In this fall, the price of goods has played a crucial role, despite occasional problems in exports and rising input prices, as well as the lack of adequate measures for food safety. The manufacturer is unable to repay his production and his hard work. There are about three times the difference between the state prices of vegetables and market prices. More than the manufacturer, it's that the manufacturer isn't organized to base on the structure that the middleman has earned. The Law on Manufacturing Units, issued in 2006, was not operational because it was not prepared for the Turkish agricultural structure. The 31 manufacturers' association in Antalya, which was established in the area of greenhousery, remained on paper. Units without the ability to provide cheap input to their partners and provide counselling services, however, without the ability to market their partners' products, have been nothing more than a means of showing off the AKP's power. Each year, the manufacturer gained less and only paid for its efforts, and in Antalya, it also affected its importers, importers, and marketers. Many companies in this area have been sunk or switched hands. Companies operating in the agricultural sector are trying to survive with bank loans. The continuation of this painting and the deepening of the economic crisis will lead to further bankruptcy in the future. 15 per cent of greenhouse products are subject to external sale, but it is very important to create domestic market prices. Due to the trace of pestitis, the return of exports has not been completely eliminated. That's because agricultural engineers can't get together with manufacturers at every stage of production. Free agricultural advice, which was tried to be placed by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, did not produce the desired results because the system was not established correctly. The development and expansion of free agricultural counselling has not been achieved, and the model has not been created, as it is planned to support the manufacturer alone. Prescripted sale of food protection products brought as a solution to the drug residue problem remained on paper. Instead of meeting the manufacturer with the right drug, it is imperative that this practice be reorganized according to Turkish conditions and manufacturer-engineer relations, which have been transformed into a mechanism for suppressing agricultural pharmaceutical dealerships. All drugs must be given up on prescriptions, and only on prescriptions for drugs that pose a threat to human and environmental health. A structure where manufacturers can work with agricultural engineers in order to use agricultural medicine in accordance with their method and technique. The way is that producers get together within cooperatives and manufacturers' organisations and give advice support to agricultural advisers through cooperatives and troops. External buyers and supermarket chains seek standard sustainability and product quality in supply. This requires the establishment of large-scale businesses in our country. The biggest obstacle is the lack of land. Investors can't find enough land. Organised greenhouse areas must be established and investors must be supported in the establishment of modern businesses. Credit support should be provided to repair the infrastructure deficits of small-scale businesses, and the producers should be able to invest in organised greenhouse areas. For reasons stated above, it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to investigate the causes and consequences of the problems caused by the "underline agriculture" and to determine the measures to be taken by our Grand Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 2007, we propose the establishment and establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Charter 98 and 105, in order to investigate the problems of seasonal workers, university-educated tea experts, and to determine the measures to be taken. As it is known, the purpose of tea expertise is to grow tea plants, to determine the age of tea in accordance with standards and instructions, to make tea leaves into tea to be processed, to be marketed, and to ensure the connection between producers and the institution. According to the purpose of the establishment's regulation, the title received by the graduates is now obsolete due to wrong practices. Because they can't be employed in any institution or organization via KPSS. Private sector tea factories have been sought for quality in tea, but they have never given graduates of Myo an opportunity to work. They are closed for the use of Law 5620, issued in 2007, and are employed for as short as four months in seasonal labour status. If the production and processing of tea agriculture in the Black Sea region continues, about 1,200-1 per year is the source of the income of 1 million people in the region. A large industry produced 300 tons of age tea and produced about 230 thousand tons of dry tea annually will be possible to invest in the future of tea in our country, which consumes about 250,000 tonnes of tea. 1) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 7) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 10) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 11) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Tekirdağ]] 23) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation, headed by Grand National Assembly of Turkey Vice-President Meril Akşener, is presented to the General Assembly's statements on the establishment of the Turkish Parliament's Foreign Relations of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and on the basis of the 6-block Article of the General Assembly of Turkey, to respond to the invitation of President Farid Muhametşin of the Russian Federation of Tataristan. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 19/3/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka and 25 lawmakers have suggested that the parliamentary survey proposal (730 rows no.1) given to the Turkish Parliament on 26/2/2013 for "researching the problems of pensioners" be presented before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and that its talks be read in the same day-to-day joint session of 19/3/2013. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Aylin Nazlıaka, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0015par0316	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion to investigate the problems of the pensioners in our country, to investigate these problems, to produce permanent and effective solutions. I salute the High Council. After many years of working, serving, retired citizens are both contributing to the country's economy and at the same time creating value in their efforts. See, in developed countries, pensioners are people who go where they can't go, who perform their hobbies that they can't, who buy gifts for their grandchildren. In our country, we have citizens who have to deal with the first thought of poverty and deprivation. In our country, our pensioners, unfortunately, have spent a great deal of their lives under the strain of living, and they are still starting a second struggle because of their increasing income and fallen wages. That's why 38 percent of the pensioners in our country, I repeat, are back in business after 38 percent of the pensioners in our country retire. But what are you doing to this 38 percent? And by cutting the SGDP bonus, by cutting the support bonus, by cutting a 15% cut, you're punishing our pensioners who are already working, and you're putting up a mortgage on their wages, which they're already living on. See, as of October 2012, there are about 10,700,000 pensioners in our country: 2.5 million BUG-KUR pensioners, 6 million SEC pensioners, 1.8 million retired pensioners. As of December 2012, the minimum monthly pension of the SEC pensioner is 852 TL, and its maximum monthly salary is 1,417 TL. BÜG-KÜR 6/3 is a pensioner of 797 TL and a pensioner of 24/7 is $1,867. The pensioner's pension has a minimum of $1,075 and a maximum of $4,781. I'd like to share with you one more important detail. For example, when a citizen who is retired from the pension box is paid to his spouse and children who are entitled to the right, if the salary is tied to a single person, the salary is reduced from 1.075 TL to 860. If it is connected to more than one right-owner, it falls to 967 TL, and that amount is shared, divided. So, all numbers actually show us one fact: their pension condemns our people to poverty, poverty. There's a study done by the Union of Workers' Unions of Turkey. According to this, from January 2003, the hunger limit is 1,003 TL. The hunger limit, we call it, is the minimum number that a family of four has to earn, the minimum number that they need to spend, so that they can feed properly and properly. The poverty limit is $3,300. What we mean by poverty is all the other expenses, including food spending by a family of four, as well as health, education, transportation. Now, according to these figures, about 80 per cent of our pensioners -- close to 8 million -- live below the hunger line, and close to 90 per cent live below the poverty line. Gene, according to another survey, according to a study by the Association of Workers' Retirements of Turkey, are you happy with the life you have lived, asked 4,362 pensioners in 47 provinces? Look, 95.6 percent of our pensioners have answered no. Gene, they asked our pensioners and according to their research results, 72.2% of our pensioners cannot buy any daily newspaper. 88.8% of our pensioners can't buy any books. I mean, we're a nation that doesn't read at all. Let's not call it that, let's face it, the fact that our pensioners who make up an important part of our country don't have the power to buy books. Their low pensions, rising expenses, have caused pensioners to spend this period of their lives in distress. Those still living in working life ask themselves, "What will I be after I retire? See, the word for retirement in the West is: "The saved youth." In our country, retirement means almost death power. The pensioners are not only victims because of low salaries, but also because of cuts from those salaries, the victims are valued MPs. The pensioners met new cuts during the AKP administration. Look, let's remember what these blackouts were. Before, only the drug contribution was cut off, and now the medical and prescription money has been cut off. Not only that, of course, but with a new app, you've started taking drug prices from pensioners and taking drug prices from pensioners. Again, with the new app, the $3 prescription money -- if there's more than 3 drugs in the prescription, $1 per pen -- is paid by 8 to 12. Even though the court has cancelled the three-dollar payment from pensioners, you've given it a new form, and you've started to take these cuts again. When a retired citizen is ill, he has to pay at least 20 euros for road money, medical fees, contributions, prescription money. It's not called persecution, it's what, dear MPs, I ask you. You also passed the law of attitude, and you said, "We're going to compensate for the injustice, the wage difference between those who have retired from the new and the former. But, of course, the picture we've encountered here has also been a complete disappointment. There was justice in itself because the step system existed until 2008, but since 2008 the step system was removed, injustices were created again, and you did not include the BUG-KUR pensioner in your legislation. When looked at in the direction of the workers, a system that no one would lose their rights should have been created, but it was not done with the law that was passed, of course. The pension difference between pensioners can't be fixed, and you screwed it up. Look, we go everywhere, we're all over Turkey. I go to various villages in Ankara, and in the villages where I go, when I visit the coffees, do you have any complaints? When I ask, the first complaint comes from pensioners and then from farmers. The pensioners generally complain that, of course, they're having trouble making a living, but more importantly, they say their voices are not heard by you. They say they're outcasts, they're abandoned, they feel abandoned. For example, one of our pensioners said in a letter he wrote to me that we, the Republican People's Party, offer a lot of law proposals, a lot of research proposals, a lot of questions. These include a research proposal from me and two legal proposals, and our phones are actually locked, and we've received countless e-mails. There are some very valuable messages in these, but I'll share one because of the time limit. One of them says: "There's no need to explain our situation, you already know. Please continue to be sensitive about this, the people who need to hear our voice are talking about the deaf -- they can't hear us, maybe they can hear you. I hope my voice reaches you, dear MPs. Yes, we've requested a commission for a research motion today. I believe that those who will vote in favour of the establishment of this commission will be those who want to end poverty and deprivation in our country, and those who will vote against it will be those who want to rule poverty. Therefore, I leave you to the voice of your conscience. I hope that this motion for the investigation of the problems of our pensioners will be accepted by you, and I protect my good faith, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0016par0332	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0017par0335	Mr. Tarayya, can anyone speak against you? Is this something to talk about?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0018par0336	Are you against the pensioners?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0019par0337	Don't you have pensions in your family?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0020par0338	Mr. President, I have made a promise to the Republican People's Party Group against the motion to investigate the presidency. I salute you all. The research proposal, proposed by the Republican People's Party, is related to the pension system and the current status of our pensioners in this system. Most of our pensioners are primarily talking about the level of income below the poverty and hunger limit. I'd like to continue my remarks now by briefly explaining to you the changes in the retirement regime during our rule, but the issue, dear friends, is that the social security system, including the retirement regime, is a system with its own special legislation, its rules and its functioning in all developed countries. As with the research proposal, it is likely to be mistaken if it is understood only by reducing pensions to pensioners. In terms of social security, as in all matters, reforms, called social security reforms, have been considered from a holistic point of view during our rule. Social security reform is a process that includes extensive legislation that concerns not only the present and the past of our country, but also its futures. I'm going to try to tell you about the arrangements for our pensioners during this vast period. The main framework of reform studies is the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, adopted in 2006 and adopted in 2008 with all its provisions. With this law before -- in terms of what the state knows -- the retirement regime, the SEC, the BUG-KUR and the Retirement Chest, was formed under a single title. The new system adopted a general health insurance model covering all citizens instead of different insurance conditions for different legislation and began implementing the system today after a specified transition period. The process of social security reform has been completed through the method of negotiation, with the participation of NGOs and large populations from the preparation stage to the adoption of the law. The most critical part of the system brought by our opposition friends by Law 5510 is the regulations for the age of retirement. The age of retirement with the law is 65 years old for men and women. However, one thing needs to be understood. The social security system is a process that spans many years and needs to be prepared with broad projections. The change in this system to benefit certain segments in the purpose of the election will result in public damage, which will eventually be irreversible and affecting the entire state. What we're getting at is the best sign of this process. In the 1990s, arrangements for women to retire at the age of 38 and for men to retire at the age of 43 have become a system that has constantly opened the social security system and has lost the quality of sustainability. The reform in 2008 and the 65-year-old limit, especially to the age of retirement, were determined by very detailed calculations. In this scope, especially Turkey's social security system needs and international standards exist in this area. Once again, the 65-year-old limit in our power has been created not by populist rhetoric, but by the work of bureaucrats and technical experts in this area, there has been a limit. The main reason why I'm standing on this border is because similar expressions are also made for pensions. Friends, of course it's possible to give pensions an exponential increase, but with this being done, you also need to calculate the additional public loads. As you well know, every state has expenses and cash opportunities, and in a well-run financial system, you have to pay attention to these spending and cash opportunities. In this part of my speech, I'm going to tell you about the arrangements we made for pensioners from 2002 to today when we came to power. When we came to power in 2002, the system that we took over increased pensions according to the TÜFE rate of each previous year. One of his first acts was to raise our pensioners as soon as the 58th government began its mission in 2002. Under the budget possibilities of 2002, pensions have increased by up to 75 to 100 liras. And since it's expressed in the research motion, I'll say it again: since we've been in power, the rate of inflation has been increased over the rate of inflation for our pensioners who have been crushed under inflation. I'd like to tell you now about the official figures I received from the President of Social Security. Between 2002 and 2012, cumulatively, a SEC pension has increased by 245 per cent. The same ratio occurred at 382 per cent on the BUG-KUR pension and 188 per cent on the pension of a civil servant. So, what was the inflation rate during this period? The ratio was 145 per cent between 2002 and 12 per cent. In short, it's not true that pensioners are being crushed under the inflation rate because the numbers are also there. In addition to what I just said about the pensions of our pensions, many arrangements have been made to improve the service of our pensions rather than the pensions, and to improve the quality of our pensions' lives. In previous years, the institutional structure of the social security system, which provides a triple structure, has been merged under one roof. The President of Social Security, established by Law 5502, is now under a single roof of the activities carried out by three institutions. At this point, however, there should be no mistake, as there was a new structure created by the Social Security Agency in 2006. This institution was created by the collection of past savings from the SEC, BUG-KUR, which served and specializes in its fields in previous years. In terms of pensioners' rights, one indicator is the right to buy. If we're going to define salary as low or high, the key thing to keep in mind is to look at the acquisition power parity. Otherwise, it would be misleading to speak only in terms of pensions. Friends, through regulations made during our rule, our pensioners -- again, based on official sources -- have been better positioned than pensioners living in Bulgaria, Denmark, Latvia, Hungary, Estonia, Slovenia, Poland, Ireland, France and Greece. We all know the trouble our pensioners used to go through to get paid during their paydays. Due to the payment of wages only through the Agriculture Bank, there were long queues during paydays. The arrangements made during our rule made it possible for 22 banks and PTT branches to pay their pensions. I'd like to give you a more extreme example, my dear friends: a home pay application for pensioners who can't get paid has also been initiated by our side. Another regulation of our pensions is that the receipt is to be stopped, as well as the collection of bills. Those scenes weren't far behind, they were happening until ten years ago. As a result of our government's reforms, pensioners were also freed from the obligation to go door-to-door to find bills, and all pensioners were paid back by 4 per cent of their salary. Another problem that our pensioners, who have retired due to disability, have often experienced, has been resolved during our administration's time. In this period, they were also unable to benefit from health care. With the arrangement, this problem has been resolved. Again, regarding the examinations, as you know, the SEC pensioner went and couldn't be examined at the BUG-KUR hospital and stayed at the hospital door. Let's not get too far away, friends, these are images from seven or eight years ago that I've mentioned, and they've been eliminated by our power. Social security reform now provides health care for all pensioners regardless of where they retire. Again, in connection with these examinations, our pensioners have been given ease in their purchases as well. The difficulties and victims of our pensioners' drug purchases have been facilitated by making it possible for them to buy drugs from agreed free pharmacies. Guys, I'm trying to sum up the arrangements for our pensions outside of the salary. It's possible to tell you every single subject here for minutes, but because of the time limit, I'm going over it in general. During the time of our rule, we've also been compiling regular monthly payments to pensioners, with social security premiums that pensioners should pay. In this case, many of our pensioners have reconstructed their debt. Again, the government has paid payment for KEY payments, which were cut during the years of our pensioners and were not paid during other governments. Mr. President, my dear friends, as I've said, there are many other issues that we can address about our pensions, and there are a lot of regulations that we've done in the time of our power, but since it doesn't allow time, I've only informed your House about a limited portion of these arrangements. This is an investigation motion issued by the Republican People's Party Group, declaring that I am against you, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0021par0364	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı is a member of the Union.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0022par0367	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party to open a parliamentary investigation into the problems of our pensions and measures necessary to be taken. I salute you all. It is our greatest desire that our pensioners, who have spent the most productive and dynamic years of their lives serving their state, their nation, in the retirement period, live a healthy, peaceful, prosperous life. It's also a need for social government to provide the best living conditions for our pensioners, who serve our country's development with valuable services and sweat. It is a priority and constitutional duty of the social government to ensure the happiness of our pensioners who have prepared a hopeful future for us. Our pensioners, who shed light on the future with their wise personalities and experiences, provide peace and balance in our society, are a source of great power for our nation. The statement of Ataturk explains the importance of this subject better: ▪ The attitude of a nation towards elderly citizens and pensioners is the most important part of the nation's power to live. A nation who has no gratitude for those who have worked hard in the past has no right to look to the future with confidence. AKP governments have failed to raise pensioners to a level of human living. It is the AKP (AKP) who has aggravated pension conditions, raised pension age by 65 years, reduced the welfare share of pensions, envisioned the pensions of half the pensions today for services after 2008, and passed this law. Payments in the name of health care allowance for employees and pensioners, prescription money, box money, medicine, have now become the equivalent of an important portion of their monthly allowance. The government of the AKP, which owns a Labour Minister who calls a Finance Minister a Finance Minister, has no way of understanding the problems of pensioners and employees. The AKP government needs pensioners day in and day out. With today's pensions, pensioners are unable to make a living. According to the February 2013 results of the Turkish-History search for hunger and poverty, a family of four has to spend the amount of food to be healthy and balanced, enough to feed, so the hunger limit is 1,007 lira, along with food spending, costs of clothing, housing, transport, education, health and so on is $3,280. According to these data, all pensioners, widows and orphans are under the poverty line, and all near the age of starvation. How much pension does the farmer receive? 630 liras. How much pension does the tradesman receive? 830 liras. How much pension does the SEC pension take? On average, it's a thousand lira. Are those numbers to brag about, for God's sake? They're all below the age of starvation. I thought Turkey got rich. What happened to $10,000 per person? Always give your share to the allies, to the money dealers, to the loan sharks, to the contractors, to the staff, to the pensioner, to the shopkeeper, and to the farmer before they grow up. The AKP government has always given pensioners hope, but has constantly deceived and disappointed pensioners. The pensioners were told they were going to be given a bank promotion, but that promise was also in vain. Although the pensioner promised to compensate for the injustice of the pensioners, our pensioners were involved in a great deception under the name of the so-called "intibak" (intuitive). The adopted law did not include inequalities between SSC pensioners after 2000, retired BUG-KUR pensions, and pensions between the SEC and BUG-KUR pensions. Retired pensioners, who hope for an increase in pension due to all the promises and good news, are frustrated once again when they go to the bank to collect their salary, and understand how they were deceived by the AKP government. Although pensioners are said not to be crushed by inflation, it is evident that the situation is not as it is said when it is evaluated in terms of food, rent, transportation, water, electricity and gas, which reflect the true inflation of the people. In our country, wage policies have been used as the main tool for fighting inflation for years. This has weakened the power of employees and pensioners over time, and the most heavy burden of fighting inflation has been passed on to the working and retired population. The AKP prided itself on the increase of national income during its government period at every turn has caused a serious breakdown in the income distribution of its choice against employees and pensioners. If our citizens are getting rich, why can't we get rich? This is the truth that lies behind their frequent asking the question. The government, which works on wage policies and adopts a repressive and digestive form of governance over the pensioners, is very generous in creating billionaires. Turkey, which has increased even in crisis times, is among the countries where revenue distribution is at its most corrupt. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important goals of social security policies is to support the security networks between people and the fight against social inequality. In this sense, the state is obliged to set up a social security system that includes equal rights and obligations for all individuals. In our country, the right to social security is also subject to the Constitution and guarantees and is under the obligation of the state. In other words, the fact that they have earned the right to retire has also victimised many of our citizens, even though they have completed the number of days and the amount of insurance they need for retirement, according to the legislation that was in effect on the day they started. Citizens of the age in retirement, whose rights have been taken from them, are seeking their rights, awaiting a solution from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, asking for an arrangement that will ensure the removal of their victims. As this is not a pension for our citizens, they are faced with paying health insurance premiums. It's unfair to say that you can't take advantage of health care if you don't give health insurance premiums to citizens who have filled the number of days of paying the premiums that have been required for years. Citizens in this situation should be granted pension without waiting for the age requirement because it is their rights earned. Although the National Movement Party has earned its pension rights, pensioners must be granted pension rights for retirement, it has submitted legal proposals and motions to address the victim. Dear lawmakers, another part of us is waiting with hope is our police. Today, when law enforcement personnel retire, their pension is half of their pension. Mr. Prime Minister, it has not been fulfilled for six years, although police have promised to improve their autonomy rights before the 2007 elections. Our police's additional indicators must be raised and the first level must be given 3600 additional indicators. In order for retired police to make a comfortable living, there must be a slight increase in pensions. I took a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's proposal. I hope it's accepted. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0023par0381	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0024par0384	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The agenda is set with the jointly signed Council of Counsellors. Therefore, I declare that we are against the Republican People's Party group proposal. On the other hand, one of the first jobs the AK PARTY governments have done since the November 3rd 2002 elections has been improvements in the pensioners' pensions of SEC pensioners and BUG-KUR pensioners. After that, problems between SEC pensioners and injustice in the attitude have been balanced by the law we adopted in this General Assembly. When we compared 2002 to 2013, inflation was observed that pensioners were not oppressed and the level of prosperity increased, and the share of prosperity increased. Of course, if the amount given is sufficient or inadequate, it must be left to the discretion of pensioners. But I especially want to say that as our economy gets better and better, as the wealth level increases, so do pensioners. Again, pensioners' revenues have been seen to be growing in real terms, given the fact that pensions have increased in revenues, increased in income, and increased in inflation rates. This means that if the national economy is improving, if the revenues in the budget are increasing, our citizens are taking advantage of it. In this sense, pensioners have not seen any loss; on the contrary, the situation of pensioners has improved since 2002 and 2013. The agenda of the House will be set, determined. Therefore, the Republican People's Party's group proposal is to extend the agenda, not well-intentioned. However, I present the Republican People's Party's group proposal to the General Assembly's discretion and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0025par0391	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at Tuesday's meeting of the Council of Counsellors 19/3/2013. Turkey's Deputy Chairman of the Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peace and Democracy Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The drafting of the laws, which are included in the article "The Bill of Laws and Proposals" and "The Other Actions From the Commissions" was taken into the ranks of 310, 107, 292, 357, 340, 185, 78, 149, 251, 58, and 140, in order of 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 · Global Voices Until the meeting of Tuesday, March 19, 2013 (today), until the meeting of the 297th Legislature, On Wednesday, March 20, 2013, until the completion of the 4th chapter talks of Bill 310 in the merger, On Thursday, March 21, 2013, until the completion of the talks of Bill 310, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. It has been suggested that daily programmes continue to work until the completion of daily programmes if they cannot be completed. Vocabulary? No. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Act 2/170 has not been discussed in the Commission in 45 days, I respectfully submit that it is necessary to take the matter directly into consideration under Article 37 of the Civil Code. 15.02.2012 On behalf of the bidder, Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0026par0425	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised a bill of law not to be taxed on inputs used in agricultural production, and I salute your honorable committee. Inflation in the ten-year period of the Justice and Development Party has increased by 145 per cent, agricultural inputs, diesel, medicine, fertilizer prices averagely four to five times, while product prices are almost in place. On the one hand, inflation, on the other hand, 4 to 5 times the increase in input prices, has been sunk in debt. In 2002, the bank debt of farmers, which amounted to $530m, reached $39 billion as of September 2012. Two billion of these loans are for execution. Farmers' debt has increased 78 times in ten years. Fertilizer and electricity include 18 per cent, 15.25 per cent in mazotta; 8 per cent VAT in agricultural medicine and animal oaths. With 1 percent VAT in the seedlings, 8 per cent VAT is available in vegetable seeds and vegetable plants. The cost of production is rising because the input prices are too high, so the Turkish farmer cannot compete with the producers of foreign countries. Now, mazota: A special consumption tax of $1.60 is taxed to add 55 cents from a diesel that costs $1.44. Along with other shares, a liter of diesel is sold for $4.25. Due to these high taxes, our country is the head of countries that use the world's most expensive diesel in agriculture. The price of a litre was 94 cents in March 2002, 1 lira in November, and today the price of diesel has increased by three times as much as $4.25 per gallon. The amount of diesel used by the Turkish farmer in a year amounts to 3,300,000 tonnes. Farmers' gas support can only cover 5 per cent of the price paid for the mazota used in agriculture. This number corresponds to only one-quarter of the VAT, which the farmer paid for the diesel. The EVT of the rural engine used by farmers was low according to the euro string. As a result of the removal of the rural engine from January 2011, the Turkish farmer was forced to pay an additional 250m Turkish lira and an additional OTV difference. While the diamond does not receive VAT, the ships and yachts are given UTV-free fuel, while the farmers use 37.61 per cent of ETV, 15.25 per cent VAT. In order to reduce production costs, the mazota used by our farmers is essential to the exception of OTV and VAT. As for fertilizer: Ammonium sulfate fertilizer weighed 162 liras in 2002 and reached $670 in 2013. CAN fertilizer increased from 176 liras to 725 liras. 33 percent ammonium nitrate fertilizer rose from $193 to $898. The urea rose from $237 to $1.115, from DAP 354 to $1.290. Fertilizer has 18% VAT. In 2011, when our farmers paid $4.77 billion for fertilizer, they received $620 million for fertilizer support, so 13 percent of the money the manufacturer paid for fertilizer was given as support. The high rise in fertilizer prices reduces the use of fertilizer, which has a negative effect on production. Agricultural drugs receive 8 per cent VAT. In addition, when you look at electricity, 1 percent of the energy fund, 2 per cent of the TRT share, and 18 per cent of the VAT are up to 30.3 cents per kilowatts per cent. The price of electricity increased by 124% between 2007-2012. In 2007, the manufacturer received electricity for 13.5 cents, and today it receives electricity for 30.3 cents. The same is true in seeds and animal oaths. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts, I look forward to your support of our offer, all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0027par0435	Thank you. Mustafa Kalaycı on behalf of a member of parliament, Konya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0028par0438	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our bill on the non-profit tax on agriculture, fertilizer, electricity, medicine, seeds, seedlings, and bait tax used in agriculture and livestock as the National Movement Party. I salute you all. What is the basic problem with our farmer? The answer when we say, "The price of input is expensive. " As a result of the wrong agricultural policy, the farmer can't even sell his product for cost, so whatever he produces, he's losing. The peasant and the farmer are having a hard time. The AKP government is corrupt instead of supporting farmers and peasants. It is a fact that the Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel and fertilizer and is overwhelmed by heavy input costs and therefore unable to produce. In 2002, urethra fertilizer was $237 per ton, and now it was $1.200 per gallon, and now it was $4.30 per pound. Excessive rise in input prices has made it impossible to produce policy based on imports. For ten years, we have sold wheat and beets for almost the same price, but the price of masoth, fertilizer, medicine, seed has increased four to fivefold, and we are no longer able to bear it. The government sells cheap diesel to sailors, yachts, and abroad for $1.5m at three times the price of the farmer. The farmer can't throw fertilizer in his field for lack of money, he can't put diesel in his tractor. He can't feed his breeding animals, he's desperate, he can't take 1 kilo of milk to feed them. The government has done everything it can to end livestock. Our farmer's loans also grow exponentially every year. Millions of our people, who work in agriculture, which is about a third of our country's total population, are literally clamped down by banks. Many farmers are depressed, having to sell their tractor, their field, to pay off their debts. As the problems in the agricultural sector are rapidly increasing, the AKP government is stubbornly insensitive. Our farmer and peasant are driven to poverty. Today, villages are empty and the villages have no manufacturers left. When people go to their village on vacation or to visit, they now buy milk, eggs, bread, meat, vegetables, and fruits. Another important problem for farmers is that changes and supports are often not paid on time. The farmer can't cut the value tax he pays, such as businesses, he can't get a tax refund, he pays more as a tax to the government than the government has given him. The farmer says: "Take away taxes from mazot, fertilizer, and no other support. " The farmer and the manufacturer must be allowed to buy their basic entries cheaply. The added value tax in diesel, fertilizer, electricity, medicine, seeds, seedlings, and bait must be removed. All food from bread to vegetables and fruits reaches our table as a result of our farmer's sweat. It must not be forgotten that the most recent states to remain on earth will be countries that are wrapped in agriculture with four hands, industrialized, improved and exporting agricultural products. As agriculture is supported in the world, it must be supported in the same way in our country, and it must be fed in its territory so that the farmer does not leave the village and the town. The agricultural sector has strategic importance in our country, as in the world, for reasons that the population meets the need for food materials, the agriculture-based industry builds a source of raw materials, provides employment for a significant number of people, and prevents external dependency. It is clear that the AKP government has no intention or will to take measures to solve the structural problems of agriculture, reduce the burden of agricultural input and resuscitate the agricultural sector. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit01spe0029par0445	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0029par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. (x) Verbal question motions are not read in the General Assembly and are added to the report. Members of parliament, I would like to call upon the Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz. To answer the verbal questions proposed by Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0030par0054	Mr. President, I'm here to answer the verbal question motions of our esteemed MPs at various times. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to respond to the question motion (6/70), the question motion of Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. In Ardahan, MP Ardahan has raised a question to the Ardahans about the dissolution of buildings in the Millet Garden. The Ardahan Millet Garden has been launched and has been significantly completed. With additional work, this beautiful place will be presented in a more qualified way to serve the Ardahans. Our second verbal question motion is Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/747) of the deputy of Kahramanmarash. The question is asked as a summary of what measures and measures we take for the calming of the economic crisis and for the calming of the citizen. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to point out that many countries in the global crisis have continued to grow with their stable policies while our country pays its bills to its citizens, no banks have failed, no public transfer of funds to any firm, our debt rates have not increased, and we are under no obligation to raise taxes to pay this debt. So, when you look at it, you see that Turkey has increased by 9.2 per cent in 2010; 8.5 per cent in 2011. Again, when we come from the top of the crisis to this day, you see over 4 million new jobs, jobs. All these figures show us that our country's fight against the crisis and its fight against poverty are successful. And we didn't take the fight against poverty in one dimension, precious MPs, we did that on three basic axes. First, macroeconomic stability. Without macroeconomic stability, without growth, without reducing inflation, there is no fighting poverty. Fortunately, Turkey has provided an average of 5 per cent growth in the last decade, increased its employment and solved the problem of inflation, which has been a heavy burden on poor people in the past, left it behind, reduced it to single digits. Besides macropolitics, our sectoral and regional policies are also very important in fighting poverty. From our COBI policies to our regional development policies, we have again faced poverty with reforms that we have implemented in education, health, different fields. Also, on the third level, we have put forth a great deal of effort on social aid and support that target poverty directly outside of macro and sectoral, regional policies. Around here, our success is reflected in the numbers. In 2002, our population, which is under $4.30 per cent of our daily income, is about 30 per cent of our population, while today it has dropped to 2.8 per cent. In writing, there was actually a much more detailed answer to that question. And that's how I sums it up with some additions. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash has a question (6/749). Again, a detailed reply had been given in advance. The question is also asked about our work on poverty. And here, as I've just stated, I'd like to add that some very important work has been done. The work we do against the disabled, against the disabled, against the sectoral, regional policies, against the elderly, and the work against the elderly population is also important. Our disability pensions have been literally increased by 458 percent over the past ten years. Again, a real 86 per cent increase has been made in senior months. Our direct benefits and support have also grown to a very important extent at this time. In 2002, only 0.5 percent of our direct social support and benefits had a domestic rate. By the time we get to the 2010s, it's up by 1.2 percent, so it's increased by more than twice as much, and I'm talking about the rate increase. If you think that our domestic product has increased by more than three times the amount in the same process, you appreciate how much volume has reached. Again, a much more detailed answer in writing has been presented to our Parliament to be delivered to our congressman. That's how I present it. The question motion of Mr. Reshat True (6/1291): This is related to some statistical information on bank branches. Here, when we look at it, there are 48 banks in our country as of the date mentioned in the question, and we see that they serve with 10,440 branches. As of 2011, this data. That's how we answer that question. Again, the same MP, Mr. Reshat Tepul, the Tokat MP (6/1293) has some statistical requests for how many foreign-based banks have been operating and related to this. And here, as of December 2011, the current domestic-foreign classification of the Banking Organization and Control Agency database shows the number of branches of domestic branches of banks and banks operating in the ownership group in our country, with 25 banks operating with 8.028 branches of public and domestic ownership. As of the same date, there are 23 banks in foreign ownership, and with 2,412 branches, these banks are still operating. Another oral question motion by Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu, our heroic MP, (6/2407): Another written answer has been sent to the esteemed MP. The issue of expensive fuel use is being brought up, and again, the service vehicles ask about VAT. When you look at these things, of course, we all know that there's a high tax rate in fuel prices, but when we compare it with the past, we see that the tax content has dropped a little bit. It says: The tax burden of 100 Turkish liras was 70/12/2002 for 70.3 euros, while the tax load was 62.7 on 24/11/2012; within the price of a 100 TL engine dropped from 65.1 euros on 1/1/2005 to 52.7 TL (as of 24/11/2012). On the other hand, there is no work on our agenda to reduce the value tax rate in domestic public transport services. All these issues have been delivered in writing as well. Again, I'd like to answer Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/869)'s question motion. Here, the Prime Minister's motion to question is asked about a subject that falls into the Ministry of Finance's mandate and jurisdiction. According to our relevant ministry, the 1/7/2003 Council of Ministers' decision-making Article 2003/5868 has been reduced to a special cost of consumption on ships, commercial yachts, services and fishing vessels, and on the record of the ship's jurnaline, which will use this fuel, and on the record of the Turkish international ship's registration and national ship's registration. However, tax burdens, monitored economic programmes, budget goals and their fulfillment are being tried to reduce, and social benefits are at the top. In addition, there is the possibility that the legislation or rate changes in the work on reducing tax loads will not be able to achieve the expected social benefit, the risk of negative results in other tax practices, and the possibility of providing the intended social benefits through other means. This framework currently does not include any work by the Ministry of Finance on the delivery of fuel without special consumption tax to a tradesman and artist who are registered in the Chamber of Business and Artists. Again, how are you going to increase the consumption of milk in Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's main proposal (6/1832)? What are you going to do about the price of bait? There's a question we can sum up. There are numerous studies in the co-ordination of our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. In particular, I'd like to point out that we care deeply about milk consumption. Work is being carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, along with the relevant ministries and civil society organisations, producers and other partners in the sector, and contributes to the work being done. The School Milk Programme, which aims to contribute to their balanced diet by providing milk consumption and healthy diets for primary-school students, was implemented throughout Turkey in 2012. A total of 1,36,309,261 200 milliliters of long-lived box milk was distributed to 32,574 schools across Turkey, including the school Milk Programme and the 5th grade class of primary school. In 2012-2013, 30.752 schools and 6 million 171, 692 students were put into practice by planning to distribute 296,241,216 200 milliliters of UHT milk cartons. Also, various events, such as May 21st, Milk Day, are held. It is also supported by dairy powder. In 2009, milk powder support began to be provided to ensure the regulatory and sustainable production of the milk market, and a total of 77,224 tonnes of milk powder was supported by 174 million 003,641 euros during 2009-2012. Many other studies have been carried out on the bait as well. I would especially like to express animal support in this area. In 2012, animal support increased by 25.5 times more than 2002. In 2002, only 83 million liras were paid for animalism, while in 2012 the figure increased to $2.2 billion Turkish dollars, and in 2013, it was budgeted as $2.5 billion -- 2.5 quadrillion -- in support of livestock. The production of bait plants, an important entry in the livestock industry, has also been supported. As part of the feed plant support, $35.6m was paid for 215,000 hectares in 2002, while 293m Turkish liras were paid for 603,000 hectares in 2012. Between 2003-2012, a total of 2.8 billion Turkish liras were paid for the support of bait plants. In 2013, a total of 304 million Turkish liras were paid as of early March. In addition, crops such as corn, wheat, barley, oatmeal, rye, triticale, soy, and soy are given bonus benefits. As part of the difference payments, a total of 186 million Turkish liras were paid in 2002, while in 2013 it reached 2.4 billion euros. In addition, producers' demand for crude bait is collected by agricultural loan co-ops to meet the demands of the growers for crude bait and are imported for the appropriate price, including VAT, for 50 cents/kilograms to the manufacturers. In import, the difference is met by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Again, the oral question motion (6/2508) directed by Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu of Kahramanmarash has been asked about the reduction of VAT to 1 per cent in rice. As of this moment, there is no study involved. Tax rate changes are being made under consideration of budget targets and the fulfillment of the following economic programme. There is no study available by the Ministry of Finance to reduce the value-of-percent tax rate applied in rice deliveries to 11%. However, with economic and social conditions and budget targets, the demand could be reassessed later on. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash's oral question motion (6/2819) of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/2819) addresses agricultural foreign trade figures and questions are being directed in this scope. Dear President, valuable lawmakers, our agricultural products are monitored and evaluated by covering all products, including our foreign trade, basic agricultural products, as well as processed agricultural products, in the Customs Recipe Statistical Position of Cetveli, between chapters 1 and 24. In this scope, agricultural products are seen to be constantly overpaying our foreign trade from 2002-2012 and contributing to the current balance of transactions. Imports of agricultural products, from 1 to 24 chapters of Customs Introduction Recipe, have been reduced by 2.08 per cent in 2012 to 10.73 billion dollars, while exports have increased by 5.78 per cent to $15.26 billion. In this framework, the foreign trade surplus in our country, which is a net exporter of agricultural products, rose from $3.46 billion to $4.52 billion in 2012, up by 30 per cent. A significant amount of support continues by our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to ensure that some of our imports can be met with production. Also, in our Entrance Supply Strategy, 2023 in our Turkish Export Strategy, these issues are being discussed in detail and targets are being set up. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash has proposed questions regarding the textile sector. In particular, it is considered how to increase competitiveness, whether cheap energy can be provided or not. When looked at in this scope, energy KİSCE (OSCE) for determining the price of electricity has moved to cost-based pricing mechanisms, as of 1/7/2008, with the Supreme Planning Board Resolution 2008/T-5, dated 14/02/2008. According to this decision, changes in cost and exchange rates are reflected in prices and sales prices are determined and implemented according to this decision. Energy prices, as noted above, are mainly affected by world prices because it is an imported entry. We import energy from the world as currency, not in the position to set the price, we have to import it from whatever the price is in the world. However, as much as possible, energy prices are being tried not to increase, which contributes to our industry's competitiveness. The Textile, Ready Clothes, Skin and Skin Products Strategy was implemented between 2008-2010, with the contributions of the public and private sector to co-ordinating the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology for boosting the competitiveness of the textile sector and solving its problems. A significant part of the 28 measures developed within this strategy have been implemented, and the remaining measures have made significant progress. However, the Turkish Industrial Strategy Document (2011-2014) was approved by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology (December 7, 2010) and by the Supreme Planning Board's Decision 2010/38. In this general framework, the Ministry of Economics supports the development of branding in all areas, especially in the traditional sectors, such as textiles, ready clothing, leather, such as the development of high-intensity products. In addition, the Council of Ministers 2009/15355 and the Turkish Council of Design Advisory Council were established and began their work to determine design strategies and policies, to create high-profit designs, to make Turkish designs preferable internationally. In addition, various supports are provided by KOSGEB for the sector, particularly the incentives for the fair. Again, foreign brand and promotional activities, market research and access to the market support, support for the development of international competitiveness, are among the benefits provided to our companies operating in the sector. In particular, I would like to stress that we have recently been preparing a new environment for our business in textile, which has been busy with the encouragement of the 6th district. Instead of going to other geographys of the world with cheap labour, our companies will be able to keep jobs and production in the country by going to what we call these 6th districts. Our latest incentive system is particularly important for the textiles, the confectionary sector. We also protect our sector with protection measures and trade policy tools, such as antidamping. We're developing various countermeasures against Damping imports. In addition, in addition to these measures, a comprehensive arrangement in the sector was implemented in 2011 as an additional tax application. Between 11 per cent and 20 per cent for textile products facing other countries, including countries with which we have a free trade agreement in the European Union, additional customs tax for some confectionary products has been brought at 17 per cent to 30 per cent. This has been a very effective measure for our country's textile and fusion sector to gain a new momentum and increase its employment.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0031par0081	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Members of parliament, Mr. Natalia Intotero and Romanian Senate Foreign Committee Secretary Ben Oni Ardelean, who are visiting our country as invited by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under the International Change and Dialogue Project, have now arrived at the Assembly. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0032par0135	And I welcome our guests, and I continue with my answers. The sector is expected to benefit more from research development supports that are taxed by the Finance Ministry, which are being applied by both TÜBITAK as a grant. The question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1704) is in fact the same sector. It's a question of how to reduce input costs in textiles and ready clothing. The previous question is actually largely answered. I don't want to waste any more of your time repeating a similar response. As a matter of fact, we support our textile and ready-made clothing sector within the framework of specific strategies on this issue, within the framework of sectoral and general industrial strategy. We are aware of the importance of this sector in terms of exports, in terms of regional development, in terms of employment. We provide all kinds of support to move our sector to higher levels of design, branding, added value production. The textile and fusion industry will continue to be an important sector of our country. Again, foreign firms have been asked to search our country for mines in the oral question motion of our same MP, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1838). It is also asked if drilling activities will be encouraged. When you look at the statistics held by the Ministry of Energy by the General Directorate of Mines, there are 208 foreign-owned companies currently registered. There are 1,212 licenses registered to these companies. Of these licenses, 742 is a business and 470 is in the process of searching. The main distribution of these licenses is 298 Marmara, 297 Central Anatolia, and 237 Aegean. It's really important what the valued MP is saying about drilling and incentives. There was a lack here, and with recent arrangements, this lack was met. Drill operations, of course, are specifically search-oriented activities. Find a mine, find a mine, that's not important, because when you look at it as an international definition, when you do a search operation, you make an investment. We took mining, you know, as part of the 5th district in our final incentive decree. Mine searches and drillings in this area have been included in the incentives again recently. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash's 6/1371) question motion is asked about measures taken in particular concerning the Afşin-Elbistan A Termic Operator of Kahramanmarash. I'd like to pass on the information we received from our relevant Ministry: Elyfiltre rehabilitation from investments mentioned under the business term plans has been performed in some plants, while in some plants the tender process or production process continues. The Afşin-Elbistan A Termic Power Plant Baka Gas Sulfur Purification Facility is part of the 2013 investment programme. The Afşin-Elbistan A Termic Operator must be transferred to ERG-VERBUND Electric Productions and Trade Agency under the decisions of the Council of State Administration 6/11/2008 on 2007/2268-E and 2008/1877-K. The talks on the matter have been set up by the transfer board, and our Ministry is still in co-ordination and has not yet concluded. Therefore, from 2008 to today, the chimney gas treatment plant of the Afshin-Elbistan A Termic Plant has not been built by electrofiltres and a technological waste water treatment plant. The Afşin-Elbistan A thermal plant has been established and run by domestic waste-water facilities. In the oral request of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/2762) of our heromarash MP, Central Ceyhan-Menzelet II. The Welcome Watering Project is being asked, and information about it is requested. In response to this motion, I'd like to state that the Middle Ceyhan-Menzelet II. The total cost of construction under the Haile Project is 388 million Turkish liras for the construction of the first part of the Guided watering under construction. In 2012, 70 million Turkish liras were transferred to the job. In 2013, 50 million Turkish liras were earmarked and planned to end the project in 2008. The same MP, Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoglu (6/2767), is asked to water Ayvali. The project was completed in 2012. The production tender was held on 8/2/2013. The job was included in the 2012 Investment Programme at $24.3m worth of discovery at $3m in cash. In 2013, $5m of Turkish lira was earmarked for the construction of the Ayvalite Dam and its production period is four hundred and eighty days. The oral question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/2767) of our heroic MP Mesut Dedeoğlu is again requested for information on our project. In fact, I've just shared the information on that project, and I've already provided information about both projects. Again, the question of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1338) is asked about the issue of funding, facing Kahramanmarash County Special Administration. The main and main and procedures for the sum of the state's private administrations and municipalities -- as you know -- are organised by Law 5779 -- regarding the sum of the general budget tax revenue collection. Under Article 2 of the Law, the municipality and the municipality shall be given a share in the collection of general budget tax revenues. In addition, road projects and maintenance repair projects aimed at improving the quality and standards of village roads are conducted by the province's private administrations and/or Village Service Association as part of the CYODES Project. Also, the project-based, specific-based demands of our Kahramanmarash County Special Administration have been met so far, and these projects will then be evaluated within the scope of possibilities. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/2947), (6/2945), and (6/2944). They were given a written answer on March 14, 2013. These are particularly questions about seasonal workers. Now, I don't want to go into too much detail, and there's a written answer. The issues of our seasonal forest workers' rights are regulated under the relevant laws and are still being followed by our ministry of forest and waterworks. The details of these have always been in our written answers. Again, in the oral question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1230), the structure of the minimum wage registration commission is being raised and the question is being directed. In response to this question, according to Article 39 of the Employment Act, the minimum wage registration commission, the Department of Labor and Social Security Department's Labour Director or Assistant Director-General of Business Health and Security, the Deputy Director of Economic Statistics of Turkey's Statistical Institution, or Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, will select five different jobs from the branch of an employer who has the highest employers from the top employee agency, which has the most employees in it, or an officer in charge of the Ministry of Development. According to this, changing the structure of the minimum wage detection commission will be possible only with a change in the existing law. The oral question motion of Heromarash MP Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1231) raises the issue of more employment in the working life of young people, women and disabled people. In this regard, I would like to stress in particular that our government is following very strong policies. Our government has absorbed the idea of employment-oriented movement in the implementation of its economic policies. Important steps have been taken to reduce unemployment by increasing employment by the fact that the main way for individuals and families to obtain regular income is to have a job. Four separate labour packages have been announced in 2008, the first to reduce unemployment, join the labour force and increase employment, one of our country's most important problems. With these packages, various premium reductions and incentives have been brought in, the burdens on employment have been reduced, the amount of unemployment allowance has been increased, and the short labour allowance has been made to work. Special arrangements have been made for the employment of women and young people. In addition, there were various arrangements for employment by Law 6111, which was published in February 2001. These arrangements have allowed the Fund for Unemployment to be used for the purposes of improving employment and reducing the unemployment risk, increasing employment and implementing employment and providing job placement and counselling services within certain rates of the previous year's bonus revenues. In addition to December 31st, 2015, the insurance premium of each insurance holder was encouraged to have an employee's professional training certificate, as well as the employee's employment certificate, due to six months to fifty-four months from when they were hired. Operation Supporting Women's Employment has been put into practice in order to increase women's employment and reduce barriers that prevent them from joining the labour force. In particular, we have recently seen a significant increase in women's participation in the labour force, over 29 per cent, approaching 30 per cent. In the last year, especially when you look at employment, you see that almost half of them have female employment, so we see that the policies that we've followed in this regard are very serious. Work Against women's employment has been carried out in 2008, as part of a grant conducted in 2009-2012. In addition, our active labour force policies have led to a wide range of activities, primarily for disabled citizens, women and young people. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash MP (6/1232) also faces employment. Questions directed at the solution to the unemployment problem. I'd like to stress that we're approaching unemployment in a multidimensional way, that we're approaching growth plus employment-friendly growth. The recent global crisis has shown how successful Turkey's policies on employment have been. In the world, in Europe, in many countries, unemployment numbers have increased, while Turkey's performance has grown to very high levels, and everyone's performance has become envious. unemployment, which was around 14 per cent in 2009, is now down to single digits. As of last year, it's down to a single digit of 9.6. Turkey has reached its lowest unemployment in the last decade in this global crisis. Looking back, we've created over 4 million jobs in recent years. From the first quarter of 2009, when the crisis sank, over 4 million new jobs were created. This clearly reveals the success of our country's employment policies. Here, as I just said, growth is important. Of course, it's not possible to solve unemployment without stable, sustainable, high growth. But growth alone isn't enough. It's much more effective when you combine growth with other policies. In particular, the policy that enhances the employment flexibility of growth is critical. In this context, in recent years, we have seen İSKUR doing particularly serious work. IN THE past, İSKUR has been doing no such work in any way, but has been doing very busy activities lately. Just to express his activities in 2012: 215,399 workers organized labour-force training courses. Work programmes for the community benefit of 91,908 unemployed have been implemented. The training and training programmes were organised for 31,373 people. Again, entrepreneurial programmes were implemented by 24,475 unemployed people. In addition, each unemployed and employer who is registered in the 61st government programme will be a business and occupational adviser. We acted on the principle of the employer and were hired as of January 2013, and 3.746 occupational advisers are employed and employed. In the first quarter of 2013, the number is scheduled to be completed for 4,000. Here, along with our new staff, work and occupational advisers, women, disabled, young unemployed groups play an important role, as well as reaching out to citizens who are on welfare and entering the labour market as well as the protocol with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. In this context, 59,796 (9,796) of those guided from the aid points were directed to the vocational training activities of ISKUR, which are organised by the job seekers to increase employmentability, and over 23,000 welfare providers were placed in work by our institutions. Recently, we've also established a very strong link between our welfare policies and our employment policies. This bond will continue in the coming period. In 2012, 842,419 individual meetings were held. In 2013, at least 1 million individual meetings are scheduled. The oral question motion of Mr. Reshad Haklat (6/1357) of our slap MP (such as 6/1357) is related to the application of equal wages for equal work; the question is, can teachers and academics and other employees not be included in the coverage? Dear lawmakers, in accordance with the equal wage policy of the same service class, in order to eliminate the wage imbalance between employees in the same or similar staffs and ensure more effective and efficient implementation of public services in 2/11/2011 and in Article 666 issued in the 28103 reciprocal daily. On the other hand, a amendment has been made in the Constitution to determine the financial and social rights of public officials in a collective contract, and the harmonisation bill on the issue was adopted on 4/4/2012 at the Grand National Assembly General Assembly of Turkey. In this framework, the demands of public servants for their financial and social rights may be brought to the agenda during the collective contract process. These so-called demands are subject to evaluation in these processes. The oral question motion of Mr. Ali Sarıbaş (6/920) includes public buildings and the costs of rent here. As far as the information I've received from the Ministry of Finance in this regard, I can answer: Public institutions provide a service building with ways to rent, buy or make it available as a result of evaluation of the need, situation and resources. The first administrations usually have to rent. The 2012 budget earmarked some 207m euros for the 107 administration, including the central management budget. There are 66 private budgetary administrations and 7 regulatory and auditory institutions, 34 of which are general budgetary administrations, 44 of which are higher education institutions. The disbursement costs of the service buildings, regardless of whether the building is rented or not, are currently under no record of how much money has been paid for the interior of the buildings rented as a service building, as a group in a single code in the administration budget, regardless of whether the building is rented or not. The oral question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/1227) is related to social facilities and camps. Here's a question about a facility the Treasury Department has built. In this regard, there has been a study of the need period 2010-2016 to determine training programmes for the implementation of new functions adopted by Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, and it has been determined that the current education capacity of the Finance Ministry will not be sufficient for 400 people. In order to increase education capacity, Ankara has decided to build a new educational centre that can teach 2,250 people. This building is not a social facility, but is planned as a training center. The guesthouse is also envisioned for the needs of outsiders to come to education. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash has a verbal question motion (6/1225) on why the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is under rent and why he did not build his own building. In this regard, I can tell you that the work for the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism service building has been completed, and the construction work has been included in the 2012 investment programme and is in the tender phase. The construction of the building is expected to be completed in two years. I'd like to point out that we have a work in progress. The oral question motion of Mr. Reshat True (6/1122) of our slap MP is also about the amount of income he received from the project from the day he was founded. First, of course, I would like to point out that the TOSI is producing large amounts of housing without burden to the budget, and that in the name of regular urbanization in our country, in order to prevent slums, our people are making significant contributions to the survival of healthier structures, planned urbanization. FROM January 2003 to March 2013, TOKI started producing 567,310 dwellings at 81 counties, 800 districts, 2,575 construction sites. It means 22 cities with more than 100,000 populations. On the other hand, it is 483,494 of the dwellings produced, about 85 per cent of them are social housing. The question in the motion is very comprehensive, and it takes a very long verbal period of time to document information about all projects one by one. With this respect, it is considered that information can be more useful for projects specified by the individual. As it is known, the Public Housing Authority has implemented a revenue-sharing model, which has never been implemented on its own land, which has never been implemented on its own land value, and does not require public financing, in order to finance projects for poor, narrow and medium-income citizens who cannot have homes under the current market conditions. In this framework, the management share of the company will be around 11.7 billion Turkish dollars, from projects developed by the TOKI and TOKI share-in-house Real Estate Investment Partnership Company, which will be used as a revenue-sharing model for 83,816 dwellings. The total management share, which has been collected from this income so far, is around 7.6 billion Turkish liras. In fact, Mr. Ali Halaman, the Adana MP, was given a written answer to the oral question motion (6/1445) referred to by Mr. Ali Halaman, our Ministry of Economics. There is a motion concerning the free zones, especially the Adana Free Zone. In addition to the written answer, perhaps I can say that additional studies have been made recently to increase the efficiency rates for the use of free zones more effectively. To make the free zones more attractive to our Parliament's agenda soon, I hope, will come. This will make investments in these areas more attractive, especially in strategic sectors. When these are done, Adana may say that our ovaries and other free zones can attract the investor in a much more effective way. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğümün (6/2438) has asked about Ardahan Posof Alköy. Actually, that was written down, but a short answer, and I'd like to read it here, if I may. According to Law 5304, the cadastro studies were suspended in 2008 in Alköy district of Posof province. Under the suspension process, no charges have been filed against the cadastro court by our citizens, and only after that can be sued by the court of law. The question motion of Müğla MP Mehmet Erdogan (6/1766) is being asked about the state of the public buildings, particularly Datça Hall and the Teacher's House. The Minister of Interior of the period has been answered in writing. In this regard, it has been said that each institution will work on its own building, and the demand for the government's mansion will be assessed by the Ministry of Interior as to the possibilities. The oral question motion, directed by Manisa MP Hasan Ören (6/689) is related to companies operating in Chechnya and the problems that are happening here. 426 Turkish workers employed by a construction company operating in Chechnya have been troubled by the problem with Chechnya administrations by Azeri's owner, Siyavus Memetzade. In this framework, the Moscow Embassy Embassy Embassy Branch and the Moscow Embassy Trade Advisory officials took care of the problems of our workers and were allowed to return to the dorm as soon as possible. The designated evacuation operation was carried out by three aircraft chartered from Turkish Airlines in co-ordination of Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management -- AFAD (AFAD) -- and our citizens who were brought into the country on 15 December 2011 were sent to their home country with health checks and bus tickets. In addition, a significant part of the problems facing Turkish companies operating under projects carried out by the Chechnya government stems from the lack of experience abroad. In these matters, it is also made an effort to better information. On the other hand, it has been determined that a significant portion of our workers who were victimised in Chechnya and were evacuated during the AFAD co-ordinating of the country have been found to be citizens who have no contract in small companies, who have gone abroad as tourists and have been employed by the use of visa exemption granted to Russia. As to the matter, all of our ministries, institutions and institutions involved in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs General Directorate have been studied, and measures have been taken to ensure that such problems and such problems will never happen again. Dear lawmakers, I have completed the question motions expressed to our Prime Minister for the Prime Minister. Now, in the time I have left, about my own Ministry...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0033par0164	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. I've got a few deputies asking for a brief statement, and I'll give them my word. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0032par0166	I haven't finished yet, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0033par0167	I know, but the deadline is complete, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0032par0168	Okay.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0033par0169	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0034par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. In some areas, however, dwellings are very expensively delivered to citizens. In the districts of Erbaa and Niksar, the districts of Tokat Province and Niksar, the people who are building the same housing in the same way, the municipalities are supplying the housing and giving it to the citizens at a cheaper price. In this way, we want to say that the citizen also has some victims. In other words, Mr. Secretary, no. 5084. The Lu Enhancing Law ended on 31/12/2012. Because of the lack of a new law in this minor, businesses are also deeply victimised. So the new ones are taking advantage of the new Incentivisation Law, but the older ones are also unfairly competitive because they did not take advantage of it. We'd like to know your final opinion of this. Another issue: Many bank branches are opened each day in the cities of Anatolia. Most of the banks that have been opened...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0035par0175	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0034par0176	Mr. President, at least give me two minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0035par0177	But that's the Civil Code, Mr. Right, you have a brief request for an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0036par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions I've asked. The largest business group of our heromarash is textiles. Our Law No. 5084 ended on 31/12/2012. I offered a law at the point where this Law would be extended for three more years. However, I now understand that our government will make a new arrangement that will contribute to employment in those areas, in 49 provinces or in the developing provinces rather than extending 5084. I demand that this arrangement be made immediately because we had 107 thousand insured workers in Kahramanmarash, and our factories began to hire workers and staff. I can't just...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0037par0183	Thank you. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0038par0185	Mr. President, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, but before these answers... this is a battle against Çanakkale, which resulted in the victory of the Turkish nation. Mr. Prime Minister, this doesn't belong to an ethnic group. He's saying, "Hey, I'm protesting that first, that word. Two: In Adana, for ten years, when you were in power -- I ask you this question -- as a free zone, Ceyhan had given the Ill Special Administration to the Çuk Group for free. They said we're going to make it Rotterdam. Have they ever nailed nails? If they do, we'd be happy to hear it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0039par0189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, if you'd just like a brief statement, please respond to the attorney-in-chief.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0040par0191	Okay. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you. I can tell you from Mr. Right's comments about the TOKI (TİKİ) that there is no supply if there is no demand-based institution. If it's being requested, then it's a charm.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0041par0194	We have no doubt about that.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0040par0195	Besides, it's not always right to compare prices because it's about quality. Prices may be different, but there are also differences in quality. I think it's a good idea to look at things one at a time and judge them by them. The issue of employment incentive number 5084 was considered by both Mr. Right and Mr. Dedeoğlu. I can tell you this: 5084, as you know, in the past, was a law that was established in terms of investment incentives, and there was a certain amount of support for investors for a period of time. In fact, these ended in 2009, but considering the effects of the global crisis, our government extended it to the end of 2012, its term was completed by the end of 2012, but we all know that employment is very important. On the one hand, we're giving serious employment incentives to businesses that invest in new incentives, invest in new investments or expand investments, but on the other hand...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0041par0197	There's something there!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0040par0198	I'll be there, Mr. Right. So if you invest in our current incentive system right now, it already provides support, we need to put it aside. On the other hand, should we continue to support businesses for the protection of current employment, even though he does not invest? We think we should do that, too. It's important to reduce the loads on employment as much as possible, in terms of employment growth and in terms of registered employment. In this case... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...5084 is over, but with a new arrangement, we're still working to reduce the burdens on employment. When the need for regulation is needed, it will be given to our House's discretion.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0042par0203	Thank you. Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0043par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you know he needs a lot of hay this year. He can't sell his property, and the Meat and Fish Corporation can't sell to the Seventh and Eighth month; he can't sell to the Meat and Fish Association. So, do you plan to help a citizen of $300 a head? Because that area should be a disaster zone. Winter's taking a long time this year. If at least $300 per animal can be helped to make people breathe at least, our animal-based citizens will be able to breathe a sigh of relief. Also, the officer is being asked to vouch for him. Could you take this officer as collateral for the animals in the village, with earrings on their ears, with registration? It's very important. Also, there are cuts in loans for tractors and agricultural loans, and these cuts need to be returned. Please have the bank return these as well. He bought a tractor, they cut 700 lira, 800 lira...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0044par0210	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0045par0212	Mr. Ödün has directed questions about animalism. I've just said in my responses how important we've actually provided animal support. According to ten years ago, there was a 25 and a half increase in animal support.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0046par0213	There's a lot of famine this year, it's very heavy winter, so give me a hand this year.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0045par0214	There's an animal support from 80-odd million to around $2.5 billion today. However, last year, in 2012, I'm considering a bilateral problem. We have an increasing number of animals, which is a positive development, but as the number of animals increases, so does the need for food.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0046par0215	If the number of animals is increasing, why are you bringing in imported animals, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0045par0216	On the other hand, there have been difficulties with the production of bait due to the drought and climate conditions. So, we had a problem conjuncturally in 2012, but in turn, we had a variety of support from our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, which was designed to alleviate it. These supports will be maintained according to the development of the industry.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0047par0217	Thank you. So the question motions have been answered. Members of parliament, the unanswerable verbal question motions will remain on the agenda. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks on the International Protection Act and Human Rights Review Commission, European Union Compliance Commission and Interior Commission Reports, which are ranked third. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of the 4th-ranked Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of Science and Technology. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with 108 rows. Reşat Hakt, MP for the National Movement Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0048par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to the bill we're negotiating. I salute the High Council. Of course, when it comes to the Turkish world, it must have been a very important issue for our country. The Turkish world is the future of our country. The state of Kazakhstan is one of them. When the Turkish world gained independence in the 1990s, each person in our country was very excited in a very different way, and at the point of developing relations with the Turkish world, I wonder what we could do, and what we could do, it was a great desire and a desire. In this point, of course, the private sector, especially in the public sector of the Republic of Turkey, has tried to have a huge impact on the development of relations with the people of this region and on the introduction of this region to the world. In the Turkish world, of course, we are obliged to say that all states such as Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, all have been developed by increasing all kinds of relations, especially from the opening of embassies to the development of foreign affairs. So from the 90s, the Turkish world has become an external issue of the state of the Republic of Turkey. (x) 108 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Of course, at this stage, we have to say that something very important has been done. It is especially important that a TICA institution is established. True, we also see that TİKA (TİKA) is now moving in very different directions, outside of its original purpose. Despite its development of relations with the Turkish world -- Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan -- it has been established at the point of development of relations with both the Turkish world in Central Asia and other Far East countries, especially in other places that have not gained independence, unfortunately, in recent years, the AKP has changed its course, especially in time, and has been opened to Africa and especially other Far East countries. Although it has been opened, of course, it can be helped, but its main objective is to go to many countries in the Turkish world, particularly Kazakhstan, to develop relations between the people there and the Republic of Turkey, and to transmit information to those regions and bring information to those regions. At this point, we see that there are some very serious flaws. In the end, relations with the Turkish world must be developed in every way. You see, in the past period, the President of Kazakhstan -- in 2005 -- Nursultan Nazarbayev -- has raised a very important issue. During the Asian countries' security co-operation meetings, he specifically said: "There must be a Turkish union in the Turkish world as well as in the European Union. For the first time -- the idea of Turkish unity has been made very clear in the past, but it is said that -- at the point where a head of state is making a significant noise around the world, the establishment of the Turkish union and the development of the Turkish union, I think the speech of Nursultan Nazarbayev is a very important expression. We may not say that there have been much serious developments, improvements in that statute of limitations, but at least the fact that it has been said and that even though the European Union, especially the European Union, which our country is headed to the West, has been referred to as the European Union, there has been no entry from the European Union gate, and since the European Union has now made some decisions against the state of Turkey, the Turkish Union must once again be considered. However, it is interesting that until now, those remarks that Nursultan Nazarbayev had said about Turkish unity have only been defended by them, but they have not come back. True, the world now sees Central Asia in a different way. Central Asia is a region where energy sources are densely concentrated. The eyes of the whole world, especially the United States of America, have to be expressed how important it is when it is seen with the eyes of France and everyone around here, in the form of various investments, in a very serious sense. This means that as the state of the Republic of Turkey, relations with those regions need to be improved and relations with the Turkish world more. But what we see is that these relationships are of a very different size, as well as the development of relations with a European Union or African countries, is that relations with these regions have not been improved very much. My dear friends, of course we have serious investments in the Turkish world, especially Ahmet Yesevi University in Kazakhstan, and Manas University in Kyrgyzistan. These places need to be taken care of. So there are many investments and services that the Republic of Turkey has made in these areas, especially from Azerbaijan, in the Turkish world, and from the schools in Kyrgyzistan, Kazakhstan. See, there are now schools in Baku, Azerbaijan, in Baku, in the Turkish Republic of Turkey, that belong to the Ministry of National Education, but interestingly, when we visit and visit those schools, it also seems to be a serious problem in those schools. The physical position of schools is very inadequate, their labs are very inadequate, and we see that the number of students in schools is too large, and the students are almost nowhere to sit -- classes because it's too crowded -- but we see that they don't care. I'd like to call from here once again, especially not in the Turkish world of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, but in other places, we have various schools. Surely and surely the Ministry of National Education of the Republic of Turkey must reach those regions, those schools, and any means available to the state of the Republic of Turkey must be moved there. See, computers are distributed to schools in the state of the Republic of Turkey within Project 4+4. So why don't we distribute those computers to schools in Azerbaijan, at work, in Macedonia, in Kosovo, or the Ministry of National Education in Kazakhstan? So, there are also various schools in the Turkish World Research Foundation. They also study Turkish children in schools, which means that the children of the people who go there from the Republic of Turkey also study their own children in the region. So these computers can also be distributed to schools there. In this regard, there has been no progress in any way in the past period, even though we personally met with the former Minister of National Education. We expect that from the new Minister of National Education. So at least let them go and visit the schools in the Turkish world. How do the kids read there? What's the trouble there? The physical position there, what's the status of the labs? They must be followed personally by their replacements and taken care of by our children. What happens if you don't own it? A lot of things happen. Those schools are facing closure. Look, Turan Yazgan, well, he's recently passed away. Our teacher Turan Yazgan has schools in Kazakhstan, in Kyrgyztan, in Azerbaijan, where he himself has established his own power. Those schools must be taken care of. Those schools must not be closed with the death of Turan Yazgan. So I'd like to say that the Ministry of National Education should take care of both their own schools and take care of Ahmet Yesevi University in Kazakhstan, which we paid for, and also a Manas University in Kyrgyztan. I think there should be some work at least, as the new chapters are being opened there, as to what's being done there. We're familiar with our friends there, the employees there, and we're making special visits to those areas when we go, but I think that the visits from the state of the Republic of Turkey, especially the newly appointed Minister of National Education, will make a different sound. So it's being pushed towards the unclaimed location now. This impotence reveals not only the state of the Republic of Turkey, but also the failure of our children there. As a state, you must go and take care of those areas because those children are our children. As those children are the future of the Republic of Turkey, they are effective in the future of Kazakhstan in that region, they are effective in the future of Kyrgyzstan, they are effective in the future of Azerbaijan. Therefore, we believe it is right to reach Manas University, Ahmet Yesevi University, especially the National Ministry of Education in Azerbaijan, at the point where certain possibilities will be established in a very short period of time. Of course, among other things, a common alphabet issue in the Turkish world is still unresolved, common history books, joint literature books are still unresolved. Very serious steps must be taken at these points, Mr. Lawmakers. And in this way, there's been a lot of serious work done in the past, and they've all been noted at one point, and since there's not a lot going on afterwards, they've been waiting, but I'd like to say once again how much the common alphabet is needed, how important the common history books are, how important the collective literature books are. Of course, there are serious problems in the Turkish world. See, right now the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline is a very important line that reaches Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, especially the oil of Azerbaijan and its natural gasses have been delivered to Turkey. This line is a sign of independence in the Turkish world at some point, but it's essential that Kazakhstan oil participates. If those oil sources in the Kazakhstan Aktau region, natural gas sources, are removed from those areas and not transferred through these Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline, I'm afraid that within the next time period, the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline, which we call the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Pipeline, may even face closure. Many projects, particularly the Nabucco Project, are projects that will support the fundamental origin and independence of the Turkish world, which will be solid for centuries and will make it very powerful, so if you leave Aktau oil, Turkmenistan oil, to your own destiny in those areas, Russia will leave it in the hands of China, then you won't be doing the Turkic world any good. We're calling it Trans Caspian lines, see, Turkistan has very serious oil sources, natural gas sources, but the trans Caspian lines are still unusable. What happened? Turkistan has faced either the situation of selling oil and natural gas to China or Russia is taking it away from them. Thus, we will become an energy corridor. The state of the Republic of Turkey, unfortunately, began to be an energy corridor, to be pushed out of it, to be dragged out of the energy corridors. The Russians have made their natural gas lines in Central Asia especially in the form of trans Black Sea lines, not trans Caspian, a line that does not cross the borders of the state of our Republic of Turkey, Bulgaria. Which, unfortunately, is against our country, and we're almost in a position to accept it. Of course, these are not the only ones in the Turkish world, but, see, in the past tenses, the metrics that Stalin had done to the Ahiska Turks in particular, and with which he continued with the Crimean Turks. Currently, there are the Ahiska Turks in the Turkish world in Kazakhstan, also in Azerbaijan, also in Kyrgyzistan, and also in Fergana Valley. The common Turks, though, have reached a certain standard of living within the borders of Kazakhstan, in their own way, but in various parts of Russia, they face very serious challenges, particularly Krasnodar. It is imperative that all Turks - especially those in Kazakhstan - should be taken care of. In particular, the humble Turk wants to return to the Ahkelek region in Georgia. Even though we've brought this up for several times, unfortunately, at any point from the government, we haven't seen any serious steps taken at this point. In the past days, while the Crimean Tatars were returning to Crimean, the TİKA was taken from that region, and the houses were taken and given to the Crimean Tatars. Although there may not be a lot of them, there's about 3 or 4 grand of them that's been picked up, the house has been bought, at least that's made it attractive to get back to that area, and people, the Crimean Turks, they've been able to go back to their territory, their own homeland. But we unfortunately couldn't apply the same painting to the Ahiska Turks, and the Ahiska Turks are now living miserablely in various parts of the world -- through the National Society. Given the incidents in the Fergana Valley of Uzbekistan, they are in great straits, if you can imagine the heavy pressures of Vassilio, a Soviet governor in Krasnodar, on the Turks of Ahıska. Look, we also have to tell you that 5,000 families from the Krasnodar region moved to America when the Turks of Ahiska refused to accept the state of the Republic of Turkey. I mean, what did the Goody Turk do? So, he couldn't make it to Turkey, so the United States assessed the situation and took it to America after they didn't come to Turkey. But what did they do with it? Five thousand of those families who were supposed to go to the Ahiska area were distributed in various parts of the United States, distributed to almost every state in the form of a couple of families, and what happened? The common Turks have been put in a position of total loss, assimilation within integration. So once again, I say to the Turk of Ahýska, that the Turks of Ahýska are waiting to be helped, they want to come to their own homeland. Given that they are granted the right to dual citizenship and that they have agreed to move to other areas, and that they will move to that area, it becomes clear how important support is. That means that the Crimean Turks must be supported, as well as the Ahiska Turks must be looked after. Of course, the problem of Karabag is particularly recently at the top of the Turkish world's most important problems -- especially Kazakhstan. Sadly, the Turks have also lost in Karabakh, while the Armenians are still occupied by Karabakh. Several talks are being held, negotiations are being held in the Minsk group, or, unfortunately, there has been no progress. In Karabağ, there are seven human dramas in the cities of Azerbaijan around Karabağ. In that sense, it is imperative that the area be taken care of and the drama of the people in that area be remembered. Human rights are mentioned, especially in the United Nations, while human rights are being voiced around the world, why are the massacres in Azerbaijan's Karabakh, in seven of the towns around Karabağ, again in the city of Azerbaijan? The people who are now being sent from that region, including Azerbaijan, are also found in many parts of Central Asia, Kazakhstan, about a million people, the Turk of Azerbaijan -- unfortunately, without land, leaving their homes, their land, their land, they're struggling to live in various parts, in a miserable way. Here are the NGOs we call the civilized world. I wonder why they don't reach out to those areas, or why they're not human. Of course, the point is that when it's in Turk, unfortunately, we see that all human rights have stopped, and when one subject of the Turks comes to the agenda, it's all left on one side. We don't accept any of this. The Turkish Azerbaijan, especially the occupied lands of Azerbaijan, must be considered. Ministrys of the European Union and all political institutions, particularly the State of Turkey's State's Foreign Ministry, must and should not bring this matter up and forget it in the destruction of all NGOs around the world. Look, the perpetrators of the Hodja massacre are still not arrested, the perpetrators are not responsible. But interestingly, some of the people who did the Hodja massacre are the president of a state, the national defence minister of a state. I mean, the crime of humanity has been committed, but the account of that crime of humanity, unfortunately, has not been asked. Of course, we see the same painting in East Turkistan. Unfortunately, there are also serious attacks and assimilations against the Turks in the Sincan Uygur region of Turkey, where the Turks are now living. The smallest of these events are raised by the Chinese, and there are intense attacks on the Turks, and then the Turks are killed, and they're thrown into jail for no reason, and people are slaughtered. In fact, it's interesting that the Chinese are doing their nuclear trials, especially in the Sincan Uygur region, where the Turks live heavily. While they're doing nuclear trials in those areas, they're causing almost a number of permanent diseases to occur to future generations at some point. And we need to string them up violently. So if you're going to do nuclear trials, you're going to find Sincan Uygur District in the Turkish world or East Turkistan? In fact, when a family gives birth there, some restrictions have been imposed on it, especially on the Turks. Besides, there's a very important leader all over the world who defends the Turks' rights, Rabia Kadir Ma'am. I'm afraid it's interesting, Mrs. Rabia, that the people of East Turkistan all over the world are protecting their rights, but Turkey is not accepted into our community, which is a very wrong incident. We're calling the State Department authorities from here. There has been a huge international convention in Japan over the past months about the Turks of East Turkia. He himself supported the government of Japan and summoned all the leaders of East Turkistan, especially Ms. Rabia, to this region, and the problems of East Turkistan were expressed in this region. However, although Ma'am Rabia has entered all over the world, it's interesting that she can't just enter Turkey, which is the shame of Turkey, the shame of the Foreign Ministry. The Republic of Turkey must surely do something about it; it must look after the people of East Turk, it must look after the Turks of Azerbaijan, it must look after the Turks of Ahıska, it must look after the Turkish brothers of Kazakhstan, Ahmet Yesevi University, it must take care of Manas University in Kırgyzistan. Our people in Manas are struggling to live under very difficult circumstances. At least, when we get there, when we get there, I think we're going to have a lot of problems that are going to take a lot of distance between being seen and being solved. The Turkish world is the future of our country, the future of the Turkish nation. He says, let's take care of the Turkish nation, let's take care of the Turkish world, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0049par0275	Thank you. Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Öpün, I hope this is relevant. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0280	Don't worry about it. Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the Science, Technology Association Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kazakhstan. I salute you all. Dear friends, when we say Kazakhstan, we think of the Turkish Republics. Today, Turkey, which made it seem as if it had fallen to its knees at the door of the European Union to join the European Union, has, unfortunately, forgotten its Turkish Republics, taken its cooperation with the Turkish Republics to the 2nd, 3rd degree, and opened its hand to the European Union. Now, there's an MP here, Mr. Ahmet Arslan of the AK PARTY, and I thank him for doing the Kars-Tiflis Railway Project, and it's actually a big contribution. The Kars-Tiflis Railroad Project is still not over. When the Kars-Tiflis Railway Project is finished, Turkey will reach the Turkish Republics. I'm telling you right now in Turkey, there are 6 million tons of railway transport, and if Kars-Tiflis runs out of railways, it's going to weigh 26 million tons. Look, 20 million is going up. We have to pay attention to that. I also want to thank Mr. Inspired Aliyev, President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Why? Kars-Tiflis helped Georgia make the railroad, financially. Turkey had money, Turkey said it was OK, but banks in the outside world didn't accept guarantees of the money from the pipeline passing through Georgia. Azerbaijan President İllik Aliyev helped Georgia (300m) with $200 million first, then $100 million later, and this project is almost over. But when this project is over, that area will really change a lot. So Kars will change, Kars will improve; Erzurum will change, it will improve. So the Silk Road will go all the way to China, my friends. Now, Georgia has some problems with its feet. Of course, the old Soviet Union rail system has a broader line, and we have a narrower line. But I guess our way ends at the end of this year, and if it ends in 2013, we'll be opening in 2014. I thank all our elders in your presence, and they're very important because everyone has to appreciate what's been done. But our troubles are these: the first road from Ardahan is in the region; and the village of the Dodger is in the house of Madman, and the station of the Dodger is in the building. There has to be absolute logistical support at this Campus Station, logistical fields, and the antrepos need to be built. It's built in Kars Mezra village; it's our pride, and it's supposed to be built, but the first customs entrance has to be absolutely at the Ardahan border. Ardahan is a small province, a poor province, a small province, and a new province, which has many migrations to both Georgia and Armenia. Ardahan's development, in that sense, is in the first entry to Ardahan for development, Mr. Minister, absolutely necessary to establish logistical fields and antrepos related to customs -- which is very easy to open from Ardahan to the Black Sea -- because Ardahan is also a point that unites East Anatolia and the Black Sea. In this sense, going from Kars to the Black Sea is a long way from Erzurum to the Black Sea, but it will be much easier than Ardahan, because the road to Ardahan Ardanç is about to end, and hopefully when this road is finished, it will be a road connecting the Black Sea and East Anatolia. I also want to thank Mr. Burili Yıldırım in that sense. When we met with the Associations, the Ardahan Associations, the Chamber of Commerce, he promised me: "Don't worry, Ardahan, we will establish both logistical areas and antrepos at the border of the province. Let's hope the Minister will stand by his promise, and we will thank and applaud Mr. Secretary. Let me emphasize that right here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, now, this road leads to Kazakhstan as the Kars-Tiflis railway road to Silk Road. In science, we are already in business with Kazakhstan in technology. Kazakhstan is our sister state, Azerbaijan is our sister state, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, the whole region... but there is a community that was driven from that region in 1944, and there are Ahıska Turks who were exiled on November 14, 1944. I too am Ajska, who has never been persecuted by the Turks of Ahıska, but let everyone know that wherever the Turks go, they have never forgotten their language, their religion, their religion, their flag, their homeland, they will never forget, they will never forget, wherever they go, they will wave the flag of the Republic of Turkey, and they will be proud to be Turkish, and I'll tell you that. We, the Turks of Ahiska here, unfortunately, have done nothing as a state of the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was Prime Minister and President Abdullah Gul was Foreign Minister. I went to their side, and I said, "Sir, there are 15,000 people living in the Ahiska Turks, especially in Krasnodar, which is that we have people in Krasnodar, Russia, who are devastated, who are wandering around without an identity, who have migrated because of riots in the Fergana region. These people need to come to Turkey. They told me: "We will place them in Ahiska, not Turkey." But now, we can't put them in Ahıska, so they will build a dwelling in Ahıska, which is not built. I mean, why doesn't the TOKI build housing everywhere and build their own territory of the Ahiska Turks? This is a very important thing for us guys. So we went with Mr. Sadik, so, in 2005, I'm guessing that we made the Assembly of the Ahiska Turks, in Azerbaijan Baku, where the ground moved. So they say they put the nightingale in a golden cage, and they say it's my country. Now people want to come to a land that has a homeland. If you do not accept the Republic of Turkey, if not, but at least come to Ahiska, build a dwelling in Ahiska, and have infrastructure in Ahiska. Now, look, I'm gonna say one more thing. I'm begging you from here and from the Georgian authorities. We have Mr. Süleyman, President of the Country Society. Süleyman Bey was arrested in Georgia, and is now in prison. It is not the fault of Solomon, but it is the iniquity of the priest. In that sense, I'm speaking to fellow Georgian authorities, please release Süleyman Bey. Because Mr. Süleyman was a bridge between Georgia and Turkey, creating peace. And in that sense, it's very important to us, as sapians. In that sense, dear friends, the Kars-Tiflis railway, the Silk Road, the Azerbaijan, the Chinese, Turkey... Look, when this road starts, hopefully if it goes from 6 million to 26 million tons of transport there will be a terrible development on the railways in Turkey. We can't export to Kazakhstan today, we can't import. Why? The transport's too far. There's no seaway, it's coming down the road, the cost is going up the world. In this sense, the technology between Kazakhstan and Turkey must also develop in the best possible way. I'm also a member of the board of the Friendship Group of Kazakhstan. In Kazakhstan, hopefully, we'll make a convention of the Ajussi Turks. I'm inviting all lawmakers from here. Dear friends, Caucasus is very important to us. I was in Moscow last week in Russia. Believe me, the Russians love the Turks, and we love them very much. The development of that region, the development of that region, is somewhat in the hands of Turkey. I mean, if we're friends like Russia, friends and brothers, like any other country, and we have dialogue together, I mean, honestly, the European Union comes to our feet, the European Union begs us. What's the deal with the European Union? I'm against it, I'm being honest. The country entering the European Union is bankrupt. Greece is in the middle. Come, brother, we have our own brother country. Why aren't we in a good dialogue with them as a government? The late Turgut Ozal had made great progress, God rest his soul. Süleyman Demirel, with respect, was very concerned about the Turkish Republic. I'm calling the Prime Minister and the President here -- they're giving it to the President -- but it's not enough -- it's important for the Turkish Republic to care about the development, development of that region, because they look at us as brothers. In Turkey, who is in the position of a brother, let him be an absolute brother and serve those countries. Dear friends, when we get inside Turkey today, when we're in position, I'm going to use my nine minutes of my own time as well, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0051par0294	International contract...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0295	The international contract has livestock, agriculture; sir, Mr. Minister of Agriculture has a knight's badge from France. Now, dear friends, we don't throw mud at anyone, and we don't have anything to do with smearing anyone. This year, you know, it's been a little dry, and since there's no more grain or wheat to be planted, there's been an enormous shortage of hay. He's in such a position that Turkey is in need of straw. Now the hay is rotting in the two ships in Hopa, and the animals of men are dying in the barn, and we cannot bring the straw there. Look, I went to Erzurum, dear friends. I'm showing these receipts at Erzurum, and I'm going to give them to my member of the group -- the Erzurum Ili breeder's association of cattle breeders; do you know what they've done, Mr. Minister: in the 11th month, they've collected about 6 trillion people from citizens, 6 trillion, 1,400 people. What did they collect? He said he'd give you 10 tons of weed on 07/11/2012. Look, they got $4,900, and I'll give you something similar. Let me read another one here, for example. At 05/11/2012, I'll give them 9 tons of hay. They said they wanted $4,410, so they got $5,390. I don't want to mention the names of these citizens because the Minister of Agriculture is threatening them immediately, and they're getting a false statement from the notary. Now, the main thing here is that friends are our own citizens. He brought it in to buy hay, and he gave the money to a government institution, the breeder of cattle. Now, the Department of Agriculture doesn't own it, the government doesn't own it, the governor doesn't. The Erzurum MPs are here. Now, dear friends, aren't these our citizens? He called me today, and a friend called Recep, and we wrote an epic here in Erzurum, and we didn't hand Erzurum over to the enemy. We built the Republic. Is that our sin? They ripped us off. No one's taking care of him. He says, "No one's taking care of him." I'm asking you here: let the agricultural loans co-ops go, give credit to these citizens, give them money, or give them money. They're miserable; they've given money, they can't buy hay, so they're hungry. He can't sell his pet in there. Look, dear friends, let me tell you something else. Isn't meat expensive in Turkey now? So why is the meat expensive? So, is there meat in the warehouses of the Meat Fish Association? Yeah, the Meat Fish Association's stockpile is full of meat, bro. The Erzurum MPs are here. If Ankara is here, let Sincan take a look. In the 7th month, the 8th month. He says, "Why are you giving it to me, brother?" He takes his animal for a nap. He says, "Come to the seventh month. Why? Why?" He says, "It's full." Brother, are all the stores of Meat Fish Corporations full of meat? If it's full of meat, why don't you release this meat? When the meat is released... do you know why they don't drive? Imported goods sell meat, importers win, peasants lose. He doesn't care. I'm taking this off, so if there's anything else, or if there's any other logic, just tell me. Now, here, I'm asking you to do a survey of the Meat Fish Corporations. They don't sell meat. The property of the Fish Association is not being sold to sell imported animals brought from the outside by the Jordanian Hicazi, my brother. I can't...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0052par0301	That's not gonna happen. Wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0302	Yes, it is, Ahmet. Yes, it does. Look, call the Meat Fish Foundation. Call my brother Erzurum Meat Fish Foundation.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0052par0304	That's not how it works. That's wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0305	Look, let me tell you something else. I'll find out. If you'll excuse me. Wait a minute... I'll get it through the document.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0052par0307	You're saying it wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0308	In Erzurum, we have a female MP. What's his name?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0053par0309	Ahmad...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0311	Ma'am, Congresswoman, Miss Virtue. Look, our lady MP at Erzurum, Mrs. Fazilet, she's gone, she's gone, she's looked at the Meat and Fish Foundation, the warehouses are full. Do you know what he suggested to the Prime Minister? He said, Mr. Prime Minister, the tanks are full. We need to consume this meat -- because the citizen is going to come and sell it to the Meat and Fish Foundation -- and if you don't get what you need -- then we'll distribute it to the poor poor poor poor, just like we distribute coal. There's a computer print on it; come in, take it from there. They gave me his certificate, I'm talking to you with the document. If Miss Virtue is here, please, let her come and say it here. In that sense, friends... I mean, can you imagine, there's meat in Turkey, there's animals, it's in storage, they don't release it. Why don't you put it on the market, bro? Then drive.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0054par0314	That's not true.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0315	Wait... the free market, the economic market, it's competitive, isn't it, brother? Isn't that what we call the economy of the market? Put it on the market so the meat gets cheap. Now, they show it on TV; they feed them horse meat, they feed them pork. Dear friends, let me tell you, I must ask you that the Meat and Fish Association's stockpile is full. I called Sincan, myself, and the man says, "We'll only give the ninth month a turn." I called myself. Call it in, tell me. Can such cruelty be done? Look, my dear friends, I'm going to give these receipts to the deputy chief of the group here. He defrauded a citizen of the studry cattle growers' union, raised nearly six trillion dollars, no money, no hay, sir, no man. Now, let the state confiscate this, so that the agricultural loan co-ops don't victimize these citizens. Two: this year it went dry, no hay. Right now, winter is long, and that's true. Guys, I'm begging you right now, the government doesn't sink, and no one does. If the government pays $300 per animal per animal for the earpiece of that animal, that animal, that animal, that animal, that animal, that animal, that animal, that animal, that's not going to go down. I'm asking you, he's buying 20 planes and he's not sinking... so what? He helped the peasant. If 300 lira is helped per animal, right now, people will buy hay and weed and bring their animal into the spring. In the credit system, folks, no one's giving the villagers credit. Why don't you give it to me? Where will the officer get a guarantor? I mean, look, they want an officer, the officer can't find a guarantor. He just called me from the village of Birdjmaz: I've taken my property from the village and the village, and they won't accept it. Now, look, I'll tell you something else: when you're buying tractors or buying agricultural loans, they're cutting down on feed credits or something like that, they're getting agricultural bank. Why don't you pay for these cuts? When the man buys a tractor, 700 lira, 800 lira, or 500 liras, whatever, a cut is being cut, I beg of you, in this tight time of the peasant, let these coins be returned in the black winter time, my dear friends. I'm running out of time, but I'll tell you this: now, Mr. Secretary said: "He took the Saman, Ensar Öğüt made him eat it himself. There is no such thing." They went to that man's house, look, they went home...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0055par0322	You're advertising.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0323	If you'll excuse me. They went to his house, they put pressure on him -- I've got it on tape, I've shown it to him today -- and you'll say, "Ensar made him eat his advice." They took him away, they took the notary home. There's an argument going on in his house, and his mother's getting sick, and they're taking his mother to the Forest Hall, and they're taking paper from the notary, and you say: "Ensar Öğur fed pasta to the animals." Look, there he is trapped. I didn't go to that house, not that house, but the picture I showed here is in another house. Right now, everybody's eating pasta. Leave the pasta, he's eating potatoes here, potatoes, potatoes, precious friends.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0056par0325	Mashallah.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0326	Look, I'm going to show you where the AKP has brought Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0056par0327	Look how much wealth there is, even cows eat pasta!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0057par0328	Ensar Abi is calling from Van. He is looking for the farmer in Van.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0329	Now, dear friends, Meatfish, look, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0058par0330	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0331	Well, look, we went to the village with 15 people on the way to that man's house. AKP...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0059par0332	Look at this abundance, even cows eat pasta.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0333	Look, there are potatoes in Pacilin, which are glued to paper, to be fed to animals. The AKP put the state in this position.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0060par0334	What's with the potatoes?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0335	Yeah, he's eating potatoes. Yeah, you couldn't handle the hay. You couldn't bring straw and give it to people. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, dear friends, anyway, we need to be strong in agriculture and animalism.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0061par0339	Even cows eat pasta.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0050par0340	I believe that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0062par0342	Mr. Ensar, you can't put four pictures in order, you're talking!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit02spe0063par0343	Yes, thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 108. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Any other requests? No. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0064par0006	Mr. President, I want a personal word.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0063par0007	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0064par0009	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of myself on the Dair Legislature bill that the Agreement to Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is proper. My respects to all of you. Congressmans, of course, when negotiating very serious international agreements, there should actually be the Secretary of State who owns the issue. Because we have very serious questions. Now, according to a report in the newspaper today, Yemen and I have lifted the visa. I wonder why we picked it up. Is this based on a commercial purpose? Or did we remove this visa from Turkey to Syria, to help Al-Qaeda, members of Al-Qaeda's armed organization from Yemen come from here, to make it easier for them to cross from Turkey to Syria, to other countries? We want to know this first, but the government has to give us an honest answer because today, the Jordanian King has a statement to the press that he wants to establish a Muslim Brother-like power in Turkey. Here, along with Egypt -- the Muslim Brothers' power there -- he's already brought to Turkey -- he's already told us that since then, we will change the regime in Turkey. Now, the Minister of National Defense is here, and I ask him, why did you take the electronic systems of the General Staff, and why did you give them to MIT? And after you got them, in Turkey, in a team, especially in the June 12th elections... look, friends, before the June 12th elections, Recep Tayyip Erdogan left, met with Barzani, the Oslo talks were held, and PKK was given some concessions. We don't know what concessions you've made, but the PKK has ruled inaction by June 16th, so in 2011, until four days after the election. What does that mean? So here's the AKP, in Turkey, in Southeast. And that's how he succeeded. There's a lot going on right now. Now, we've entered a new election sath e-mail; you know, we're running next March. New negotiations are being made. I wonder, again, are these negotiations being made to ensure new election security in Turkey? Because we don't trust the people we're dealing with. I'm asking, but I want an answer to my question. It is said that the electronic systems in the hands of the General Staff were given to the MIT, and the intelligence provided under the command of a police officer at MİT (ICT) was not sent to the police stations at the time, so you know that in one day, an attack was launched on one of Haqkari's outposts from eight fronts, and 29 soldiers were then martyred. Now, there are significant casualties, especially from the fact that intelligence didn't make it to the police stations in time, there are casualties. We need someone to come out here and give us answers. In that sense, these are very important things, and there are some games being entered in the new Turkey, and we, as a parliamentary speaker, do not know as Parliament. Friends are facing even greater challenges than Turkey is supposed to be. So, today, the King of Jordan says that what Tayyyip Erdogan wants to build in Turkey is already a train for me. He says, "I'll take the train, and I'll get off when I get to the station where I reach my goal." So, tomorrow, he's trying to set up a regime like Mursi in Egypt, and that's pretty much what's going on. For that reason, the MPs, we swore before the great Turkish nation that we would obey the law, that we would be faithful to the Constitution, that we would be loyal to the great Turkish nation, but now I swear on my honor and honor in front of that great Turkish nation. And we said, "Well, you can't say that." He left right away, filed a 50-billion lawsuit against me. I mean, that's not gonna happen, guys. Every day it's run, and we're being sued for damages against us. As a politician, it's up to us to say what we need to be told by the powers that people have given us. Yesterday, we were in Çanakkale because of the victory of Canakkale on March 18th. Guys, it's a terrible thing to see. Now, AKP people have brought over continents from many parts of Turkey -- many of them students; they're being paid specifically, so they're being paid, they're being put on buses -- the victory of Çanakkale is protected from the Chanakkalans. The Çanakkales didn't enter the Canakkale Stadium. We went there, so we saw his friends ban Chanakkale in Çanakkale to celebrate the victory of Çanakkale. What is it? Once Erdogan went there, he got booed. So, what are they doing this time so there's no booing? They bring men by bus from various parts of Turkey. Friends, I mean, you can't fix your own image with these stuffed, loaded continents. What really matters here is getting in the heart of a citizen. Guys, one minute there's 5,000 cops. I was surprised to see the cars I saw there, so it's almost 2,000 official police cars, so here's the guard car that came in. Friends, I mean, you don't treat an occupied public like that. Is that a thing? So you're going out -- a great victory like the Chanakkale Victory, the honor of the Turkish nation, the honor of our nation, a history-making victory in the world -- where that victory is won, you're blocking its celebration from the people there. We have a minister named Fatma, who has prepared a pamphlet, and I read his precept, where he says: "The victory of Çanakkale has been won by high-value commanders." What commander? Mustafa Kemal is not talking about Ataturk, he has won the victory of Çanakkale. Oh, my God! People's rights are invincible, so human beings... what I want to know is the reason for this hostile, vindictive policy of yours against this Ataturk. So today, Ataturk is a great revolutionary who is changing the world. So he won the world's favor with his military genius, and with a modern, progressive, intellectual and scientific regime that he created in the state of the modern Republic of Turkey. Look, the other day when the king of Jordan came and went to the Memorial, he couldn't hold back his tears. It's all an expression of a fact. So, even though the leaders of the foreign countries have had such respect, gratitude, and gratitude for the founder of this state, a minister of the Republic of Turkey, a woman sitting in office, does not take the word "Ataturk" in her own writing, and there, the precious commanders have achieved this success, she says. My dear friends, really, the state of the Republic of Turkey, along with the AKP, have lost its own personality, its own essence. Armed forces were slandered in Turkey. Today, here, the Silivri indictment is on the table. I mean, where are we going, guys? There is no law in the country, no rights, no safety in the lives of the people; people are being dragged out of court for years without reason for the enjoyment of the AKP, Recep Erdogan. Well, we're doing parliamentary work here. What kind of parliamentary work is that, guys? I went to Amasya again that day. In Suluova district, a citizen came in -- we went to the animal market -- and Mr. Ramis Bey is here, Amasian MP -- says: "Mr. Congressman, I bought 1 animal here two years ago for 7,500 lira, now it's down to 1,500 lira. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, we've come to the point of ruining this country with all of its parts. That's what I wanted to say with that dignity. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0065par0027	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0066par0029	Mr. Speaker's speech is very unfair that we've ruined everything, that we've excluded Ataturk...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0065par0030	What did he say, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0066par0031	He's used a lot of statements, sir. I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0065par0032	Here, I promise you two minutes, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0066par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, what we're actually talking about, I think, has made an assessment of an international agreement on Kazakhstan. As usual, irrelevant, he comes in here like a parrot and repeats his usual memoir in the same way. Now, dear friends, on one hand, you will make all kinds of insults, and you will make all kinds of unjust accusations, and then there will be a lawsuit against me. It's actually the extent of the case, of course, of course, of course, of the court, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, the courts, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, the courts, of course, they don't rule, of compensation, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, you know, it, it's not very meaningful to you, but it's not to me, you know, you're already used to sue, and you've made yourself, and you've made that. You've made it your business to insult and swear here. That's all you've ever talked about. Yes, again, democracy is a tool, not a goal; the goal is the happiness and well-being of the people. That's the way it is in all literature. We've been doing politics for years, we're talking, we're saying that, but you're saying it all over again. We don't need boarded continents. All over Turkey, we have the power to gather as many crowds as we want, and there is such a leader. What you can't gather in Tandoğan, Mr. Prime Minister, collects again in North Africa. Let Turkey alone, it has the power to gather all around. And there's no need for the continents on that meaning. But if there are 2 million people coming to Çanakkale from other parts of the world, to have a heart window, to have a bridge of the heart, you should be proud of it too, let the people see it. Let him see his martyrdom and see how we've come to this day. How did we become a nation? You should see the martyrdom that lies with the Kurd, the Turk, the Laz, the Circikal, and the Arab. I don't think it's right for him to be involved in politics like this, I'm afraid. And I also want to say that you're done with this Ataturk trade. He is the hero of the Republic of Turkey, founder of the Republic of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we're all using the same reputable expressions, but please stop politics through Ataturk. Ataturk wouldn't have made you say it if he had lived.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0067par0047	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0068par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0067par0049	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0068par0050	I don't have to say anything more, I'll probably answer, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0069par0051	Mr. President, he said to me, "Papahana," and I said...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0070par0052	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0071par0053	What did he do, pick on you, Mr. Tütin? Here, I promise you two minutes, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0072par0057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Of course, it's everybody's right to sue, but if there was a trial, if there was justice, if there was a judge, we'd have told the judge what had to be done. Unfortunately, the judgment became your bat, but remember, one day it'll be cut and turned, and the account will turn, don't worry. So at midnight, when you were stuck, we all saw how you made up the law to save the Undersecretary of MIT until morning and how the President approved it before noon. As for Çanakkale, members of the law, Çanakkale is the resistance of this nation, Çanakkale is the essence of this nation, it is the soul, it is everything, it concerns all of us. I've been there many times before. That's right, Mr. Young, you're bringing in boarded continents. You're filling that stadium with boarded continents.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0073par0061	Bring yours.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0072par0062	There are no Çanakkales in that stadium, and you're lying about Çanakkale. White bearded grandfathers brought water to soldiers. What kind of head would that be? Why didn't the white bearded grandfathers carry it in the Balkan War, why didn't he carry it in the First World War, but in Çanakkale... there was Mustafa Kemal in Çanakkale. Enver Pasha was in the others; he was in the failed commander; there was faith in Çanakkale; there was spirit, there was wisdom, there was solidarity, there was unity, there was everything. You are now... (AK PARTIES) Ya, my mother's grandfather was killed in Çanakkale. We're not descendants of deserters, we're not descendants of deserters, we're not hiding in a henhouse, I'm sorry. Do not kill the Chanakkale spirit, do not touch the Chanakkale spirit, do not damage the souls of Çanakkale with the boarded continents. Thank you all. And don't forget about Ataturk.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0074par0066	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0075par0067	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0074par0068	One moment, Mr. Aydın, first we have Mr. Young. Yes, Mr. Young, what are you raising your hand for?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0076par0070	He goes out every day and says the same thing.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0074par0071	Every day you go out and say the same thing.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0076par0072	He said the same thing as the Bible.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0074par0073	Oh, he said it like a parrot. Here you go, sir. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0076par0077	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs understand what I'm saying here. Look, if you really have a heart, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's walk the streets of Çanakkale. No, you don't dare!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0077par0079	He walked the streets of Çanakkale, visited the houses, visited the sick.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0076par0080	Look, Mr. Recep Çanakkale says now from the stand, that the Turkish nation has won that victory, that there were friends, there were Damascusites in Çanakkale, there were Baghdad people, there were Yemenis, there were Yemenis. I went to the cemetery, there was no Damascus, there was no Yemeni. (AK PARTY desks, there are voices.) Maybe one at a time. It is this nation who has won the victory of Çanakkale, but it does not speak of this nation. So the whole point is, guys, we're telling the truth here, and because we're telling the truth, you're afraid of the truth, and you're not talking.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0078par0083	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0076par0084	So you're doing corruption, we're saying it here. You say: 'There is religion and there is the Hereafter.' And I said the other day: 'Give us a reckoning in this world, and we will question it differently in the next. Now, look, there's a great betrayal here against this nation. Friends, today you have transformed the state of the Republic of Turkey, there is no state. Look, yesterday in Çanakkale, the chief secretary of the main opposition party there, the vice president there, you're not in protocol, you're not reading the general president's message. After that, we told the governor, "Look, if you don't read this message, we'll leave this place. You're not reading the General Staff's message, is that possible? Isn't that the army that won the victory of Çanakkale? How can you hide the feelings of the army from the nation, and make people listen to some of the nonsense Erdogan has come out of the window and written in his own way? Is that a thing? And you are ever fearful of it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0078par0087	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0079par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0078par0089	But Mr. Aydın, how long will this go on?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0079par0090	Mr. President, without causing any trouble, sir...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0078par0091	What'd he pick on you for? Who teased you, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0079par0092	He said he was using ridiculous statements about our President of the Group.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0080par0093	There's no such thing as a president.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0078par0094	Mr. Aydın, come in. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0098	Yes, Mr. Kamer says that the Young One always speaks the truth, but our people didn't understand Kamer Young. I don't know, is the problem with Kamer Young or the public?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0082par0099	First take the word "Ataturk" back, Mr. Deputy President of the Group.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0100	Dear friends, if he does his duty as a judge, he is called. His judgment became the club of AK PARTI. It was said that the judgment did not become the stick of the EC PARTI. You know what? Judgement has stopped being CHP's bat.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0083par0102	No, Ahmet, it didn't. CHP has never appointed a judge.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0103	The problem is there, not CHP's bat. No one will have a front yard anymore, no one will have a backyard, no one will have an independent judgment, that's what we're trying to do.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0083par0104	Your age isn't up to it, he hasn't made any appointments, until now, but you're making appointments.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0105	You've brought occupied continents. Dear friends, we don't need boarded continents.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0084par0107	No, Mr. Ahmet, it didn't.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0108	But if only the Republican People's Party could go to Çanakkale with thousands and tens of thousands, if only he could see that spirit there and live that soul, then there wouldn't be those problems; I wish you were there, too, if only you could bring the tens of thousands there.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0085par0109	Why couldn't you live in Sarikamis, Ahmet?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0110	Come live with that spirit, and we'll all live together. Yes, there, led by Mustafa Kemal, led by our heroes, won a victory as a result of the nation's side-by-side struggle. Let's not see too much of that victory for the people.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0086par0112	Say that line again. The Prime Minister will take you, Ahmet Abi.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0081par0113	We shall not be held responsible in this world or in the Hereafter. We will settle our account in this world, and in the Hereafter we will settle our accounts. And we have no fear of anyone. He didn't mention the people. We already see those who express it from the talks here. How much they care about people, how much politics they're doing for the nation here, on this bench, we're all watching, we're all watching. Dear friends, put your hands on your conscience. I say we all live together in the House of Canakkale, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0087par0117	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0088par0119	He insulted our party by saying that his judgment was no longer the club of CHP.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0087par0120	Here you are, Mr. Slim, and I promise you in two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0088par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I can't expect much from a mindset that makes the Prime Minister's birth, the cities he's chosen, the mindset that makes the Prime Minister's salvation a blessing, the mindset to touch the prime minister. I can't expect much from a mindset that says, "Touch the prime minister." Look, I'll tell you this: The Prime Minister for the judgment, he himself became a state within the state. He said, "You said it yourself." You say that when the tip touches you. You need judgment, we need judgment, we all need judgment. Look, I'm telling you the date, August 4, 2011. I've got newspaper clippings. Muharrem İnce said: "We're going towards general amnesty." I mean, you're bringing in so many generals, MPs, professors, journalists, all the opposition, do you know why? There is only one reason: You will forgive Abdullah Ocalan. So you grow the fan, you expand it, and when you ask for forgiveness, you do it to get support from the community. Judgement is your control...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0089par0126	Are you a scholar? How do you know?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0088par0127	What do you know, you don't know anything. The main opposition party doesn't know anything about this process, no one's saying anything; the opposition parties don't know anything, and you don't know anything. In fact, let alone the members of the Council of Ministers don't know.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0090par0128	You know?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0088par0129	I don't know, I admit it. Forget it, the President's not in the process. The President doesn't know what's going on. While the nation's future is being debated, negotiations continue, you continue to be a finger machine, while no one knows what you're getting or what you're getting. I'll put it on the record. I'll write it down. I'll do my duty as MP of the main opposition party, do my part, you keep thinking about the list next semester, you keep thinking about it. What do you know? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you know what you're getting, what you're getting, what you're negotiating? You don't know anything!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0091par0135	What do you know?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0088par0136	You don't know anything! And no one's asking you that!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0092par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0093par0139	You didn't come to Çanakkale.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0092par0140	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0094par0141	Sir, I would like to make a contribution to these conversations from my position, since we have not been able to take the words according to 69.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0092par0142	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0094par0145	Dear President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, it is imperative that we know that we have exhausted some values with constant debates like this. As the National Movement Party, I would like to remind you on behalf of my people, as a party here to witness these debates, that the debate over values, through values of our nation, through values of our republic, harms those values, and it never increases politics. Those who want to get a political runt on this should have seen it coming by now, and if they keep going, they'll see it. The second thing I'm going to say as the National Movement Party is, if you don't put the subject of a sentence, there's no point in uploading it. It is unfair not to say "Victory of Chanakkale" and to say "Turkish people" to this nation, it is an insult to the nation. We will never accept this as the National Movement Party. Never, nor will this nation forgive those who insult this nation. The victory of Çanakkale is the victory of the Turkish nation. So, as the Prime Minister said, no one will be able to put something new into the name of the Chanakkale spirit and take away the achievements of this nation, the triumphs of this nation from this nation. I would like to express this on behalf of the Turkish nation as the National Movement Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0095par0150	Thank you. [[Continue]] The question-answer process will now be done. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0096par0158	Mr. President, thank you. I, Mr. Secretary, have asked the State Department, especially the Ministry of National Defense, to apply for access to the base in the Globecik, which is intended to protect Israel, in the past few months. You wouldn't let me, but recently, a representative of a gun lobby operating in the U.S.A., walked right into the Globechik, where he shared his notes with the American press. So what you're saying is that you're saying that I blame this attitude of yours, this attitude, to the American Rickye, to the Malatian Veli. I'm here to complain to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey again, Mr. Secretary, and I want you to know that I'm going to try to get this permit.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0095par0160	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0097par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've lifted the visa with Yemen, in today's newspapers... now, there's a feature of Yemen, a feature of Yemen, where the majority of Al-Qaedan is located, so Al-Qaeda is the center of Al-Qaeda. Now, is our goal to lift this visa commercially, or is it to make Al Qaeda people come through Turkey and go to Syria and fight? From the date when we removed the visa, or how many have already entered from Yemen to Turkey, are there any of those who have entered from Yemen to Syria? I want to know more about this. Second: On what grounds were the electronic systems held by the Chief of Staff taken and given to the MIT? And there are very serious doubts about that, and there are a lot of martyrs who have been involved in the fact that MIT did not send intelligence to the soldiers in time. Here, 27 people were martyred around Hakkari, 17 were martyred one day. Do you intend to give the General Staff their electronic systems back to the General Staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0098par0166	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0099par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you know, in Syria, a terrorist organization called the Al Qaeda Front of El Nusra is fighting, slaughtering innocent people. It is said that your government has attempted to remove the Al Nusra Front from the list of terrorist organizations in the United States, correct? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0100par0171	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0173	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, as the Ministry of National Defense, it's true, Veli Aghababa asked for permission, we didn't give permission to allow it, and we didn't allow anyone else to go there. That's the first sentence. I'm telling the truth, so we didn't let anything happen.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0102par0176	Ricky's in!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0177	Two: In response to the question of Mr. Young, we are opening to Africa and Asia and Europe and America. If not, Turkey would not have been able to get from $36 billion in exports to $150 billion in exports. We have a target of 2023, to deliver $150 billion in exports to $500 billion. How are you going to deliver this? Your own businessman, your own manufacturer, should be able to go to other countries without any obstacles. To get to Yemen without a visa, a visa must be removed from a Yemeni citizen. So that's what we're trying to do, but other than that, it's not expected to answer the question, it's expressing its own opinion, it's not true... the goal is to ensure that citizens of Turkey are able to travel freely to every corner of the world. Another, look, everyone with a good heart surrenders that Turkey's struggle against terrorism over the last two years has been the most successful period of 30 years -- look at the views of the strategists.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0103par0179	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0104par0180	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0181	If that's what everyone says, put your hands on your conscience.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0105par0182	You say he's the most successful of the PKK!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0183	That's what everyone says.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0105par0184	You're so proud!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0185	No one can say anything except the ones in ideological blindness, when it's the most successful.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0106par0186	You surrender, surrender!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0187	There is no conflict between the state's institutions, there is cooperation, the most successful in the fight against terrorism...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0107par0188	You're on your knees!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0189	He's the most successful!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0190	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0191	Who are you kidding?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0192	No, he's your...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0193	Thanks to you, I've dealt with...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0194	People know! People know! People know!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0195	You're organizing rallies, freedom for Ocalan, status for PKK, status for Kurds!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0196	People know! People know! That's what they say when I see one-on-one friends of yours, who are well-bred.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0197	Isn't it you, Mr. Secretary, who said this opening won't stop terrorism?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0198	Don't worry, the Sivasian knows, and so do the people.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0199	He knows, he knows!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0109par0200	Mr. Vural, please, Mr. Secretary is responding, one second...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0201	Other than that, there's something about terrorism that has something to do with it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0108par0202	This opening doesn't stop terrorism...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0101par0203	I mean, you know what you're saying, what you understand... you're out of your ability to represent the MHP, and you can't represent the MHP!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0110par0205	Please, Mr. Secretary, answer the questions.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0111par0206	So everybody knows.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0112par0207	You're a man who can't represent the government, who can't represent the TSK. Do you represent the PKK?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0111par0208	We are representatives of the Turkish nation. We have no effort, no effort to eliminate any terrorist organization from any country's list. We consider anyone who kills the innocent to be a terrorist, and that's how we evaluate it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0112par0210	You're dealing with a terrorist organization. You get a little embarrassed, embarrassed. Who are you, who are the MHP, who are the people, who are the nationalists! Your work is an insult to these people.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0113par0211	Please, Mr. Vural. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0114par0213	You haven't responded to the General Staff's electronic systems.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0115par0214	I did, I did.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0113par0215	Mr. Special, ask your question, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0116par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to talk about an incident that happened after the transfer of the General Staff's electronic systems to the MIT. Was our plane that was shot down in Syria given a route that violated Syrian air waters the day before the flight? Did the fleet object to that? Did the flight profile and route of the plane, which was challenged by the BİS, now connected to MİS, have been forced into the air and crashed a few minutes later while the plane was in the air, following the fleet's objection? Why are you ignoring the questions we've made about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0117par0219	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0118par0221	Mr. President, I have a question for the Minister. According to the latest media reports, we have read that our general, who is overseeing the Patriots, has been in the way of German soldiers and has been in the way. Is that true, what's its validity? Do they have a right to block? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0117par0222	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0119par0224	Mr. Secretary, you say we didn't allow anyone, but it was written by an important journalist, and it was shared in the press. Maybe if you don't have authority, I can understand him. The National Department of Defense has no authority, the United States has authority, I can understand that, but the representative of an American weapons lobby -- his name is Ricky Minister -- has entered there. He made an assessment of the sphere. Once again, if you don't have the authority, we can understand, we can understand that you don't have the authority to do it, but I'm putting you back on notice that you're not allowed to do it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0117par0225	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0120par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on New Year's Day, American soldiers entered a mosque in İncirlik, destroying the altar, desecrating the mosque. We were told there was an investigation on that subject, where is it? That's my first question. Second: Again, a motion by the military prosecutor to ask about the investigation into the martyrdom of our two pilots regarding our unidentified aircraft in the Mediterranean region was said to be a confidentiality decision. Where's he at, why isn't he out in the open? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0121par0231	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0122par0233	Mr. Secretary, we've given you written questions before about the public officials in the hands of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Our determination was 16 since 1982. In the answers to the questions we've given you, we're investigating, we're looking. You said, "Well," and it turns out there's no inventory. But so far, eight public officials from Kandil have been handed over to the Republic of Turkey. So, do you know anything about the others? At least, if they're dead, I think their parents have a right to know they're dead. And also: you're operating in Syria and you're making a big deal about catching the American's killer and you're sharing it with the public. I wonder why you haven't been able to operate in Iraq and bring in public officials by now.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0121par0235	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0123par0237	Thank you. Let's talk to the Secretary of State: Do you feel ashamed to send a delegation to Imralı to remember our martyrs in Çanakkale on March 18th? Are you proud to take the PKK and place Turkish Armed Forces as criminals and suspects? What is the source of your conversation with Ocalan when the Chief of Staff is sentenced to life imprisonment? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0124par0243	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0125par0245	According to a BDP statement, a bilateral ceasefire will be held on March 21st, based on letters sent from Imralı to Kandil. Instead, a bilateral ceasefire means a cease-fire against terrorism. In his statement, the Prime Minister said that the fight against terrorism would continue, that negotiations with political extensions would be held. Then explain how to fight terrorism after a bilateral ceasefire.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0124par0246	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0126par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the money for the state-made prosthetic foot of a veteran who was shot to death by another soldier while he was in the army is requested back, with interest. Do you intend to make a status change to our veterans, the veterans who were injured in the military? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0127par0251	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0128par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, public officials had their hands tied behind their backs in photos of public officials being handed over to the media by PKK's terrorist organization, and their clothes were militant suits of the terrorist organization. As a minister of the state of this image, did you, if you're uncomfortable, do what's necessary? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0129par0256	Thank you. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0130par0258	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, prior to the 2011 elections, Mr. Prime Minister asked this nation to vote and voted, saying that there is no Kurdish issue, we do not accept such a thing. Now, I ask you, did any AKP official ask the citizen to vote, saying, "We will deal with the villain of the Imran?" If he didn't want it, where do you get it from if you don't get it from the community? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0131par0261	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0132par0263	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, why did you reject the offer to deliver PKK-led baby killers Murat Karayalan and Cemil Bayiq?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0131par0265	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0133par0267	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the negotiations between the director of the terrorist organization and your government, as far as I can tell, are not based on the release of weapons from the PKK, but on the deployment of armed PKK elements to northern Iraq, Kurdish territory, and the settlement of Barzani to Kandil. Aren't you, in this case, providing support for the terrorist organization by developing relations with Barzani, by buying oil from that area? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0134par0271	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0135par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: We've all served. When we wrote a letter to our family, the letter of Er was seen on the letters. That is also true of the prisoners. In the letters of Abdullah Ocalan, the letter of the prisoner has been seen. Are you a courageous government or did you not stamp those letters? That's my first question. Second question: we have a Prime Minister who forbids his own words. One Prime Minister is in two Erdogans. How do you find that as a member of that government? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0136par0277	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0137par0279	Mr. President, thank you. In general, I answer the questions by the amount of my notes. First of all, there is no such thing as a bilateral ceasefire, our fight against terrorism will continue. There will be no compromise from the war on terror. Now, did I say that? Is that a fact? It's real. Asking the same question again, asking another congressman or another minister, like I didn't say it, asking a written question is a futile occupation of the agenda. Did the Prime Minister tell you?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0138par0283	The Prime Minister isn't saying anything right.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0137par0284	As the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, I say there is no such thing as a mutual ceasefire, it will continue without a single ounce of concession from the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0139par0285	If they do, we won't operate. Didn't he say? Who are you kidding?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0140par0286	Mr. Secretary, lawmakers have the right to ask questions, and you will answer them. Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0141par0288	Okay. Sir, that's what I'm saying, just like that.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0140par0290	Go ahead, sir, yes.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0142par0291	How are we supposed to believe the Prime Minister? He's an interviewing bastard. He says, and then he sees her.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0141par0292	There is no compromise in the fight against terrorism, and our fight against terrorism will continue. As long as there's terror in our country, our armed forces and our law enforcement forces will continue to fight terrorism, that's number one.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0143par0293	You don't have a safety net!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0141par0294	Besides, the police will go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0143par0295	You don't have political will.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0144par0296	Who doesn't have political will?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0141par0297	...there's no doubt about it. Everyone knows, our people know, get out, look. Polls say that if there was a weakness in the fight against terrorism, the results of the polls wouldn't show it. Don't doubt it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0143par0298	Only 24 percent of the polls confirm that you did it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0141par0299	Good, good, of course, very good!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0145par0300	Mr. Secretary is responding, so shut up and listen; you asked a question, and he'll answer it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0143par0301	None of your business! Come and ask him! Are you a lawyer or a lawyer?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0145par0302	I'm a lawyer, and I'm a lawyer!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0146par0303	One other thing...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0143par0304	If you're his lawyer, get up there and sit down!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0145par0305	I'm a lawyer, too, yeah!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0146par0306	Members of parliament, with the leadership of the terrorist organization, Murat Karayilan...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0147par0307	You just talk in the face!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0148par0308	You run this place?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0149par0309	Congressmans, please, Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0150par0310	I'm not running it, and the president is. Listen to me.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0151par0311	You're just gonna talk in circles, fason!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0150par0312	Don't insult me, don't insult me, don't insult me!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0152par0313	What are you gonna do, what are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0153par0314	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0154par0315	...there were no proposals or proposals to our government in order for the handover of Cemil Bayık (Cemil Bayık) to Turkey, which would be rejected or not accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0155par0316	Not an insult; a figure, a form of governance!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0156par0317	We know what you are!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0154par0318	Another request from another member of parliament...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0155par0319	You're the fucking idiot, and your shit's broke! You're a piece of shit!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0156par0320	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0155par0321	Disgraceful!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0157par0322	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0323	We're still investigating the destruction of the mosque at İncirlik Base and the plane that crashed in international waters on the international coast of Syria. But the investigations, as you know, are long-term; sometimes the coroner's report isn't available very soon. So, these investigations continue. It'll go public after it's gone on. Know that this government has nothing to hide from this nation. Everything goes on in transparency. In fact, many criticize us as to why it's so transparent.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0159par0324	Did you put glass in the interviews?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0325	The other thing is, in the Turkish Armed Forces, indeed, sometimes, of course, our Mehmets are human beings, and they have guns. Sometimes one of our Mehmet-chiks can hurt or kill another Mehmet-chik. As our deputy said, if a bullet from one of our Mehmet-chik's guns has a prosthetic implant in one of our other members, we don't find it right to take a prosthetic price. We think that the existing laws give you the opportunity not to demand this right, but if it doesn't give you the opportunity, if it doesn't give you the opportunity, there's an additional study going on, and we put it in that study, which we feel obliged to hand over to our children, who we have taken from our own nation as collateral, as we take it. And if there's a flaw, we think it's our duty to fulfill the shortcomings within the scope of the state's resources. Again, look, the government has intelligence units. It is the duty of these intelligence agencies to look into what terrorist organisations think, what they want to do, what their plans are, what they know, and to present it to government decision-making executives. Thus, this process continues in this framework. We also think that our nation has the full support of this process.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0327	The Prime Minister is an intelligence officer? He's running it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0328	No, we have the National Intelligence Agency.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0329	What intelligence does it depend on?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0330	We have a national intelligence agency, so our national intelligence agency is sending it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0331	What intelligence guy?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0332	Another thing, really, is that we also knew the area where our own public officials, who were abducted by terrorist organizations, were located abroad, in northern Iraq. However, in the event of an operation, this result was also considered the risk of their lives. So the only thing that's gone is that nobody's nose is bleeding.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0333	So you're in a position to operate.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0334	We're not at all like that, the Turkish nation, more powerful than you can imagine, more powerful than your dreams can ever be, has shown that power, the time, when it's time, when it's time. There's no doubt about it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0335	You don't have it, you don't have it. Mehmet's got it, the police have it, you don't.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0336	And after that, I think it'll show you exactly the same. There's also will. Two: Turkish Armed Forces are strong and security forces strong. It is strong enough to eliminate any threat to the Turkish nation. He'll be here by now. It's not the Turkish Armed Forces that are on trial, it's the Turkish Armed Forces that are somehow conflicted about whether or not they're connected to another place. So, the Turkish Armed Forces... look, we all have one armed force in common. I'm asking you -- and I'm saying this -- let's not do politics over the Turkish Armed Forces. Other than that, you're free to criticize our government. Therefore, our armed forces are common value, so let's pretend to protect them and not attack them again.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0338	You're the one who attacked the armed forces.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0158par0339	The Republic of Turkey has never been more...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0341	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0160par0342	You're planning a coup with the PKK, you're planning a constitutional coup with the PKK.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0162par0343	Mr. Secretary adjusts at the beginning of every sentence, at the end of every sentence, to anyone who asks questions. We're congressmen, we have a right to ask questions, and he has an obligation to answer lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0344	I've warned the Minister, every MP has the right to ask questions, and you will answer them.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0162par0345	You can't keep asking like that...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0163par0346	Mr. President, did the Minister not answer our questions, will he answer in writing, or does he not know the answers, or does silence come from the agreement?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0347	I don't know about that, sir. He's in the Minister's favor. Why don't you explain yourself?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0164par0348	I believe I answered from here, but those who didn't get it will be answered in writing.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0165par0349	So he's the one who's hurting, international agreements...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0350	Thank you. Negotiations on the entire bill are complete, and I submit to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0166par0352	Paintings of shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0353	I'm reading article one: THE CONTACT OF CONTRIBUTION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY REPLICATION IS CONTROLATION OF THE CONTACTION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THOLOGY The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which was signed in Ankara on October 22, 2009, was approved. There's no demand for word on matter.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0167par0357	Go talk to him about the negotiations, get out, Mr. Secretary of Defense...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0358	I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0168par0365	Question, question.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0169par0366	Mr. President, there's a question.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0367	Mr. Şandir il's office is concerned about the 1st matter. Do you want to speak or ask questions, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0168par0368	I was going to ask questions, but I gave up.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit03spe0161par0369	Well, thank you. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[There was a vote on the electronic device.]] Members of the Parliaments, the Court of the State of Turkey's Government and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan have voted publicly to ratify the Co-operation Agreement between the State of Science and Technology: ▪ Number of votes used: 251 [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Mine Leuk White So the bill is accepted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 79th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with Bill 292 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, you have no idea of the laws that have come to you in my speech just now. I said, "You don't understand." Now you get that, too. I mean, you understood something at the beginning of the 40 years, but you got it wrong, too. We're going to...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0009	Mr. Horseman, please, you have no right to insult anyone. You'll have your opinion from here. You have no right to speak to the MPs like that, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0010	What did I insult, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0011	No, you're insulting me.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0012	What did I do?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0013	Yes, you're insulting me.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0014	What did I do?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0015	Please...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0171par0016	You got it wrong. You said it.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0017	Repeat what I said.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0018	I repeat what you say.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0019	I said you didn't understand, is that an insult?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0020	You didn't understand, you also misunderstood. Please, Mr. Horseman...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0021	I said you've got it wrong. Is that an insult? They got it wrong. I'll fix it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0022	Is that a thing, Mr. Pitcher?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0023	I do.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0025	Please... Speak on the matter, please.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0027	I'm telling you, you got it wrong. I'm telling you, you're jumping. What's wrong with that? You've got it wrong, now I'm going to fix what you're misunderstanding.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0029	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0030	Now, we don't tell you not to help Moritanya. Here comes the Congressman, talking about baby deaths, mother deaths. It's like we're saying, "Don't help Moritanya." Dear friends, help Moritania. Moritania needs help. I'm telling you how not to help Moritania, and I'm telling you not to do these things, and when you do, the infant deaths there will increase even more. The infant deaths there will increase even more. You know how it goes up?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0172par0031	Do you know what the infant deaths in Turkey are? Teacher, can you please tell us about the infant deaths in Turkey? Can you tell me what he ran away ten years ago and now he's gone?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0161par0032	Mr. Çurk, please...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0033	Mrs. Oznur, look, I mean, you're not letting me talk, I'll take another ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0173par0034	It doesn't suit you at all.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0035	Look at the work I've done on baby deaths, and then pick on me.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0174par0036	Here, take as much as you can!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0037	Now, do you know how these infant deaths increase in Moritania? If you apply the practice you're doing here in Moritania, the infant deaths are there, sir, not 117 in a thousand, but 300 in a thousand, because when you're talking about your health policies, your prime minister says, "Put your birth certificate in your pocket, go wherever you want. My citizen will be examined. Did he or did he not say so? Okay, good. Now, I just told you, in nine places, you've received contributions and participation. I'd like the Congressman to come out and rebut them. I am the Horseman, and you are not telling the truth. I'm rebutting you. None of that is true. I expected him to say it. He didn't say a word about what I said. It's here that Moritania is in need of such help. You're right, let's help Moritania.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0175par0039	God bless you!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0040	However, a person who puts a birth certificate in his pocket in Turkey no longer receives health care. When does he get it? When he put his wallet in his other pocket. He'll put his birth certificate in one pocket, put his wallet in the other pocket, get health care like this in Turkey. Go out, repeat this; go out, say: "No, health services are free in Turkey." Say, "I was wrong." Go and tell Moritania about this. Now it's about health, we need to talk about health. The MP also entered the economy, and he said: "As a Muslim country, we have been able to lend money to the IMF." Now, what part of this should I correct? The state of the Republic of Turkey is not a Muslim country, it is a state where the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Turkey are Muslims, but if your intention is to exercise our ears now, you will get the answer that is needed; this is one. I've got 38 seconds left, and you won't let me talk. Two: we've become lenders to IMF. You say. There's wisdom, there's logic, there's logic! Now, look at your total debts. Look at your total debts, yes, you've reduced the debt to the IMF, but when you take it from one side and put it on the other side, your debt to the IMF is reduced, but your total external debt increases much more. I don't see it as an economist, I'm not saying it, I'm saying it as a citizen.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0176par0044	What you've given me for $500 million! You did it wrong!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0045	The Minister of Health has launched a program on obesity, and those who have problems with obesity may have a heart attack. I have to warn him, too.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0176par0046	The Minister of Health has started something for the mentally ill!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0170par0047	I'll see you on the other item.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0177par0049	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0178par0054	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0179par0055	He's late, he's late...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0177par0056	Wait a second, Mr. Lawmakers, we're not going to ask you if he's late. Please!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0179par0057	Why are you scolding me, Mr. President? We said he's late. Why are you scolding him?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0177par0058	I mean, you didn't put up any internal regulations here, you didn't put up any manners, please! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You can't stop it, under the terms of the Civil Code. You can't stop it, the right to speak. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0180par0063	Dear friends, let him speak, but let him speak properly. He is tried, let him not condemn. He is called. If you take an insult from the transcripts, I'll apologize.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0181par0064	Friend, as a doctor -- my friend as a fat -- how do you use the word "obesity"? Shame on you! Isn't that rude?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0182par0065	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0180par0066	I've given up... if there's anyone I've insulted, I'm sorry. I'm not dealing with anyone, I'm just doing my duty as a physician, explaining the risks. Yeah, well, nobody likes a person having a heart attack here. However, the congressman over there says: "Leave it, it's bad-looking. Now, does that sound like a human being? Does it look like a human being? Whispering under the table isn't very young.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0183par0068	Why are you hitting below the waist?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0184par0069	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0185par0070	Don't shout, come out, talk, don't shout!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0186par0071	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0187par0072	Now, get out, here, criticize me when I'm young. Just as I criticized you and put the dagger in your lungs, you stick the dagger in my liver.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0188par0073	For 500 million liras, you sat hand and foot!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0189par0074	Get on the stand, speak up, don't shout!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0187par0075	This isn't about yelling...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0188par0076	Answer me! People were being held hostage in hospitals, and you're talking.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0187par0077	I just said something, so I won't say it again.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0188par0078	Say it, say it again.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0187par0079	I'm not answering that.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0188par0080	You can't!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0187par0081	I don't answer that because it's not words. I don't even know what you're talking about. Now, you will insult me there, where you sit...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0188par0083	I'm not insulting you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0187par0084	I'm going to shut up here!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0190par0085	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0188par0086	You donated the help from the earthquake, and then...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0190par0087	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0191par0088	Mr. President, give the friend five minutes, he'll be on the stand, he'll talk.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0192par0089	Now, you're going to get up, and we're going to help Moritania. You're going to say, "You're going to try to put the health care system that you're applying to Moritania here." You'll say to Moritanya: "Don't be a mother's milk banker." We tried, we put all the money of the citizen into the breast milk bank, and then some people said: "There is no Zinahar. We took a step back. You will not build mother's milk banking there. Look, you've been doing a good job in health for the first 40 years... you've got a few better jobs, look, we'll tell you when you've done a good job. Mother's milk banking was a good thing. Congressman, the baby mentioned the rate of death, probably forgot that I was a pediatrician. She may not know my services in this country to reduce baby deaths, but everyone knows that breast milk is a lifesaver, and breast milk saves babies' lives. As you jump here, the babies die in Moritanya.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0193par0091	He's dying in Syria, he's dying in Syria.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0192par0092	Now, look, if you want to bring up Syria, we'll talk about it. Now, see for yourself how you change the word. We'll talk about it, we've talked about it a lot. When you change the subject, don't think I won't shut up, and as long as you're talking, I'll take full legal action. Mother's milk is a lifesaver. Now, do you realize how many babies you've killed here by banning breast milk banking? Get out of here and tell me that mother's milk isn't a lifesaver. Go ahead, deny me. Get out of there, deny me, tell me that mother's milk is useless to Turkey. Come on. But you did. Your minister took the money of this state, billions of dollars, and invested it to build a mother's milk bank in İzmir. Your money, all of our money... laid down, and then somebody came along, and he said, "No, no. This is the wrong religion. O my brother, if this is a mistake, then let them be of the people of the religion, and let them not dwell over my head. But how do you stop people from saying, "I want to save my child's life, so give my child breast milk"? I didn't do this. You did. Now, why don't you get up and cancel breast-milk banking in Moritanya? I mean, let's really talk straight, let's really do it right. Let's help Moritania, of course, but don't take the health system you're applying to Turkey to Moritania, that's what I'm telling you. Well, it's been hard on you, so let's take the script backwards if you want. Let's say you had a chance to talk to Moritania again, and you'll agree to this deal, but... well, I won't say don't do this, I won't say don't do this, I'll tell you to do it. Go, my friends who have gone to Moritania, we have signed this agreement, but don't let your Prime Minister say that I don't give injections to Moritanian doctors. Tell him that. If the Prime Minister of Moritania, I don't even give injections to Moritanian doctors. If the doctors are offended, the motivation of doctors is reduced and the chances of saving lives are low. You'll make a deal, at least say those things. Then, tell the Minister of Health of Moritania: "The doctors are making a fuss." Don't say that because we had a Minister of Health, the doctors are making a fuss. He said, "The doctors are very upset and their sacred profession has been damaged, so don't do it. I'll bring the professors from Moritanya to your feet. Tell him he's your Minister of Health. Because your Minister of Health said it, our Prime Minister said it, and even if they're mad, let them turn my patient away, and I'll mix the forehead with the one who turned it down. So this level is for a good prime minister, when I'm speaking for the public on this bench, the level is not good, but a prime minister will say, "I mess with doctors' foreheads." You'll like this level, everyone will applaud. That's it! Don't do it. We've made this mistake, so don't let your Prime Minister Moritanian doctors get confused. Your Minister of Health, the era of the Doctor is over. Because there was never a time when we had doctors who had done wrong, in Turkey, we didn't punish them, we destroyed all the doctors, but don't do it in Moritania. Then, tell Moritania that with this agreement... you know, the other issues that I object to, you have the opportunity to agree on, because you can put everything in the matter that we put the opposition note in, put a clause in the Ministry of Health, don't try to shut it down if there's a medical union in Mauritania and it's against it. If you can't close your arms, don't shave your legs because the association of doctors is a political institution that embraces all political views and serves everyone without religion, language, apartheid, and what they say is important because we couldn't do it in Turkey, and we've had a lot of trouble because we couldn't do it, and we've tried to shut down the Union of Turkish Medicines, and it didn't happen, and the Constitution has turned away from us, and it's against universal law, and don't embarrass yourselves. Say that, and say that in that 2nd article (d) joke. Then, say, "Look, we've tried a system called performance." According to this system, we employ our physicians. Before the performance system, physicians were a team, worked with the spirit of the team, worked with the nurses, worked with the technicians. Now, we've brought in the performance system, the team's spirit is broken. How many patients did you take care of? How many patients did you take care of?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0194par0102	He's a rival, a rival.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0192par0103	Two nurses are too much, I want a nurse. Even in the ICU, when we were asking for a lot of nurses...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0195par0104	You've forgotten the lines in front of the SEC hospitals too quickly.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0192par0105	I don't need too many nurses anymore because I have to split my income, and that's not a good thing. The physicians are now rivals in Turkey. Please don't do this in Moritania, for if the physicians are rivals, the babies will die. Doctors, nurses, pharmacists, technicians need to work with a team's spirit, and if you break it, babies will be the most affected.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0195par0106	There was a former SEC general manager, remember his policies?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0192par0107	Do not subcontract business medicine in Moritanya. Add this to the joke of the 2nd article, which we subcontracted as workplace medicine, and the workers' deaths increased. We're trying to reduce the deaths in Moritania, so don't subcontract workplace medicine. Start your physicians, but don't work too hard. If you work too hard, they'll be inefficient, the patients will die. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0196par0110	Hajji, bless the mother who gave birth to you and the teacher who raised you!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0197par0111	Thank you. Türkan Dağoğlu has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0198par0114	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, my colleague, Congressman Aytug Horseman, I am truly amazed at the explanations of the newborn that he had just said on the stand. We've all lived in the same situation, in the same place, in the neighborhood, where newborn babies end up on the streets looking for hospitals in mothers' laps. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Ministry of Health may be critical of certain things in health, but never in this regard. He knows very well that a newborn baby's daily expenses, the cost of a baby in intensive care, is about 1,500 lira, and the ministry is already paying for these families without hesitation to the deans or hospitals. Therefore, none of what was said just now reflects the truth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If you have health studies, public studies, regardless of the outcome, don't place $5 here in the public eye, the public is so pleased that whatever you say, the satisfaction has risen from 38 percent to 80 percent, and the cost has gone further. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for Moritania, my deputies were no different from Moritania when Turkey came to the AK PARTY on the subject of the newborn.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0199par0121	Who was the Istanbul County Health Director at the time? It was his wife.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0198par0122	We all know these facts, and I've built a foundation and a foundation in my own unit to save babies, just to give those babies their money and save them.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0199par0123	Don't fight your brother-in-law when you get home!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0200par0124	Show some fucking respect, show some fucking respect!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0198par0125	As for the milk bank, of course, you know very well about the milk bank, we've always said in our talks, "mother's milk," "mother's milk," "mother's milk." The Ministry does not oppose this, nor does anyone else. But, of course, we have to consider the religious sensibilities of society. Now, after we've done that, there's no one against breast milk; there's no ministry, there's no one. We're constantly explaining this, and the breast milk banking is going to continue, and the babies are going to get the breast milk. Don't worry about it, you'll get breast milk. As for another matter, the house of the people on the birth certificate -- do I know wrong -- already exists, the AK PARTY didn't put it there.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0201par0127	It's the law from the CHP.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0198par0128	But then moms and dads would go out and make their own population, and now they're getting this recording from hospitals, and it goes straight to statistics. I don't know what's wrong with that. It's perfectly natural. Congressman, if you come to small age groups, I, as chairman of the Children's Rights Watch Committee, already under 15 years of age, do you think that this is a rape or illegitimate, for some other reason, of course, as the most natural right, and in a protective social state, that this is as natural as being asked, as a mother of three children, as a doctor and as a congressman, I never, ever, ever think that there could be anything more natural than that. In health, Turkey is leading, and as long as everything is as good and orderly as health. Then no one will be able to stand in the way of Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0202par0133	It's a failure by wife!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0203par0134	Yes, in the name of the person on the matter Aykan Erdemir, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0204par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Moritania-Turkey co-operation is really important. Why does it matter? Because as well as health in Moritania, it is also important to develop democracy. Why is it important to develop democracy in Moritania? Because, military custody, I know, and I believe that all four parties in this House are against its group.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0205par0139	You're not against it! You're sending a delegation to Assad. Is that where democracy is?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0204par0140	Let's see what kind of regime we face when we look at Moritania. The President, who we co-operated with today in Moritania, is the general who struck on 6 August 2008.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0206par0142	It's perfect for you!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0204par0143	Yes, the President you co-operated with is the coup general. But how did he become President? He resigned on 16 April 2009, was elected President on 19 July, and sold military custody as democracy. Now, the Republic of Turkey is collaborating with a military custody product charged with slavery, women's circumcision, child exploitation and human trafficking in all international human rights reports. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But what kind of cooperation? Look, lawmakers, let's look at the security cooperation agreement signed by your Home Secretary, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin, in February 2012. What support does Turkey provide to Moritania? He's training the police. Well, the bride, who we're training for the police -- who's giving it to Mr. Idris Naim Şahin -- I don't know what training he's giving now, whether he's giving it to you with organic pepper spray, if he's giving it to you with pressure water, if he's giving it to you with baton -- but let's take a look at Moritania's report card in the International Amnesty Reports. The Amnesty of the International Government of the United States says there is systematic discrimination against black people. It says that non-Arabism is systematically Arabised and forgotten in non-Arabism. It says that torture is systematically carried out in Mortitania. It says, "There is no independence of justice in Moritania, there is no length of imprisonment, there is no mention of the rule of law," he says.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0207par0148	That's a lot of bros!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0204par0149	Now, this International Amnesty Report, is it written on Moritania, is it written on Turkey, I'm mixing it up from time to time. I'm just saying, was Moritania always like this, or did Mr. Idris Naim Şahin get this way with democracy, with the methods he learned from Turkey -- in a nail -- after the security co-operation agreement signed by Mr. Naim Şahin? Aside from that, no doubt Turkey and Moritania must cooperate. And as the Republican People's Party, let's cooperate at the point of a leader representing the will of the people of Mauritania, under the guise of democracy, under the guise of democracy, under the guise of cooperation, if we're going to justify military custody in Moritania, while we're doing so, we're going to justify military custody in Turkey, if we're really going to argue that we're against military and military power in Turkey. Do you know what kind of double standard? Today, a journalist is in prison and has been in prison for a year. You know why? On his last tweet, he wrote: "The Republic of Turkey is selling armoured vehicles to Bahrain, and its democratic opposition is suppressing Turkish armored vehicles." Today, in Bahrain prisons, he is in prison under pressure from the government of the Republic of Turkey, the government of Bahrain. [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] So, if we're going to be on the side of democracy in Syria, in Bahrain, and in Mauritania, we're going to be on the side of democracy, but if we're going to make a double standard, we're going to have no food as Republican People's Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0208par0155	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aytuğ Atıcı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0209par0161	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I'm going to pick up where we left off, but some of the things our dear congressman friend, our dear teacher, said...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0208par0163	Mr. Horseman, you have a request on your behalf, 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0209par0165	Not for me.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0210par0166	No, go ahead, Hajji, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0211par0167	Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0209par0168	No, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0212par0169	Here you go, go ahead, ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0209par0170	Okay. Now, once I can tell you that we've come to a very good point, we've come to a good point. A member of the AKP is coming out, and he says from the bench: "Some things can be criticised by the Ministry of Health." It's beautiful. Look, it's a good thing that you can see some points that can be criticised, or even beyond that, that you can come out and say it from that bench. From now on, these things will be corrected. Dear friends, the Republican People's Party is not your enemy, it is the duty of the People's Party of the Republic to oversee you by the nation, it is your duty to tell you things that you have done wrong, knowingly, unawarely, to guide you, and to protect the interests of our country. Other than that, I, for one, have no intention. And when I say that, yes, sometimes I'm a little pointy, but I try not to insult any of you, and I don't, but you can only understand that at the end of a year or two, we've got some things here to criticize. You've come to the point. However...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0213par0174	You judge everything, you can't do it!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0209par0175	It's a good sign that we're judging and you're starting to accept these criticisms. Look, I'm telling you something good, you're digging through it again. I mean, I'm saying something good, so from now on, let me say something good. Now, the Congressman who came up here said that nothing he said reflects the truth. Now, about three seconds after I said that, he said, "Don't put 5 TL in people's eyes." None of what you're saying reflects the truth. It means, don't go out after three seconds and shove the 5 TL in the human eye, the people are pleased with it. It's actually being acknowledged by you that what we're saying is true. But I'll fix one thing, according to your polls, the satisfaction isn't 80 percent, it's 67 percent.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0214par0178	80, 80! This time it's gonna be higher than that.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0209par0179	Look, we're scientists, and I'm telling you about the survey by the AKP. Now, look, what we're saying is...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0215par0180	What's the percentage?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0216par0181	How many for you?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0217par0182	90%!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0183	Dear friends, the person who comes out here and talks has to be careful. That's what I'm...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0219par0184	No, how many do you think?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0185	Look, scientific people don't answer a question, how many do you think they are? He'll talk if he's got frost on his hands.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0220par0186	If you're being critical, give it a shot.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0187	I don't have any data on pleasure.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0221par0189	How can you say it isn't?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0190	I'm speaking from your data, you don't know the data you have.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0222par0191	You do not accept current data.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0192	Look, the data you have is right, it's wrong, but ultimately it's data. You've asked people if they've gone, and they've been scientifically evaluated by statistical methods, but it's not 80, so go find out. In your opinion, how many is a patchy bundle is to create a puzzle - shaped health system? Look, guys...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0223par0194	75 percent.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0224par0195	Tell me the truth, how many?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0196	Look, the Minister said here that it was 75 percent.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0225par0197	He's loyal to the Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0198	Well, the Minister says so, so he knows he's talking. Does the big minister talk without knowing?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0225par0199	Sir, TİK is up to the Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0200	Yeah, well, neither do you!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0201	I'm saying your data isn't 80.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0227par0202	In 2002, it was less than 40 percent.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0203	How many, how many?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0204	The data you're describing is 67 percent, the Minister says 75 percent, not 80 percent.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0205	How many, how many?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0206	I mean, how nice it is to get up here and talk about your number without knowing yours, so you guys should consider it. Don't jump out of there, I'm saying what you're saying.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0207	Tell me, what is it?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0228par0208	He said, what are you yelling about?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0209	Now, my dear friend, I've told you the number of the polls you've conducted.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0210	So tell him to run.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0211	67.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0212	A little 67?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0213	It is so in your eyes, and in your eyes it is 67.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0226par0214	Is it 38 big or 67 big?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0229par0215	Is there a document, a document?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0216	That's the way you look at it, statistically speaking, you claim it, I don't claim it. You claim 67, and then you come out here and you say, " 80 percent." What am I supposed to say?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0230par0217	They don't know the world, they say 75, 80, 65!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0218	Now, we've talked about breast milk, and we have religious sensibilities about breast milk. We agree with all your religious sensibilities, all of them, look. No one has the right to question what is written in his holy book. In our holy book, four places related to breast milk and breast - feeding include signs. We evaluate them all by being sensitive, and we want them to be treated accordingly.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0231par0219	Nobody says no to breast milk!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0220	We don't say, ignore these sensibilities. It's not our place, it's not our place. These sensibilities are important. Look, even a Christian should respect these sensibilities. We say: respect these sensibilities and set up a breast-milk banking business. The mother's milk bank has been declared its opening date, and it's all over. So I looked it up, really, just cut the ribbon. What happened, why did you cancel? Description: religious sensibilities.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0231par0221	No, the legal infrastructure isn't ready.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0222	Religious sensibilities are my eyes, we must obey religious sensibilities, but let's not deprive people of the breast milk bank because breast milk saves lives; and in Mauritania saves lives, and in Turkey saves lives; whether it be a mother or a mother of other creatures, the life of that child will be saved as long as she nurses her own. That's how I tell you not to tell Moritania. Let them build a breast milk bank if they want to. Didn't you go out and say: "Don't you write in the population paper?" It says, "Yes." Didn't the European Court of Human Rights condemn Turkey for having a house on this birth certificate?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0231par0223	That's different, that's different.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0224	Unless, of course, the European Court of Human Rights has lawyers inside us -- they'll convict us...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0231par0225	Did the AK PARTY put the religious household in the population?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0226	...he'll say you're wrong, don't do it... he'll say he's not... I've had enough. There used to be a lot of them on the birth certificate, and you'll remember the age-appropriate lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0232par0228	Don't remind me, they'll bring it back.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0229	There used to be a religion, and he was a writer, so why was the cult removed? The European Court of Human Rights does not want to be established, and it has a decision on this matter. Let's say you put it there, there's a gap in the birth certificate. But there are six letters in the house that your Minister of Health has asked the mothers, Mr. Hodja, six letters; let's see if you can fit Christian in here. Come on, guys, don't call me a typo, don't call me a typo, don't call me a typo.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0233par0230	No, that's not a typo.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0231	If so, say: "Excuse me, it's a typo. Christianity doesn't fit in six. We'll make it longer." But what did you do? By our warning, you have returned from this grave error, a good thing. Look, we criticize, and you turn around sometimes, it's a good thing. We don't expect you to say, "It's not a race, so thank you for showing us that you won't do it." But if you keep going on and on about it, I'm going to say it here until I give my last breath on this stand. Turn back from where you've done wrong, quietly, without objection, and we won't declare it to the world, but come out here, I swear to God, he wants to be the head of the population. If you say so, it's not proper for a physician to make this mistake here, so don't make that mistake here. Mr. President, is it 15 minutes or 10 minutes?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0234par0233	Ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0234	Well, thank you, I'll continue. Well, look, fellas, you know, in Moritania, health was bad, business was bad, so don't tell them to privatize things that are going to be done in public with your ideas, you know, when you're going to help out there. Especially if you cooperate with the public and prevent the poor Moritaniah from getting their scarce resources into someone's pockets, at least do so. Say that we have established a public-private partnership system in Turkey, so don't do it. We went to the businessmen, and we said, "Come, we'll give you a free land, and you can build a hospital here." We've been in this hospital for forty-nine years, from our objections...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0235par0237	Go to Moritania and tell them, and let them not deal with us. Don't bother here. Don't tire yourself out.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0238	Mr. President, am I out of 15 minutes?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0236par0239	I asked you from the beginning, Mr. Aytug, ten minutes...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0240	I'm up to fifteen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0236par0241	Sit down, I'll invite you again, in the name of your person, if that's the case.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0242	Okay, Mr. President, I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0236par0243	I asked you from the beginning because Mr. Aytug.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0244	Okay, you're right.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0236par0245	Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0218par0248	Dear friends, we are not the ones to tell Moritania, but you are the ones to tell Moritania. Sometimes you forget you're the government. Sometimes you forget you're the government, you criticize us, you go, you tell me. An official signed this agreement on behalf of the state of the Republic of Turkey, signed it on behalf of the government. Now, we're telling you guys, this isn't a good job. There are good things, make a deal, help Moritania. Look, democracy is memocracy, and I'm never going to go in, but we're saying don't make them do that. You're the one who's gonna do it and say it. Now, you're going to tell Moritania that we made a mistake in public-special partnership, not you. Don't give a free land to transnational forces -- even this could be Turkey. They build a hospital here, then you'll be a tenant in this hospital for 30 years. It's a very bad thing. We... once the arrow was out of the bow, the Prime Minister ordered, he said that poor man's dream, we couldn't make our voice out, at least tell him not to do it in Moritania. It's a shame, it's a sin for the Moritanians. Then, tell Moritania we've made another mistake. We called in the transnational forces, we wanted them to invest, but we guaranteed the debt they'd get from their financial resources. So if this company goes down, all the debts will be paid by our treasure. God knows what awaits us, you tell Moritanya not to make that mistake. Because you say you're poorer than we are. Then tell me, if you're going to pass a health-related bill, discuss it on your health commission. We've seen that no law is good without discussion in the health commission, we've discussed the public-private partnership law in Plan and Budget, we bypassed the Health Commission, we've seen the damage, you tell them not to do it. And then, if you're going to make these deals, don't do it by private law, so don't bypass the laws of your own state, the state of Moritania; if you're going to make a tender, don't take it out on the Public Contracts Act and the State Contraction Act, if you do it out, someone will get the benefit of it, don't do it, and it'll do you very serious harm. You know that 2nd article? You can have them all in there. Your government, your duty. You know how you love Moritania? Don't deny them that favor. Tell them there's no such thing as an old man and a forced commercial service to hospitals. Don't privatize health. Take health as a public duty. Look, we've privatized health, no one is pleased, so tell them not to live in Moritania. When we're doing mandatory services here, we actually have them in hospitals -- they have them in their notes, in their reports -- not in hospitals -- to build hotels, to build shopping malls near hospitals, to make money out of parking lots, and we're thinking about doing it every step we take -- look at them, go, review the minutes, all of them, so don't make Moritania look like they're my comments -- so don't make them do it -- so don't make Morit make Moritania take advantage of their country in a very comfortable way. Don't exploit your country, we made a mistake, we exploited our country, you tell them not to exploit it. Look, if you're gonna do something, tell them to do it properly. Take the contract and don't give it to the pursers like in the public-private partnership hospitals, so don't go with the pursers and hand it over to another subcontractor, because we've done this in the past, we've done this in the past, let's not do it again; especially if the debt was made with the exchange rate, don't make it a loan with an index, like we did in the past, but it's not a good thing to go with the currency system, so tell them, let's protect them, let's protect them, let's save their economy, and let's save them, and let the baby rate of their death rate go up, and let's give them a little bit less credit, and let's give them a little bit more credit. And then you tell them that we get VAT from the bread, but we don't get any tax or tax stamps from these city hospitals, so don't do that, there's an orphan's right there. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0237par0255	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Moritania and the Court of Health and Medical Sciences to ratify the Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used : 210 [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Mine Leuk White So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government, which is ranked 10th, and with the Foreign Affairs Commission Report, that the Security Co-operation Agreement between the government of the Islamic Republic of Moritania is in order. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 357 rows. Aykan Erdemir has been asked to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, 20 minutes, let's take a tour of the horizon to see what Turkey's contribution might be when it comes to security cooperation in Moritania. You know, the issue of security is now being examined from two different frames around the world. The old understanding was a state-security-based approach. The new understanding is the concept of integrity security that incorporates human safety into the framework. Is this security agreement that Turkey's Minister of Interior, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, attempted during the period of human safety, intended for a co-operation based on human safety, or is it intended for a state security-based cooperation? In other words, let's see if Turkey's cooperation with Moritania is a security that will improve its integrity, human security, human basic rights and freedoms. First of all, it is important to say that unfortunately, Mr. Minister Turkey was not a good minister at the point of human safety. At the point of basic rights and freedoms, there was not a very positive picture at the point of human rights. There have been numerous violations of human rights and freedoms in our country at the time, there have been disproportionate use of force, and unfortunately from this inopportune use of force to students and professors at the university, employees at the factory, and officers asking for their rights in the squares, many people have been hurt and injured. Let's take a look at Moritania. Moritania, I know this is an important country for the Justice and Development Party, a country that can be inspired in many ways.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0239par0282	Congressmans, please take your seats.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0283	Let us consider the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of Moritania. He says...
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0240par0284	Mr. President, we can't listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0285	Mr. Veli Agha can't hear. Let us consider the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of Moritania. Perhaps Moritania is an inspiration to you these days, when you are so intent on discussing the first four articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. It says: "Islam must be the religion of the people and the state. " Look, we're looking at reports of international organisations, what does it say about Moritania? It says that there is no freedom of faith, an over-centralized Islamic republic. It's such a republic that the AKP government is collaborating with, that there's a clause in its laws: it's out of citizenship, it's out of citizenship. It's an unprecedented law in the world. Aside from the lack of freedom of faith, when people make a choice at the point of freedom of faith, they don't just lose their rights, their rights, they lose their citizenship, and there is no doubt that many fundamental rights and freedom violations that I will soon count are being held within the authority and responsibility of the Minister of Moritania, which Mr. Idris Naim Şahin has hosted, hosted, in a sense, in Ankara. (x) 357 S. Add Numbered Basmak to the report. Look what's going on, let's look at this from the Amnesty International reports. According to Amnesty International in Moritania, torture has been constantly systematic and institutionalized; a country in which the legal process has been completely disregarded, without fair trial, under the conditions of non-human imprisonment. Perhaps Moritania has already reached the point where Mr. Idris Naim Şahin was trying to bring Turkey slowly to its destination. It's also said in the Amnesty International reports: "There are Moritanians who suffer from long-term trial procedures, even though the government doesn't wear them." Sometimes when I'm reading reports on Moritania, I'm wondering if I have the wrong report or I'm reading a report on Turkey. Because unfortunately, today, torture has re-spoiled in Turkey, and there have been trials where the legal process has been completely ignored; there are many negative examples of independent judiciary and fair trial, there are many negative examples of non-human imprisonment, and I know that you can't object now because Mr. Veli Ağbaba and Mr. Free Private are here. They offered you rights and freedom violations in a brick-sized prison, prisons, and showed us what an embarrassment Turkey's prisons have become during the AKP's rule, without any doubt. My fear is that if a security co-operation agreement signed with the vision of Mr. İdris Naim Şahin will be implemented in the Turkish model Moritania prisons, then woe to those Moritanian prisoners, the prisoners. If the vision of Idris Naim Şahin and the understanding of meeting and demonstration freedoms in Turkey will prevail in Moritania, then woe to those Moritanian demonstrators, citizens, protesters! Because the problem is that the country that Moritania prefers to cooperate at the point of police training is a country that boasts that pepper spray is organic. The country that Moritania prefers to co-operate at the point of police training is a country that is brutal, quite ruthless, despite its citizens who exercise its most basic democratic rights. My concern is that if we are to share this vision in the field of security cooperation with Moritania, I am concerned that if we are to rule the institutions and institutions of Moritania, including the Ministry of Moritania and the police of Moritania, then Moritania is at the bottom of all human rights reports today, I am concerned about what will be the lower point. I'd like to ask: Will Turkey give Moritania any education in human rights if it comes to human safety-based understanding when it comes to security cooperation? Will communication with citizens and Interior Ministry employees give an education at the point of more democratic, more modern, more humane communication and interaction, or will only suppression, arrest, intimidation policies be dominated in Mauritania, as in Turkey? So, the answer to that question -- and I hope our current Home Secretary makes a statement about it -- will be a very important point in not only Moritania, but also in Turkey's human rights report card. Let's not forget that. If you think that these concerns are inappropriate, you can see that they are not. I just tried to make it short. Let's take a look at a Bahrain. Let's take a look at the basic ration of rights and freedoms of Bahrain, which Turkey is collaborating with again in the field of defence. The government and Foreign Minister Mr Ahmet Davutoglu have an important claim, says that wherever democracy and freedoms are demanded in North Africa, the Middle East with Arab Spring, we as the Republic of Turkey are behind democracy and freedom as an example of this. Today, when we take a look at Arab Spring, we look at the process called Arab Spring, although it is peaceful, we see that Bahrain has the most effective and intensive democratic opposition. About 90 per cent of the population has risen up against the monarchy, which rules the country with a mandate, crushing it under a guardianship. For more than two years, they have demanded the most basic democratic rights, free elections, the right to form a political party, the right to a meeting and demonstration, the free press. If Mr. Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu is sincere in his view that he is behind democracy, I believe that the Republic of Turkey should be with the people who are beaten on the streets every day in Bahrain, who eat gas, are killed by rubber bullets, who are victims of long-term imprisonment. But I'm looking, and I can't see it. So, what do I see when I look at Bahrain? I see armored vehicles exported by Turkey, mass control vehicles exported by Turkey and used by police. Look, the Parliament of the European Union, the European Parliament, when it comes to Bahrain, has made an important decision and has said that when it comes to human rights violations in Bahreyn, the European Union member states should not export weapons, mass control tools, technological instruments to Bahrain, the Internet. Here, the European Union, which we are trying to become a member of, is a country in which the Republic of Turkey is collaborating in defence and security every year, while it sees this grave painting in Bahrain, and tries to ban all kinds of weapons and mass control exports to Bahrain. Now, I'd like to ask you: you're behind a general who came with a coup in Moritania and got himself elected President.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0241par0296	Who said that? You play it yourself and say it yourself. After the 60s, we know what Moritaniah was going through. He saw 16 blows after the French colony. It's not the AK PARTY that supports the coups, it's you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0297	You are behind a monarchy that crushes 95% of Bahrain. You claim to be behind democratic forces in Syria. I'll explain to you why it's like this: Do you know why you're not behind democracy in Bahrain, because in Bahrain, the broad masses who want democracy in the streets -- it doesn't matter from our point of view, we're looking at 72 nations with an evil eye, but I know it's important for you -- it's not Sunni, Shii... Shut up!
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0242par0299	You stand behind Esed and teach us a lesson in democracy.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0300	...unfortunately, the Republic of Turkey stands behind the Sunni monarchy because it is Shiite who wants democracy in Bahrain. This is indeed an unforgivable double standard for Turkey's foreign policy, an unforgivable blunder in terms of the Turkish Republic's foreign policy. Because when it comes to democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms, the Republic of Turkey must see neither religion nor faith.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0243par0301	The public knows exactly which political party is next to the coups, and they answer you in every election.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0302	Because human rights are the rights of every human being. Human rights are only the rights of the Sunnis, the rights of the Shiites, the rights of Muslims alone, and a whole rights that cannot be reduced or suspended in the form of Christians; such as the Constitution of Mauritania, Islam must be the religion of the people and the state. As in the laws of Mauritania, all rights that cannot be imposed should also be taken out of the rights of the people and the state. That's why we say as the Republican People's Party: Come, if we look at the world with one eye when democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms are involved, if we're going to look at all humanity with one eye, if we're going to embrace all humanity, if all human suffering, all human rights and freedom demands are equal to us, then we have to give up this double standard; then we shouldn't be on the side of the people who crush the masses with their armoured vehicles in another country, while they're at the side of democratic opposition in one country. Look, the only armored vehicles that are exported today in Bahrain are not crushing people who are using democratic demonstration rights. Unfortunately, there are tanks next to the armored vehicles that Turkey exports. Do you know where those tanks came from? He came from Saudi Arabia. Today, in the streets of Bahrain, under the command of Saudi Arabia's officers, tanks crush, kill, lock up, torture, and unfortunately, we stand by in the streets of Bahrain, the right to free elections, meetings and demonstrations, independent judiciary and free press.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0244par0305	What is happening in Syria?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0306	In Syria, we are behind whoever wants freedom and democracy in Bahrain, and in Moritanya, but unfortunately we are behind freedom and democracy in Syria. You can say that, but when you come to Mauritania and Bahrain, democracy stops breathing. When it comes to democracy, unfortunately, you don't run marathons, you run 100 meters. Democracy is a marathon, democracy is a form of governance that we must demand for all the countries of the world, for all the people of the world, for all the oppressed people of the world. If we want democracy in both Kuwait and Bahrain, both in Saudi Arabia and in Qatar, let's be sincere, let's all ask for it, but if we look the other way and ignore it while Saudi Arabia tanks crush the masses in Bahrain, then there's a problem if we line up our armored vehicles that were exported by Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0245par0308	Send in a ten-man delegation. Why don't you send it?
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0238par0309	We're in Bahrain, we're in Qatar, we're in Kuwait. We know that when you go to Bahrain, you only meet the oppressed rulers, but the Republican People's Party is determined not only in the Middle East and North Africa, but in walking with those who want democracy and struggle for rights and freedom throughout the world. Now, let's go back to Moritania. The report card for Moritania is open. This does not mean that Turkey should cease its cooperation with Moritania. We know that democracy is a long-term process and Turkey's contribution to Moritania is crucial in this process. When it comes to human rights education, the rule of law, when it comes to women's equality, when it comes to fighting human trafficking, when it comes to women's circumcision, there are things that the Turkish person can give to Moritania when it comes to child slavery, but the main problem here is that if Turkey is to share this democracy, rights and freedoms mission with the republic's ancient tradition, there could be significant benefits from its union. But if Turkey, based on its civilian custody of the last decade, is going to cooperate based on the vision of rights and freedoms of Mr. Idris Naim Şahin (i.e. the Ministry of Internal Affairs), based on the broken notes in his report card, if it's going to be nearsighted in a state-based security, then I believe that if Moritania goes its way, it would be much better if it didn't get any help from Turkey. I embrace every man who strives for right and freedom in Moritania, and salute the great assembly with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0246par0314	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONSIDERING OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF CONTROLATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY AND THE CONTROL OF THE CONTROLATION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION The approval of the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, which was signed in Ankara on February 15, 2012. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote between the Turkish Republic's Government and the government of the Islamic Republic of Moritania that the Security Co-operation Agreement is in order: [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Mine Leuk White So the bill is accepted and legalized.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0247par0339	No electronic voting outputs, no law passed.
tbmm-2013-03-19sit04spe0246par0340	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
