tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about security issues in Denizli. By the way, dear lawmakers, we'd better stop humming in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0002par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the security issue in Denizli. I hereby salute the grand jury. Before Prime Minister Denizli visits our province, the mayor of the National Security Directorate is wanted by the National Movement Party and the mayor of Milliyetci Movement Party in Kale district. As part of security measures, the phone call said that the Prime Minister's arrival in Denizli was intended to negotiate with our friends. In other words, that's how it was explained. Amenna, if there is a threat to the MPP, but they have nothing to do with the mayor and the mayor. I don't know what's causing it. It was said that the mayor of Kale was not going to a rally in Tavas County, that he would be responsible for the events that might otherwise happen. What an indecency! Is the Ministry of Interior incapable of protecting Mr. Prime Minister, which is the expression used to the mayor of the MPP? He's being framed, told directly to his face. Who's giving orders, the Home Secretary? The Prime Minister will come, and there will be an attack on you when he arrives. But what does the mayor of the neighbouring district have to do with the Prime Minister's arrival? Also, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey is not the Prime Minister of the AKP. That's how shallow the AKP is. Can you imagine, in Ankara, there were people who were taken near the Prime Minister by crossing the security barriers, who couldn't fit the Prime Minister into the rally because of my country and nationalist brothers? Who were they? Have you detected it? Who were these crooks? Have you found out yet? When it comes to Kale Mayor, it's a question of accountability. Has this incident been asked to the governor's office? Has it been investigated by the Ministry? He had a security helicopter on him when the county courthouse was closed. In this district, the AKP's mayors made a signed statement saying, "We have contributed to the opening of the school that does not exist." They don't tell the citizens of the castle the truth. I don't know if the D.A. has filed an investigation for perjury. I want to know if there's a specific intention. We need to be investigated and informed. It occurs to you that the AKP in the sea is trying to implicate the MPP? In Ankara, you'll say you're a countryman, a brother of the MHP, you'll say you don't know who he is, you'll stick him to the bottom of the Prime Minister at the rally, or you won't make any official statements about who they are! Look, the city of Kale of MHP has no debts, go to him with a contract, get it from DMO. We say, "Get it from there, but there's still an obstacle being taken out." It's something that AKP people are handing out paper because we built a school that isn't even in Kale district. I don't want to name names, but politics isn't that cheap. They write and distribute lies, and then say, "Do not believe lies." The other thing is, if the Minister were here, I wish I'd told you. What do citizens want in the sea, and what do they ask? If there is a legal application, let it be solved on the building permit, on the building permit. How do you solve it? It comes out with a beard, so let's say someone's investing money in the foreign currency shop down the block, or it's deposited in the various incomes, and the building license or building permit is being solved. We should've asked if Mr. Secretary was here. Are they being investigated? Is that a thing? I have to ask, what are these, what aren't? I'd like to understand that if Prime Minister Denizli had been told to the mayor and the mayor of the DP when he arrived, you would have said: "There is a problem in your security, there is a danger in your life. You could have called them and said something like that. Can't the Prime Minister's safety be provided by the great Denizli, the great Turkey, the entire Ministry of Interior? I pay my respects to the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second non-responsive statement is from Mr. Idris Baluken, who asked to speak about the wall in Ceylanpınar district of Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to the walls of shame on the borders of Rojava, and I salute your delegation. For a long time, walls of shame have been built between Nusaybin-Kamişlı, Serekaniye-Ceylanpınar, Afrin-Kilis and Şenyurt-Derbyek. Despite the fact that both Turkey's Syrian policy and all wrongs in Rojava's policy have surfaced so far, we see a new mistake, a new page of shame, built today, unfortunately. First of all, as the Kurdish people, as the people of Turkey, we will never accept the process of building these walls of shame, and we will never allow these walls to be built because we have been fighting to destroy the walls of shame that have been built among the peoples, between languages, between the faiths for hundreds of years. Now that we've come to an important intersection about the process that's going on inside, we'll never allow those who haven't washed the walls of denial in their own head, who haven't washed the forbidden walls, to build a wall again among our people, because those who carry this denial and the forbidden wall in their heads have been bleeding on this land for hundreds of years. We have expressed the spirit of this process over and over again from this platform, and we have historically stated that a thousand-year-old Turkish-Kurdish alliance is the spirit of this solution process of Turkey's alliance with the Kurds. Now the walls are the mindset of the Turkish-Kurdish conflict, which will last for thousands of years. So we will fulfill our historical responsibility to these walls that will trigger such a fight, our responsibility to peace, to brotherhood, to freedom. Look, wherever these walls are built between the borders of the world, these walls of shame have been built, they've brought hundreds of years of wars, they've lived, they've turned to blood again. The nearest example is the walls built on the Israeli-Palestinian border. Again, the shame carried by the Berlin Wall was a great success after hundreds of years of struggle to eliminate mankind. With practice of the wall of shame condemned in the history of mankind, Turkey has no reason to build walls like this on the border of Rojava. All the reasons the Home Secretary has given the AKP officials about these walls are empty, meaningless. These walls have only one goal: to separate the people who live in the region, especially Kurds. We want to emphasize again that if you try to build a wall among the people at a time when boundaries are meaningless and boundaries are lifted, the consequences will be very severe. Those borders are used to make Al-Qaeda and Al-Nusra gangs as the inn that's been on its way to this day. Those gangs who passed by and crossed the border showed recklessness that would slaughter Kurds there, give Kurds their lives, their property, their integrity. With a practice like this at the border, we now find building a more dangerous search for the walls of shame to be extremely dangerous for both Turkey and the peace of the region. From the beginning, what you had to do with Rojava was remove the blockade and the embargo that was applied to Rojava. If he dies today in Afrin, in Kobani, because he can't find food in Serekaniya, because he can't find medicine, because he can't find drugs, because he doesn't have vaccines, your policies against Rojava are very important. We remind you of what the Prime Minister said about the walls of Gaza, the walls of racism, the walls of shame. I remind you of all the talks made by AKP officials regarding the embargo against Gaza. In Gaza, you can't approach the embargo separately, apart from the wall; in Rojava, you can't approach the embargo separately, apart from the wall. If you take that approach, you'll lose all credibility. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As the Peace and Democracy Party, on November 7th, we will present a massive mass action and event against these walls of shame with our people. Again, we invite you to give up this wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Kars MP Ahmet Arslan, who asked to be spoken on behalf of Kars. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge to honor the 93rd Anniversary of Salvation by Kars. On this occasion, I salute you all. Kars, on October 30, 1920, took his first victory against the enemy by Kazim Karabekir and set an example for other provinces in his struggle for salvation in the Salvation War, and, especially when we look back on our history, Kars has prepared a good infrastructure for the Turks to establish love in Anatolia, before the Sultan Alparslan entered Anatolia. So in 1064, Sultan Alparslan enters from Kars to Anatolia, making the Menuchehr Mosque in 1072. I'm telling you all this for this: Kars has a lot of values in terms of his past, both faith tourism and culture tourism. There are 10,000-year-old paintings of rock in the paper. Once again, Kars has the Seljuk's first fortress in 1153 and is standing upright today. Perhaps Kars, in another sense, has martyred around 1.5 million Turks in Kars, and in the near future, 90,000 of our people in Sarıkamis went to be martyrs for their homeland, for their country's sake. Speaking of Abul Hasan Harakani, it is not right to pass without saying his words: "If anyone comes to this door, give his bread and water; do not ask his name, his religion; for all who are worthy to carry a soul in the presence of the Almighty are worthy of eating bread at the table of Abul Hassan. " Of course we're coming today. Today, we also need to do some things in our day, depending on the history that Kars will be especially proud of. What do we do for this? We make divided roads for this, we build hospitals for this, so we build dams to further develop Kars, which is the agricultural and livestock center, and we want to return from the dams to the plantery specifically -- so we're doing urban transformations for this, so we've put in the service of a magnificent airport worthy of Kars. We've put in service, and our people are seeing it today. Another thing, Kars, the county waiting for the border. Of course, you have to be the province waiting for the border, you have to be the province of Serhat, but you have to take advantage of that. Kars is building a major logistical centre to benefit from this feature, and the Republic of Turkey is building the Baku-Tiflis-Kars Railway Project, which is suitable for Kars, which is suitable for Turkey, so that it may benefit from its borders in the region of Turkey. Of course, the Baku-Tiflis-Kars Railway Project is an important link to the iron silk road, a project that makes the railway from London to Beijing uninterrupted. Alone? No, the Marmaray Project is very meaningful, and the Marmaray Project is the project of the century, the dream project. Yesterday, with the labor of many, with the contribution of the republic, he entered the service as a dream project, which was fitting for the Turkish people, after the 90th anniversary of its establishment, October 29, 1923. Who doesn't? Ecdad has contributed; Sultan Abdulmecit had a contribution in 1860, where he imagined it a hundred and fifty-three years ago, and Sultan Abdulhamit had a contribution. The government before the EC PARTY has contributed to the preparation process, but the fact remains that the AK PARTY has fulfilled Marmaray, which had been a dream for the past nine years from 2004 to 2013. I know very well how much the Prime Minister cares and how much he contributes to that project as a general manager six years ago. They really followed the project by putting the night into the day. Our governments supported us, Congress supported us. Binali Yıldırım slept with the project day and night. Of course, I had a lot of colleagues with me, and they worked very hard on this project, and I'm happy to say that this project was given to the Republic of Turkey, our people, and the world on the 90th anniversary of the republic. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. lion. According to the 60th article, I will fulfill the very brief demands of words. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. The group's concert was scheduled to take place at the Cadet Cemil Topezlu Open Air Theatre (Preparation) three days ago by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. The decision sent to Group Comment was given a reason for divisive, destructive activities. We are concerned that this decision will set an example for all similar events, regardless of what sources the IBB officials base it on. The task of power is to prevent such arbitrary practices. These practices show how democratic the AKP is in the hands of our republic, which we celebrated its 90th anniversary. The AKP remains only a Democrat to itself. Long live the democratic Republic of Turkey! Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm celebrating Republic Day, the greatest national holiday of our people. I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, who founded our republic, which we all have in common, with respect, gratitude, and mercy. The Republic of Turkey, which turned its course towards modern civilization 90 years ago, will never be brought to darkness again. Our people gave the best answer to those who took advantage of religion to use the high feelings of the people on the streets yesterday. Millions of people have celebrated their own holiday and Republic Day on every street in Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0011par0071	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I celebrate the Republic Day of all our citizens. Mr. President, there is a Yeniköy in Menderes district of İzmir, but the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism allows for an unimaginable license to this area, stone furnaces, grave furnaces. These quarries and gravel furnaces, built just below Newköy, produce a great deal of pollution. They work until morning every day, and they're also loaded with 50 tons, 60 tons of big truck trucks, and they work 24 hours a day. I'm warning the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Forestry once again. I'm inviting you not to give licenses to places like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0013par0077	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0014par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. The furnaces have not been burning for a long time -- because of the cold weather -- at the Üsküdar Trade High School. In this sense, I would like the Ministry of National Education to deal with the problem of fuel in all schools in Skopjedar County, primarily because of the cooling of the weather. The second issue is that the Ataturk Memorial, located in Şemsipaşa district of Skopjedar, is lit up until last year, and is now left in the dark. I demand that this matter be dealt with immediately. The third problem is that the HAVA-HIS has decided to strike a legal strike on Turkish Airlines, but due to the continuation of the legal strike, the Airways Anonymous Corporation is acting because of the strike. He's filed a lawsuit to determine and prevent bullying. Air-Business has won the case, but a court order cannot be carried out. What kind of procedure is the ministry going to make? I demand that this court order be obeyed.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0015par0083	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0016par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Ardanuk district of Artvin Province is experiencing major transportation problems. One is that the 60km road between Ardanuk and Ardahan began in 1952 and still did not complete 5km. This road needs to be completed immediately, with five miles left. Again, the road between Ardanuç and Occult is also 12 miles [46 km] in stabilisation; this needs to be completed. Since the Ardanuch-Erzurum connection is not connected, the people are going over to Erzurum, over Artvin, extending the road by 40km. A link through the dam will also eliminate this problem of citizens. Joseph is in trouble with the dams, with the HESSs of the Bertans, with the mines of Artvin, with the destruction of the environment. There's a hospital in Artvin County that doesn't serve oncology. Plenty of dams, little investments. Once again, I warn you that the AKP must deal with the problems of our citizens in Artvin, not only with their votes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0018par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate you on the 93rd anniversary of our veteran's escape from enemy occupation. Of course, we've already offered our Parliament a law proposal to restore the title of veteranship given by Sultan Abdulmecit in 1855, but the AKP government has not yet evaluated our proposal for this matter. I'm speaking from here to our esteemed Kars MP friends in Congress. We have Kars, Ardahan, Iğdır Promotion Days coming up on November 7th, 10th. I invite the esteemed members of our House to join us, and until then, come, let's all pass this through the House and give the title of veteran Kars.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Following privatisation, under the Law of State Officers No. 657 assigned to public institutions, the Constitution of the 98th century is in order to investigate the problems faced by employees known as 4/C, and to take the necessary measures. and 104-105 of the Civil Code. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened. 02.04.2012 [[Elizipt]] [[Lug]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Antalya]] 10) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Yozgat]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 20) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] The corruption of public administration in our country is particularly evident within the personnel system. Law No. 657, 4/A, 4/B, 4/C are staffed, contractual and temporary staffed, so it reveals a multi-headed and complex employment structure in the public. There are public officials within the same institution who do the same work but whose legal legislation is different because their salaries, pension rights, job guarantees, social and autonomy rights are different. Of the most limited members of the public, no doubt, are temporary staff, who are employed under Article 657 4/C, and whose number is about 110,000. The employees employed in this area are not entitled to annual leave of absence, right to transfer, family benefits, overtime fees, severance pay, and notice compensation and job security, while their salaries are also extremely low. However, the decision of the Council of Ministers, which was published in the Official Gazette on February 4, 2010, was applied to different applications between the 4/C (c) people, and the injustice that exists has been deepened further. The relevant decision presented new rights for part of public duties employed at 4/C status, while the Council of Ministers' decision also revealed a major human rights violation of employment from workers who are unemployed and will remain unemployed only due to privatisation. In June 2011, it was agreed that the staff working under contract in the public office would be transferred to the staff, while the 4/C personnel being kept outside the scope was not a fair course. The fact that four-C personnel working in public who have the right to become members of public officials' unions and therefore should be accepted as public officials have not been put into office has once again caused them to be victimised. Tens of thousands of staff and families, temporarily employed under Article 4/C of Law No. 657, are hoping to resolve their problems with the order of the Council of Ministers and the decision to make. Employee employment at 4/C status must be limited, staffed in primary and continuous services, with different decisions, special payments to institutions removed, the salaries of all 4/C personnel must be determined in proportion to the salaries of exemployees, all 4/C personnel must be equal to the rights of the institution, regardless of the difference. In addition, 4/C personnel should also be provided with benefits, overtime fees should be paid, relocated due to the co-existence of staff employed in this status and begin military return. Legal legislation shall be implemented on personnel employed at 4/C status, including tasks definitions, registrations and tariffs created by executives and supervisors. 4/C personnel must be compensated for seniority and reporting compensations, taken advantage of the return capital and allowed to be recruited. In order to address the victims of 4/C personnel and make necessary improvements, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104-105 of the Constitution and Civil Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to address the destruction and social impacts created by HES plants on the Seyhan River of Adana province and to determine solutions to our natural environment and human beings, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under the grounds provided under Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Kastamon]] [[Ankara]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 12) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Scholarship]] 17) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Samsun]] In some districts of Adana Province, HESs, land, water and forest are still being built on water resources, exposing our existence to irreparable destruction. Since 21/8/2010, the Sky River, one or several of the HESs on the river, which is one of the main branches of the Seyhan River, is completely dry. The bridge fell 20 meters from the location of the castle in the village of Kuzan's Ergenümümlı, where HES was located. Again, in the same area, the village of Girlsville, the Husemli settlement, has been torn apart by a landslide. The weekend of the construction of the bridge HES is stored in the north side of the hill of Ak husband, in the inside of the Skysu River. Apart from what the river takes along the left coast, the river is 50x30 metres in diameter, 1,000 meters in length, and it continues to spill. Due to the ongoing HESs at Seyhan River and the roads leading to them, the road was expanded within 10km of the Kozan-Kyzan-Gyseye road between Kösrelik and Düzyretırt, while the giant rock blocks left uncontrollably in the forestland were broken into hundreds of thousands of trees within a mile [2 km] until they landed on the creek or on Seyhan. In October 2011, Soner Demir of the village of Kozan Marangateli lost his sons (Nafi Demir 13 years old, Zafer Demir 18 years old) when he was working with his sons at Gökdere River. The bodies of the young ones were found approximately three miles down the road 24 hours later. On 16 March 2012, along with the body of Shamil Daşçı who fell from the construction of Heskıl Daşçı, Friday Ali Değirmenci, Eyüp Altuntaş, Erkan Yekan, Veli Damakmaz, Erdal Demirelli, Latif Değirmenci, Mehmet Yilmat, Hasan Bolat, Necmettin Karayiğit, Selahtin Aral were all 13 victims during construction of HES. In reports 16/6/2009 by the Ministry of the Environment and Forest and 4368-35498 about river-type HESs, particularly water transport tunnels, water transmission channels and the randomly leaving of curved terrains, there are major disruptions in the forest areas, streams filling in and affecting the water flow regime and quality. The studies show that there is pollution due to the lack of necessary measures, lack of biological water to be left on the creek bed at the operating facilities, no fish crossings have been made or built properly." It's called. The Ethics Administration's 20 years old and ATA Construction's 3 years of work is not possible here, otherwise the dam becomes a landslide, and from the left coast is 1480 metres [1480 m] of Henis Mountain, Karasivri, Yellibelen, Redjuccan positions, and on the right-hand coast, the Karahan village Keçeli settlement is very open and clear, with the naked eye, and there have been actions that have been under way for hundreds of years. As a result of construction activities in this region, the mountains mentioned will land on Seyhan." The construction of HES in the region must be investigated by setting up a parliamentary research commission in light of this information, to address these problems, and to take the necessary precautions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask and ask for the opening of parliamentary research as required by Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code 98 of the Constitution, and Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures to be taken in the field of occupational health and safety by investigating the deaths of workers at workplaces in the public and private sector. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Adana]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] In Turkey, the lack of technical safety control mechanisms or inadequateness of workplaces is costing hundreds of employees each year. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security data, 706,608 work accidents occurred in Turkey from 2002 to October 2011, while 15,961 workers lost their lives while 10,297 workers lost their jobs. Again, a total of 499 workers were killed in business accidents as of October 2011-December 2011, and 18,476 workers were injured in a work accident, according to the latest official data from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Again, the number of occupational accidents caused by these months totalled 7,053 in October, 5,596 in November and 6,326 in December. As of October 2011-December 2011, the number of business accidents occurred in mining and quarrying institutions totalled 3,636 and 8.997 in manufacturing. Since the government does not create a serious control mechanism, none of the arrangements for occupational health and job safety are taken into account by business owners. Studies, however, show that appropriate policies can prevent business accidents. Investors refuse to spare a penny of their earnings for the health and safety of workers. The lack of supervision in the field of labour health and safety, the lack of sanctions, the insensitivity of responsible and concerned are causing these accidents to increase. The 2011 Progress Report of Turkey also stressed that the framework directive for business health and safety has not yet been transferred to national legislation and has not yet been made significant progress. In many fatal workplace accidents, the implementation of legislation remains a problem. Despite all warnings and mass labor deaths, the government has yet to have a serious policy on this issue. Even if the arrangements are made, the biggest problem is in practice. After death, symbolic punishments at work do not solve problems. A serious and comprehensive policy is committed to preventing accidents in the workplace. Some studies say that Turkey is third in the world in business accidents, while Europe is number 1 in the third. Between 2007-2012, 500 workers were killed in accidents in Tuzla shipyards alone. Most of the business accidents have resulted in severe injuries, injury, and death. It would be fair to say that business accidents in Turkey have turned into mass murders. 30 workers were killed in an accident at a mine in Zonguldak. Some of their bodies haven't been dug up yet. 23 workers were killed in the explosion in Davutpaşa, 10 workers in the dam construction in Adana Kozan, 11 workers in the fire in the construction of the Istanbul Esenyurt AVM. Without further loss of life, the standards of workers' healthy living environments, health clinics, rest and social activities halls must be made available under the health and work safety of workers. That's why we feel it is necessary to open a congressional investigation. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's a review of the interim presidency of the Public Economic Initiative Commission, and I'm going to make you read it and present it to your knowledge: Subject: Commission Presidential Court Selection Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The People's Economic Initiative Commission, the President, the Vice President, the Speaker and the Clerk for the election is 22/10/2013 Tuesday at 17 p.m. As a result of the draft of 24 ballots collected and used at 00, they were elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk in accordance with Article 24 of the Civil Charter, with the votes shown against members whose names and last names are written below. However, all representatives of the elected Commission's Presidential Court have been selected from one party. According to Articles 95 of our Constitution, Articles 1 and 2, "The Grand National Assembly of Turkey conducts its work according to its provisions. Adjudication provisions are organised on the road that will allow political parties to participate in all of parliament's activities by the number of members. Political party groups consist of at least 20 members." It's called. According to this ruling, members who will represent opposition parties in any case in the Presidential Court must be elected to one of the presidents, vice presidents, or Speakers. Thus, the one-party Presidential Court must be chosen in this framework. It's presented with respect. President Hasan Fehmi Kinay Kütahya MP 20 votes Vice President Ziver Özdemir Batman MP 19 votes Speaker: Şenol Gürşan Kırklareli MP 20 votes Clerk: Faruk Septioğlu Elaziğ MP 20 votes It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A senior parliamentary delegation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is scheduled to participate in the "Social and Unional Rights" run by the European Parliament (EP) Anti-Accession Action Unit in Strasbourg on 20 November 2013. The delegation's visit to Strasbourg is presented to the General Assembly under Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament will hold a seminar on "Young and Education in the Balkans" in Brussels, Belgium, on 6-7 November 2013. The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (30/10/2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 1 October 2013, it was suggested that the Council's motion to investigate the economic and social security issues in Şanlıurfa due to the Syrian crisis and asylum seekers, given by Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici and his friends, be read in the same joint presentations Wednesday (30/10/2013), and that the talks be held in the same historic joint joint session, in order to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly of Turkey. The first statement in favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is from Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0020par0324	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on the recommendation of our group. I hereby salute your high council. Precious lawmakers continue to influence the entire Middle East region, especially Turkey, with social, political, economic, and most importantly, in the civil war in Syria since March 2011. As a result of its policies, the government has actually become part of this dirty and burning war, which is not directly related to them. The government continues to pour gasoline into this fire with dirty relations, while the government, on the other hand, shouts, "There is a fire! There is a fire!" The government, which has contributed to the deepening of this crisis, has contributed to its dark relations with the kind of support it has for these relations, and is making Turkey and the Syrian people pay for the consequences. Dear lawmakers, the fire burns where it fell in the first place. Because of this war in Syria, some 5 million people in Syria had to leave their homes. More than 2 million people, more than half of whom were children, were forced to take refuge in other countries, including Turkey. In light of the AFAD and Foreign Ministry's statements, the number of refugees sheltered in Turkey is more than 500,000. In fact, some sources say that this number is much greater. 200,000 of the refugees who came to Turkey remain in camps, while the remaining refugees remain where and how they are based solely on estimates. You know, these walls, which we've recently called the wall of shame, which have been condemned by its specimens in the world, are the last ones to be built between Rojava (Turkish) and Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister mentioned the one in Gaza called the wall of shame. So, I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, what is this wall you're building? This wall you're building is a wall of shame. The AKP government, which is bankrupt in foreign policy, has really linked its hope to Al Qaeda and Al Nusra gangs. Al-Qaeda and Al-Nusra gangs... at first, you know, their greatest example was from Reyhan. These attacks, which resulted in the deaths of 2-3 people a week or so in the case of the Susan AKP government against Al Qaeda gangs, which have claimed full and clear responsibility for the attack, have to go out and put their hats in front of them if they are actually doing so today. If the Kurdish youth Idris Akgül, who was killed by Al-Qaeda and Al-Qaeda gangs, were killed by the Assad forces, you would be in this Parliament today, but for some reason, the Al-Qaeda people who killed him, when he was a Kurdish teenager, you shut up. Here is where your reality is revealed, where your true policy is revealed. We say this clearly: the Middle East will be reshaped. In the Middle East, the Kurds of Rojava will live on one side of us, and on the other, you have to be neighbors with what we call the south Kurds, Barzani and Talabani. You will also have to be a neighbour to the Kurds in what we call the Persian Kurdistan. Then we have to sit down and think, we have to have a good conversation with the Kurds. Kurds have never made different demands, only showed resistance to the construction of a democratic republic. Therefore, we must warn the AKP government again. It is imperative that the AKP government review its foreign policies against Kurds in particular. No matter where you look at it, the Kurds, who are neighbours on our three sides, should not be overlooked as they struggle to live in a free Middle East. Yes, Kurdish people will continue their search for freedom in all four parts. Neither the AKP will be able to prevent it, nor the outside forces will be able to prevent it. The Kurdish people and Kurdish people, who have the greatest will in the Middle East, sought freedom, stepped in. That's how they should know. Again, in this regard, after the Reyhan attack, the great loss occurred in Şanlıurfa. In this regard, the greatest loss since the Reyhan attack took place in Urbana, in the district of Ceylanpinar, Şanlıurfa, five of the deaths took place in Akçakale. On October 2, 2012, three children lost their lives because of a shell that fell to Akchakale. Again, in the last July, the bullet that struck 17-year-old Mahsum Ertuğrul, in Ceylanınar, caused his chest to die. Mehmet Gündüz, who suffered a severe head injury on 16 July, lost his life in a week's war on life. Again, on July 28th, the mortar overstepped the border and killed 44 - year - old Şükrü Kahraman. On August 4th, Ramazan Zaybel, father of 10 children who went on holiday shopping in Ceylanpınar, died of a gunshot to the heart at the age of 45. As you know, the Al-Qaeda Front of Al-Nusra, who had been known as Al-Qaeda's arm, lost another person in Ceylanınar two days ago as a result of the AKP government's war against the Kurds. The wedding house, where El Nusra Front threw a mortar bullet at Ceylanpınar, became a house of mourning. İdris Akgül, father of two children, died and one was injured. Again, it is reported to the press that the people of Ceylanpınar are on edge tonight because of two mortar shells that hit Ceylanpınar. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, I want our motion to investigate, especially the government, to be evaluated immediately and brought to the conclusion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0021par0336	Thank you, Mr. Rider. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP... Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0022par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on a motion made by the Peace and Democracy Party regarding Syrian refugees in Şanlıurfa. I salute you all. First of all, it's not just the problem of Şanliurfa, so we find this motion incomplete in this sense. There is a Syrian refugee in Şanlıurfa, Turkey, and you think there are no asylum seekers from Syria, just a mile away from the Assembly, in the Black Sea District? There are Syrian asylum seekers all over Turkey, in Iğdır, in Kars, in Edirne, in Turkey, and we think it would be wrong and incomplete in this sense that this matter should be assessed only on the axis of Şanlıurfa. This matter must be investigated, it is true, but it is not Şanlıurfa, but the number of Syrian asylum seekers in all Turkey, their condition and how far this issue will go, dear friends of mine, must be investigated by the Parliament. We know the House hasn't been spending much time on this stuff lately. Mr. Prime Minister and his special team are bypassing the House and doing their research on everything, making decisions on everything -- if necessary -- and converting Congress into a confirmation office. But the Supreme Assembly, the greatest achievement of our republic, which we celebrated the 90th anniversary of yesterday, must investigate this matter. The speaker had just stated that the people who died there were Kurds, who died with bombs and bullets, and Mr. Speaker, you've isolated the ethnic origins of the living in Turkey, and at every point you've stressed ethnicity, and now you're investigating the ethnic origins of the dead?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0023par0345	When you're Kurdish, there's no reaction. He said, "You didn't listen."
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0022par0346	The dead are my citizens, the dead are my people, a citizen of this country, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, and the dead are Turks, regardless of ethnicity. Stop researching people's ethnicity, stop classifying people according to their ethnicity. If there is a problem there, the citizen of the Republic of Turkey is to investigate the problems of Turkey's inhabitants and those of the dead. It's time to stop doing ethnic politics on the dead. Dear friends, Turkey has a serious refugee problem. At the same time, Turkey has a serious security problem. We are the descendants of the Ottomans, we are the heirs of the Ottomans, and we boast of that. In both our beliefs and national values, we have to take care of the people who are coming to our door, regardless of their origin, their country, their nationality, their religion, whatever their faith. However, we must do so within control and within our means. Those who stir Syria are obvious. While today's conditions were in the middle of Syria, they all withdrew, in Turkey, following Mr. Davutoglu, Mr. Foreign Minister's dream, making a bloodbath, there's a world at our side, and unfortunately our people are suffering from it. Bullets bounce from there, my people die. With missiles, bombs, rockets, my people are dying, and while my people are barely living, we have to divide Turkey's scarce resources because we have to welcome our guests from there, refugees from there. Of course, we'll split it, but on one hand, when there's a government going to the fire, not with water, but with gas, more refugees coming from the other side, more refugees coming from there, more refugees coming from the other. While everyone in the world is talking about peace, while you're still talking about the settlement of the Syrian issue through peace, let's go in, bomb it for seventy-nine days, let's get more blood flowing, more tears and more refugees coming in. Even your allies no longer support your aggressive, war-mongering policy. Neither Germany, France, England, nor America, nor even Israel supports your secret friend, Israel, whose trade rate you raised to 40 percent after the fact. There's something wrong, guys. The war in Syria, as you have predicted, will not end in one day, in one week, in three months. This war is about to turn into gangrene, and this gangrene will most affect Turkey; it will affect it with ricochets; it will affect it with ricocheted bullets; it will affect it with cut trade; it will affect the death of Turkish people, and it will affect it with the influx of refugees. That's why we've been calling Mr. Davutoglu as a member of the Foreign Commission for two years, Mr. Davutoglu, if you'd be so kind as to come. You're not informing the parliament, at least inform the residency commission, inform the Foreign Affairs Commission. We say, "It's not yet there, Mr. Davutoglu. You don't inform the House, you don't inform the Foreign Affairs Commission, you don't inform these people -- you're about to cut the TVs, you're about to cut the Capitol broadcast -- so how will the public know what's going to happen? The citizen's right to be informed... does not the citizen have to know what will happen to the Syrian who comes and tries to take his door away in the heart of Ankara? Don't citizens have the right to know what the Syrian refugee problem is that he shares his bread with, dear friends? What are you hiding from the citizen? Let's consider the Syrian refugee problem, as a whole, actually the refugee problem. We've become the country where the most refugees live in the world. Only Syrian? Afghanis are coming, Iranians are coming, Armenians are all in Turkey. On one side, the illegal workers and the four sides of Turkey are occupied, on the other side with refugees. How far will it go? There's no unemployment in this country? There's unemployment in this country, but there's a lot of people in this country who come from Africa and work on the run, too. Isn't it your duty, my friends, to take this under control, that you, as the government, have no duty to detain illegal workers in Turkey? Shouldn't you be planning the refugee problem in Turkey, where it's coming from, where it's going, what it's going to be, how much more we're going to spend on it? It is your duty, but you are not doing your duty, my friends. There are allegations in the papers because you didn't do it. It is said that the Saudis have opened a hospital in Reyhanlı, and the wounded of the Syrian Free Syrian Army have been treated in hospitals where other countries in Turkey have illegally opened. Of course, no matter what happens, old, sick, injured people must be treated, but Turkey must know that. In Turkey, if someone comes and opens a hospital, someone comes and sends the soldiers he's treating to fight there again, I'm sorry, are you a scarecrow? This country has become an inn of terrorists; in this country, someone comes in, opens a hospital, cures it, sends back the fighters from there; refugees are surrounded by prostitution; young Syrian girls are stuck in prostitution; theft, begging heads are going away. So, what do you do? You need to contain this, dear friends. This is not a political material, not a political issue; this is the matter of the country and the issue of the country is not a secret darkroom, but a Turkish Grand National Assembly. And you, as a whole -- so not just a province, but a whole -- come, let's discuss this matter in the House, in the High Assembly, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0024par0351	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0025par0352	Mr. President, during his oratory speech, he stated that we were political by the ethnic identity of the dead citizens, referring to our group. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0024par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0025par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. The orator who was speaking here just accused our group of putting an ethnic attitude on the deaths. Let's make this clear once and for all that's not true. Our speaker friend, who spoke on behalf of our group, said: "We are dealing with a government practice that demonstrates a political attitude based on the identity of the deceased and the killer. " When Assad kills, the apocalypse breaks out; when El Nusra kills, there's no reaction; when the Kurdish dies, there's no reaction; when he becomes a citizen of a different ethnicity, when the government becomes a citizen of Turkey, there's an apocalypse. Isn't that the truth? Now, did the government have a single explanation for the death of our citizen in this Ceylannar? Why isn't there an apocalypse? Why doesn't the government talk about the rules of engagement, what needs to be done, I don't know, the shooting of targets? So, when that's the attitude, naturally, we make a criticism of a government that determines a political attitude based on the identity of the deceased and the killer. We are not a political party for the living through ethnic identity. We conduct the politics of all the oppressed in this country, Kurds, Alevis, Süryans, non-Muslims, Lazler, Circics, segregation, and all the others. But if you insist on bringing in Kurdish language, Kurdish identity, policies that will deny Kurdish history, assimilation, then of course you'll find our speech defending the rights of the Kurdish people here. We do not accept that the Kurds, who have created the process of denial, destruction and assimilation so far, will come from here and accuse our party of making ethnic politics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We will continue to fight the peace and freedom of all the peoples of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0026par0364	The Peace and Democracy Group has proposed...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0027par0365	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0026par0366	Sir?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0027par0367	I'd like to make a statement about the conversation I just had.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0026par0368	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0027par0372	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, what we'd like to point out to you in the speech just now is that whoever is dying there, Turkish or Kurdish, is all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and they are all human beings. Thus, we said that there should be no distinction there. So El Nusra kills Kurds. It's about what happened in Syria, but who appreciates who's Kurdish and who's Turkish? A lot of Turkish people died there, too. Thus, we would like to hear that there, not the Kurds or Turks, but the citizens of the Republic of Turkey have lost their lives -- coming cannons or bullets, ricocheting bullets. Therefore, if you start by calling the Kurt, the Turk, Lazy, the Circeşeli... you will not be able to achieve unity and unity in that country, and as a political party, you will not be able to handle the Turkish nation as a whole. This means separating the people of the Republic of Turkey from each other. Whoever it is, all our people who have lost their lives there are our people. Whoever lost their lives there, whatever ethnic group they belong to, they're our people. To make this distinction this way, unfortunately, is wrong for political parties as well as wrong for the unity and unity of the state of the Republic of Turkey; we wanted to express it. So we said we should evaluate not by who died here, but by the fact that our citizens died there. That's all there is to it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0028par0376	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0029par0377	Mr. President, sir, there's an article in the title of the Interim Presidential Court, which you just read in the first presentation.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0028par0378	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0029par0379	Now, as if there was only one party in this Parliament, there was a presidential chair of commissions. I had a warning. He didn't bring it in last week, for some reason, but the 95th article of the Constitution says it's very clear that the parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey participate in all Turkish Parliament activities by the amount of their power. Now, all the commissions are being elected, President AKP (AKP)lı, Vice-President AKP (AKP)lı, Speaker AKP/li, writer AKP (AKP) people. Such a commission cannot be a presidential court, it is contrary to Article 95 of the Constitution. I mentioned it in my article, but I wasn't there when you were there. I'd like you to have a...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0028par0381	We read all about it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0029par0382	You've read it, but if you'd like to...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0028par0383	So we read your article to the General Assembly's information without missing a word.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0029par0384	...let's have a little bit of a discussion. So let's open up a discussion of procedure because they're...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0028par0385	I'll open up a legal debate and if you'd like, we can finish this proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party Group...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0029par0386	Yes, sir. No, I mean, I wasn't here, so I did it for her. Anyway, thanks.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0028par0388	Okay, whatever. Yeah, let me finish this. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Mr. Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0030par0396	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our government's wrong policy on Syria certainly has different effects; it has social and economic impacts, it has human effects. Hundreds of thousands of people who died in Syria, bombs that exploded in Turkey, citizens who lost their lives, and, of course, the problem of Syrian refugees. I would like to express that this proposal, this proposal on the agenda, the proposal brought by the BDP, is more appropriate for all of our provinces, for the whole of our country. As a result of brother fighting in Syria, fueling the neighboring fire, fueling the gas, of course, our country is also experiencing serious problems with Turkey's national security. However, one of the things that has been on the agenda in the last few days is the wall of Rojava. I want to make it clear that over a quarter of a century after the destruction of the world's walls, I condemn this bench for the signing of such an outdated practice in this day and age. This wall is a wall built on the heart of Kurds, a clear manifestation of AKP's fascist and racist understanding. Dear MPs, to understand the Syrian refugee issue better, you need to know how to deceive the Arab Spring. We just need to know the role of Turkey in the Arab Spring game, which has benefited international interests. I'm sure the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister know that very well. Because of the Arab Spring game, which is not ours, which is none of our business, we immediately sided with all of the Muslim countries, or rather, you sided with brother fights, you sided with Syria's internal issue. From all over the world, you have given weapons to the hands of terrorists who have ripped out their lungs and cut off their heads and led them to Syria. You have set up Hatay, and the camp of Apedun, and the place of the evildoers, who are unknown. At first, Hatay became an entire Syrian border terrorist nest. Hatay has turned into an explosive warehouse. Under the influence of this game, the oppressed Syrian brothers, and the bombs that exploded in Cilve-Eye, the people who died in Reyhanlı, the citizens who died in Ceylanpınar and Akchakale, the citizens who died of bullets from Syria, and on the other hand, one of our soldiers who were killed by the fire of terror groups you raised and raised on our borders, and one of our citizens who lives in our border provinces, especially Hatay, and one who is left alone in all over the world. It's a bust. A foreign policy called strategic depth, which turns out to be a complete strategic disgrace, both inside and outside. You said, "We don't know the number today, and we don't know the number today, but it's estimated that there are over 500,000 refugees." Our border cities, particularly Hatay, are full of Syrians who are begging in the streets and living in misery. Dear lawmakers, the people who live in this land, throughout history, have always embraced and shown compassion to people in distress, to the oppressed. That was yesterday, that's today, that's tomorrow. Of course, those people's basic needs, such as housing and care, must be met. Those Syrian children who were taken from their homeland must also be met with the needs of education. But all of this should be done in accordance with the seriousness and dignity of the Republic of Turkey, the laws of our state should be done without disregard, and most importantly, by government hands, not by uncertain persons. About a month and a half ago, I came across a sign on a Reyhan visit, and I'm pulling your attention from Reyhan's subsidiary -- and it's right across the street from the District National Education Directorate. On one side of the sign is the Turkish flag, the flag that represents the ESO, and on the other side it says "Züheriye School High School." I shared this observation with the public. I asked if this school was founded in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Turkey? The following day, statements from the Governorate and the National Education Directorate came in succession: there is no such school in our records. We're not allowed to. We don't know. They said. I repeat, this school is right across the street from the subcommittee. Is there such a weakness, dear lawmakers? I've shared pictures of you on this bench before. Again, on my visit to a Goldsmith, I met the Syrians who had been left to die in a village, who had been thrown out of the hospital. Now, from here to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, how many Syrian refugees are there in our country? How much money was spent on these refugees? What is the total number of Syrian beggars that we are accustomed to seeing in Hatay and other cities in Turkey at a red light? How many Syrian beggars do we see in every street? What are the reasons for the growing theft and prostitution of Hatay in particular? How many Syrian countries in Hatay, which we used to see at almost every workplace, are working off the books and on slavery fees? How many citizens has this left out of work? How will plagues, such as measles and flowers, be prevented because of Syrian refugees? How many Syrians are left to die in the land of Snow White, which I myself have witnessed? How much does Syria cost our country, and how will it be compensated? Who will account for the people who were killed by bullets in Reyhanlı, Cilve-Eye, and in Syria, Ceylanınar? In Reyhanlı, how many schools are there in Turkey, such as Zuheriye, which I personally witnessed? Hatay's boundaries and when will Hatay return to normal? I'm asking these questions, but unfortunately, I also know that you can't answer them, because the depth of Mr. Secretary of State is far from understanding the progress that has been made so far, and far from understanding the next steps. Mr. President, not just these, but today, I'm telling you, on behalf of Syrian refugees, he's gathering help. In particular, an organization called IHF is provided with unlimited resources by the government. My dear friends, the sheep of Karaman, then take it off. Today, I give you the good news of the new Lighthouses, which will come out in a few years, to you and all of Turkey. I'd like to call from here to the government once again: "Make peace, stop giving weapons to one side in a brother's quarrel." Don't leave these people's education and all other human needs in the hands of people who don't know what they are. Open the gates to the true underdogs; close the gates to the ideological, radical Islamic warriors. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0031par0408	Thank you, Mr. Dudu. The final word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Abdulkerim Gök. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0412	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group against the Peace and Democracy Party's parliamentary inquiry motion. On this occasion, I salute you all. Here, my predecessors, my colleagues, have expressed many issues. But, at the beginning of my words, first, in Ceylanpınar, and in Akchakale, and of course in Reyhanlı, I say this because it is Syria, especially because Ceeylanpınar and Akchakale, in this research proposal I say to our dear fellow citizens who have lost their lives, to our brothers and sisters, to God. I share their pain, their pain is our pain. Until morning, I followed the events of Ceylanpınar, along with all my fellow officials. That's right. Ten of our citizens, one of our brothers, are dead, and about 40 of our citizens are listed as injured. And I also know the condition of the people there, especially because of the intense and stressful environment of Ceylanpınar. However, we all know that when we evaluate it in international law, when we look back, it's good to take a very detailed look at the events of a country's internal affairs. All of our authorities have stated that in accordance with the events, the National Ministry of Defence and the General Staff have been responded to in a large way under the rules of engagement. We, as a country, continue to do what international law has made us necessary. First of all, whatever we said on the first day of the Syrian incident, I want to say that we are where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are at the very first day. However, when we look at the international dimension, there is a coup in Egypt. Many Arab countries who stood with us when we said that they entered a different policy in the incident in Syria. What I'm trying to say is, we've learned in colleges, we've taught. Foreign policy is the axis of interest, foreign policy is the axis of interest. That's right, up to a point. However, together with the AK PARTI authorities, we have brought a new concept to foreign policy and domestic policy, which is called values politics. So, with pure capitalist arguments, our interest today is not to build tent cities in foreign policy, Syria, to be indifferent to the human drama, to create a buffer zone inside, and to remain indifferent to our interests. We can easily see from where a proactive foreign policy brings us out of the highly stable, in the process of breaking down the memorization. As of today, we welcome our brothers and sisters in tent cities, whose number is over 500,000. We have these people in our country, in our history, in our customs, in our customs, and in our neighbourly relations, in our kinships. With the tax paid by our citizens of our country, 90-95 per cent of the tax paid, the figure totalled $2 billion. Thankfully, we, the faithful, are brothers. We are now putting into practice the need to be a great state and a state of glory. Well, in Ceylanpınar, across the street, I can't help but notice that he's Tel Abyad in Akchakale, and Kobani in Suruç. An incident across from Akchakale, at the Syrian border of Turkey and Kurds, which is the main population in Tel Abyad, the Arab and Suruç, the Kurdish population in Kobani. I want to make it clear from here that those who desire an Arab-Kurdish war in the region, that it's not true, that it's not going to work anywhere, that it has nothing to do with our policies. We, the Arab, the Kurdish, and the Turk, do not want their blood flowing, regardless of their ethnic and religious structure. That's the summation of the politics that we've implemented. Then we go back to Ceylanpınar. With ricocheted bullets, of course, there's been a tense environment, of course, a stressful environment. I made it clear at first. I watched all the events in Ceylanpınar until morning, with my fellow officials, and before I gave this talk, I followed what was the case there - all my friends. I understand the stress of our people there, but I want to say that because of the upcoming local government elections, those who want to use it as domestic policy material are not doing it right.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0033par0420	Shame on you! Shame on you! There are people who have lost their lives. You have to choose...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0421	What I'm trying to say is that it's my pain that's lost your life, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0033par0422	Shame on you! I mean, shouldn't we say, there are people who have lost their lives.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0423	Look, I listened to you. I don't mean anyone, and I didn't give you a name. I'd like to point out that it's not true that those who put it that way might be true.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0034par0424	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0425	Now, see, dear friends, when there's a bullet tab on the bullet, it's a PYD bullet. If it's written, I don't know, it's an El Nusra bullet. I don't know if it says that either.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0034par0426	Didn't you read it?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0427	However, no matter where our wounded citizen comes from in Syria, he's proud and proud to be a great state again.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0035par0428	It was known to you who owned the bomb-loaded vehicle in Reyhan, but you deliberately ignored the bomb-loaded vehicle in Reyhan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0429	...we've treated them in our hospitals, and we're still taking them. There's never been any identification of any citizen, any other injured person coming across without asking for their ID, and there's no identification of any people coming from there, dear friends -- we take them and treat them in hospitals.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0035par0430	Then why are you arresting the John Doe?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0431	Mr. Governor, the day this incident took place, he's making a great effort today.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0036par0432	Then how do you arrest people who don't have ID?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0433	Mr. Faruk Çelik Bey, the members of Urbana, we're in the area today, adding our nights to our day, we're not leaving. However, in the framework of the rules of legitimacy and law that this internationally-sized incident and international law has given us, we're already saying that we're responding with a lot under the rules of engagement. This incident has caused an economic straitlock in this country, making it necessary for reason and rule. Some of our foreign trade is with Syria, and many of the neighbouring countries have traded with Syria. We have also traded with Syria. Thus, in return for this incident in Syria, there has been a decline in our trade, as well as in our exports. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're talking about a result that's natural, of course. Our government, our government, keeps all of its records, does its research, and at the same time, the numbers in the tent city are clear, our country's in and out of control.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0436	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0437	The authorities and the governor of the region are engaged in a great deal of effort and dedication by putting the night into the day. Everyone here is fighting for a good cause. I want to thank everyone for their common sense. Especially in Ceylanınar, Akchakale, Suruç, who once again thanks the common sense of our people and...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0439	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0032par0440	...that we will be against this motion of investigation by the Peace and Democracy Party, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0038par0442	Mr. President, during his orator talk, he meant that what we're talking about here is an election account.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0443	Now he's fixed it, but go ahead and fix it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0038par0444	On behalf of our group, Mr. Ozdal will make a statement.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0445	Now, there's going to be a line after that. Now, your group...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0038par0446	No, no, no.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0447	No, I know the system. He fixed it, so he fixed it. I'd like to ask a non-verbal explanation for our other friend, Mr. Threeer. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0039par0453	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our group's research proposal is not only a matter of concern to our country, but to its citizens and guests of all countries, where our country is directly or indirectly neighboring. The whole world is concerned about the situation in which Russia, Russia, China, China, China, and the state of civil war were involved and the situation in which the U.S. was not reflected in Turkey. Everyone knows that national interest is based on national interest in international diplomatic relations, but national interest doesn't mean that other people's interests are ignored, that someone's death is ignored, that some people are destroyed, that some people are sacrificed in war. If national interest is based on social interest, then instead of being part of the Syrian war, the solution in Syria would have to be in the area of a diplomatic relationship that would provide the democratic union solution for the people there. We are not opposed to treating the wounded from Syria, but we are opposed to special treatments in private hospitals where gang members are subjected to discrimination. No matter who comes from Syria, it is of course Turkey's humanitarian and conscientious duty to heal their wounds, but we don't have them while we're saying that the election is mentioned five months from now. We see an assessment as a pitiful attitude. Shame, shame! It doesn't suit you. People are dying there, millions of people are migrating, millions of people are dying, millions of children are missing, and our citizens who are not part of that war are losing their lives, but we have taken the necessary measures.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0456	Thank you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0039par0457	A saying that the bombs in Reyhan were ignored, but that a bullet was also accounted for is a historical oversight. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0460	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Two minutes in five, all of you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0040par0462	Mr. President, the AKP representative has given false information that the government is helping those who seek refuge in Turkey, that the opposition does not want this. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0041par0463	I didn't use that expression.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0037par0464	Now, I didn't say that either. You say, "I'll give it to you." Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0042par0468	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is, of course, a great state. If there is a problem in a neighbouring country, if there is a war, if there is a hunger, if there is persecution, the woman who takes refuge in him must help the child, the elderly, the civilian people, and help the people, there is no harm in that. We'll find it right, we'll find it healthy, that's what's good for Turkey. We're not talking about this, we're talking about groups with guns. Turkey currently has no actual borders with Syria. There's a lot of armed groups going around. If you don't do so, you'll get Turkey into trouble, you'll drag Turkey into a swamp. That's what we meant when we said. Otherwise, it is our duty to help the Syrian women, the children, the elderly, of course. Look, you're wrong about Syrian policy, you got Turkey in trouble. So you were saying, my friend Assad, you were taking a vacation together. You signed 49 international agreements on water, anti-terrorism. The most deal was signed during this period, during the AKP period. But then the next thing we knew, where we came from, you called the person you called my friend Assad. But, at the end of these three years, we've seen again that I wouldn't be surprised if Mr. Assad would soon stop saying "Esed" again and say "Esad" again. I mean, the reason he said "Esed" was because he wanted to trick people, not because he was my friend. But if he remembered his old friend again, I wouldn't be surprised if he did it again.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0043par0471	Resets are from the computer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0042par0472	You're really wrong at this point, and Turkey had signed 13 agreements with Syria from 1980 to 2002, but it was you who signed 49 contracts from 2002 to 2013, and you were on yachts in the Bosphorus.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0044par0474	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0042par0475	It is you who are vacationing in the basement, and you who are enemies today.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0044par0477	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0045par0478	You're the one who took the picture.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0044par0482	I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0044par0484	Mr. Young, I'll listen to you now.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0485	Mr. President, now, as senior member of the CSI Commission, I've been President of the Presidential Court. However, the 95th article of our Constitution states that Turkey's Grand National Assembly operates according to its charter, which states on what conditions the charter will be drafted, while the political groups bring a second joke in order to participate in all the activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey according to their power. Now, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the president, deputy president, spokesman and clerk are all AKP members who have been elected to the commissions this semester. AKP has 326 MPs, but more than 200 MPs are in opposition parties. Now, the presidential court's thanks in this way is against Article 95 of the Constitution. I've reported this to the Presidential Court, the President and the Speaker, but you've never made a decision. If you don't mind, let's have a formal discussion about this.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0489	Now, alone -- I've spoken with my friends -- the commissioner of the 24th Amendment of the Civil Code, the president, the vice president, the spokesman, and the clerk.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0490	I get it, I know it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0491	Wait a second... in this matter under the authority of the Commission, he has no right to appreciate our presidency.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0492	But, sir, since your presidency has not been recognized, the President of the House...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0048par0493	As the oldest member...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0494	Please... I don't understand, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0495	The Speaker's duty is to oversee the commissions. Now, the Constitution comes first, the charter-- let's say that that clause of the Charter -- not that the president, the vice president, the clerk, and the spokesman would be elected from a single party -- has to be interpreted by the 95th article of the Constitution. So there's only one...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0496	I get it, but the poor Vice President doesn't get any credit here.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0497	Sir, but that choice...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0498	I mean, you're doing it in your own place.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0499	Sir, I'm saying that those elections are null and void. If you don't mind... So, as if there's only one party here in the House, thanks to the commissioner's office...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0500	Now, Mr. Young, I don't have that kind of appreciation, but look, there's something else that you insist on: let's do the Internal Charter now, let's do the 95.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0046par0501	No, no, it's not about you, it's about the position of the Speaker.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0502	Well, then, his ways are different. Now I'm in charge...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0049par0503	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0504	No, dear!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0050par0505	No, no... Mr. President, the 63rd Amendment, the Parliament's work order...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0506	Anyway, we understand each other. Here, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0050par0508	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0047par0509	Is there anything in favor of my attitude?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0051par0510	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0052par0511	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0053par0512	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0054par0513	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0055par0514	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0056par0515	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0057par0516	Okay, two minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0058par0517	Let me speak against you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0057par0518	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0059par0521	Mr. President, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey states that the Supreme Assembly of Turkey is governed according to its charter. In its second statement, it states that all parties present in Parliament can't neglect the 95% of the Parliament's activities in order to contribute to all its powers. Now, there are 326 members of the AKP. What's left is, I think, 200 or so of the other opposition parties. Now, you're giving 326 MPs a president, a vice president, a spokesman, a clerk, but you're not giving a member of the opposition on the commissioner's chair. This is contrary to the 95th Article of the Constitution, which is a little bit, I think, of course, to people who have read and studied some legal studies, see that it is very clear and indiscriminate. So, I mean, okay, the majority of the commissions are in the AKP, but this choice has to be made in accordance with Article 95 of the Constitution. I mean, who has the authority to represent a member of an opposition party today? He's the President, the Vice President and the Speaker. Therefore, at least one of the presidents, vice presidents, or spokesman, must be given an opposition party. Look, according to Article 94 of the Constitution, the Court of Parliament is formed again, while the largest party in the majority system, the two presidential paralegals, and the other is distributed by its powers. In my opinion, this commission is completely against the 95th Amendment of the Constitution, but the Speaker of Parliament is not interested in the work of the Assembly, which is interested in other things. I mean, you know, he's interested in some random stuff. I wish we had time to explain them here. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0060par0527	Thank you very much, Mr. Young. Lehte İstanbul MP Doğan Kabbat.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0530	Mr. President, in favor of your position in the debate of the procedure... which is not a subject for a discussion of procedure, it's not a procedure, it's what you've just expressed. In the first article of Article 95 of the Constitution, there is a ruling in accordance with the Civil Code decrees that Turkey will conduct the works of the Grand National Assembly, and in its second joke, that these parliamentary works will be carried out according to the representation of the parties' forces.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0062par0532	Not by the powers of parties.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0533	Yeah, in terms of their strength.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0062par0534	Not by the amount of his powers.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0535	No. Look at the Constitutional Court's decisions, Mr. Muharrem, there's no need to argue about it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0062par0536	The number of members. Power is one thing.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0537	Sir, according to the numerical majority, it's represented by its powers, so the numerical majority here, by comparison...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0063par0538	Number of members...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0539	Now, to get to the bottom of this:
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0064par0540	Power is one thing, but I'm telling you as a physics teacher, look.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0541	Mr. President, let's discuss this in private, there's no need to get carried away.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0065par0542	The number is another, the power is another.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0543	The commissions set in Article 20 have been very clear in Article 21 how members of political party groups will be represented. No matter how many members fall to each party here, these are reported by the Speaker of Parliament to political parties concerned, and the election is being held accordingly. I read the reason for the 24th article, the commissioner, the vice president, and the clerks' election: (It is necessary to point out that there is no presidential court in the commissions. They're not really doing anything in the form of commissioners, vice presidents, spokesman and clerks. All of these tasks are separate tasks. For these reasons, it is not possible for these authorities to be divided according to the proportions of political party groups, as though these commissions are being discussed within a committee. It turns out that a commission has been established with the law, and a presidential court has been envisioned for it -- as in the Human Rights Commission -- then the majority of the political party groups.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0066par0545	It'll be in favor...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0546	Sir, please... let me read the reason, Mr. Kamer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0066par0547	The charter is against the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0061par0548	Mr. Kamer, you know the business very well, so... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, the position of the presidency is in order. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0067par0552	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0068par0553	A party may have a large number of members, but its strength may be low. You can't say power, by the number of members... you can be crowded, he won't show his strength. You can be too much as a volume, that's another matter.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0067par0554	Against Hakkari MP Adil Zozani. Here you go. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] It's too fast...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0069par0558	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Kabbat's tongue slips, uses the concept of strength, but there is something about being still ruled by military mentality. The numerical data should be discussed here or based on the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0070par0560	Number of members...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0069par0561	Now, in all matters that have come up on the subject of the Civil Charter, basically, right now, I'm speaking against it, but when it's not just about the 95th Amendment, when it's about the Civil Code, it's a little bit more about putting it on the table and thinking about it. Now, this is like a camel. So your neck is curved. They said, "But where am I right?" Now, what's true about this Civil Code? If there's going to be a review here, there's one thing: for about a year now, the Parliamentary Civil Charter Commission has been established, it's got its work, but it's been tied up in 20 critical articles. Unfortunately, the government's wing failed to sign the necessary responsibility for the proper removal of this Civil Code, for the adoption of the Parliament into a new civil ordinance. Thus, the same is true every time the council is governed by an open Civil Charter, which interprets the clauses as requested by the wanted member. I mean, if any councilman comes out in half an hour, I want to open up a debate here. If he says, "No power will stand in the way, because that's the Civil Code." That's how much it's done with the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0071par0562	There is the Constitution, the 95th article of the Constitution is open.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0069par0563	Now, that's what you call it, but that's his current situation.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0072par0564	The Constitution must be changed too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0069par0565	We need to get rid of this whole thing. We've got to get out of this freaky shit, we've got to get rid of it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0073par0566	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0069par0567	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0073par0568	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0074par0569	Mr. President, I'd like to apologize and make a statement every few minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0073par0570	Now, why don't I finish up in order, and then you can explain?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0074par0571	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0073par0572	So, I want the process to speed up now. Okay? Well, maybe there's something else you can object to. I'm saving time. Lehte, MP Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0075par0576	Mr. President, when the esteemed members of the Justice and Development Party listen to the speech of a fellow MP, it's as if they're always running this House according to the Charter and the Constitution, you think they're running Turkey in accordance with regulations and regulations. No, it's not like that. What is the most disturbing statement of the ruling party in Turkey right now, Mr. President, Mahir Ünal Bey? You run like fascist dictators. The Justice and Development Party is troubled by the accusation. What's the reason? Have you thought about that? It goes through these kinds of apps. You call it the Charter, the 95th Amendment of the Constitution, but there's also a code of conscience. I went to the Environmental Commission, where the Deputy President opened up as the oldest member. Without us opposition MPs, we can't choose. Well, I know these things, so I'll join, but I might not sign for them. But I went from the European Union Commission. In the European Union Commission and the Karma Parliamentary Commission, the presidential court is represented by representatives from other opposition parties in the commissions of Mr Mehmet Tekelioğlu and Afif Demirkıran. There's a legal obligation or no argument, and there's been a theme, and neither the Justice and Development Party is complaining, nor the opposition party is complaining. But no, sir, we're the majority here, so we'll choose the presidential chair. When you rule, we will continue to call you fascists and dictators everywhere. If you agree to this, do not take all of the commissions, not even members, but also the Constitution. Look, if you really intend to run this country with opposition parties, listen to this call. Opposition parties are crucial to the decisions made in this country. Otherwise, come here yourself, you'll be your own groom, and you won't be happy about it. The more you throw us out, the more we keep calling us fascists and dictators. Have a good day.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0076par0580	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Kubat...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0077par0582	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Adil has just misdirected my thoughts by acting on his word of power, and I'd like to make a statement about him.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0078par0583	From the force, it's obvious, Mr. Kubat. When he said "power," we understood him.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0076par0584	And then it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0079par0588	Mr. President, when I use the word of power, it's not for a reference, it really doesn't even cross my mind. It's very technical, so it's a discussion here, and I'm getting involved in the technical dimension. If you have a chance to read the 21st article of the Civil Code, the second joke of the Constitution of the period, the 95th article of the Constitution, does not compel political party groups to have representatives in the commissions, but only in the way that these groups should participate in the activities of the commissions. The Civil Charter continues to call political party groups each commission and presidential court a number of those in accordance with their own power ratios.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0080par0590	The junta wrote that stuff, and you're confirming what we said. Anyway, the soldiers wrote that stuff.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0079par0591	So this is the concept of a principle of the Charter. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0081par0593	Thank you, thank you. A change in my attitude...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0082par0595	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0081par0596	Well, first of all, there was nothing about my attitude anyway.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0082par0597	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0081par0598	Oh, I get it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0082par0601	Mr. orator, he also mentioned my name and used the expression "dictator" and "fascist" about our party. All rights stemming from the Civil Code are being used by all political parties here. The EU Commission for Harmony, Human Rights Commission for Human Rights, KEFEK, these are commissions established by law. Naturally, there's a vice president there. But since the commission itself made the choice of the other commissions, it's entirely the commission's own choice. It's one thing to accuse a political party of fascistism, dictatorship, it's another thing to bring criticism from here. So, Mr. President, I believe this statement of the speaker is beyond purpose.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0081par0603	Okay. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0083par0604	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0081par0605	Wait a second. We haven't already had a discussion about my attitude, we've finished it. There's no change in my attitude...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0084par0607	But I thought you'd get your words back, so I didn't ask her to take them back.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0085par0608	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0084par0609	Now he doesn't take back his words.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0085par0610	Mr. President, I'm here to inform you that I resigned to protest this fascist attitude because I've been exposed to such practices in the Environmental Commission, which I've been elected before. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit01spe0086par0612	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0086par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (30/10/2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. A parliamentary research proposal issued by Manisa MP Hasan Ören and his friends on 24/10/2013 to investigate the benefits and expectations of our country and the Turkish Armed Forces of reducing its short-term military term for the Turkish Parliament's presidency (1065 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (30/10/2013/2013), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first word in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0087par0017	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on the group proposal of the Republican People's Party. It's about short-term military service, but before you do that, when you look at the Parliament on matters that you've always brought up with the demand and demand for advanced democracy, it's hard to accept how you bypassed this Assembly, just how this Assembly is notary duty. Parliament TV will shut down the broadcast on Parliament's work in two and a half hours at 7:00 p.m. You've shut down the group talks, the weekly presentations of the presidents, what's happened in the country, what's done in the country, what they want to share with Turkey, and you've stopped, you've stopped; Parliament does not broadcast TV in Turkey. Dear friends, I'd like to ask Mr. Bkent Arinc how much money he's saved on Parliament TV, and how many of our friends have left work or what kind of results have been achieved here, he has to come and say it here. TRT Sheş broadcasts for 24 hours -- and I'm proud of his broadcast, and we're not getting any -- 24 hours to the entire Islamic world. There's no way to understand why you interrupt this publication after 1900 p.m. when you want elected MPs to stop speaking in Parliament. I believe you don't understand either because your wives, your constituents, want to hear you speak from this stand, I sent the MP, what good is the MP doing in the House? They want to follow you. Now, the budget's coming in, so we'll be working all day long on the budget. We'll work until the morning, but no one will be able to monitor this Parliament, which is under the will of the people, so the citizens who will be in charge will not be able to inspect their own elected deputies. With a decision, I hope you will decide to publish the broadcasts and group meetings of Parliament TV until Parliament closes. My dear friends, you have reduced military service to twelve months by a new Council of Ministers decision on military service. It's a good and accurate decision, and we support it, but we don't think it's enough. Our proposal for you -- the military you've reduced to 12 months -- is that our friends who served six months in the short term -- should be reduced to four months. If you're sensitive to the subject, if you identify the disease and write the prescription accordingly, the results will be correct. According to the Prime Minister, there are now 600,000 deserters in Turkey. So 600,000 university students or 600 thousand citizens, mostly university students, are traveling in Turkey as deserters. Is that because they don't really want to serve, or because they're against military service, because of the persecution of the military, there's a number and a percentage of deserters in this country? No. It's a long time. If you try to get a student or a normal citizen who's finished college to serve in his prime, in his military years, in your prime, in your 12 months, 15 months, six months, then you'll change his circumstances in life. Right now, we have Turkey, which is the 7th and 2nd largest soldier in the world. We have 380,000 soldiers, 600,000 fugitives. Without thinking about it, without you suggesting a solution, I made it logical that if we discharge 70,000 troops in January, they will vote in March. The decision would be wrong only if you made the decision about them. Six months of military service, he graduated from college... and the Chief of Staff said: "I'm saving up everything I need for college students, college graduates. The rest of you must serve as soldiers for a short period of six months. What you have set aside, I agree, is twelve months, and you pay for it. So, about those six months of military service, do you need a student who's finished college to learn in six months how to pull the trigger for G-3, or do you want to teach him how to pull the trigger on a 203-year-old obsum with a rope or how to get up at 5:30 and clean up at five? You're already saying, as Chief of Staff, that I don't need college students who will serve six months short term. I'm getting enough of the soldiers I need from the university-educated soldiers who have had enough. • Getting six months of military service for the rest of them to destabilise those college students in their positions in life. You always bring unfair and unprovoked criticism to the Republican People's Party: you don't offer solutions, you don't tell solutions. If you've bypassed the House, if you've acquired the habit of running the country by law between the Prime Minister's two lips, with the decisions of the Council of Ministers, and with the decisions of the Council of Ministers, you can't be asked anything as an MP, that's your problem, it's not the problem of the Republican People's Party. Let's narrow it down to four months. We have an offer on the law. What's wrong with him coming down to four months with our friends? So they can't find out about the district cleanup in four months? I think they'll find out, but it'll happen if you want it. So, what do we do when we take it down to four months? We'd be contributing to Turkey's economy. These are not our friends walking the streets, walking the streets without a job. These friends have taken a job, they're in those jobs; they're in the production of Turkey's income, Turkey's added value. My dear friends, let's at least use your common sense here, please. Come, let us pass our four-month proposal of law with college students about our friends in the six-month military mission, which the Joint Chiefs of Staff don't feel the need for. You might say: "But the Republican People's Party has proposed this, and now if we pass the Republican People's Party's Law proposal, it will not be appropriate to our habits." You may also be telling the truth. You prepare the law proposal, let the Justice and Development Party prepare it -- Mr. Group Vice President will probably allow it -- and we'll sign under it, reduce six months of short-term military service to four months. Yes, my personal opinion is that it should be reduced from six months to four months. If you look at the newspapers of October 4th, Mr. Group, you'll find that our Deputy President has shared our thoughts on this matter. But there is an expression in Asia Minor: Agha's hand is not held. Let the Agha give you what is in your heart. Make it four more months, three more months. In three months, our undergraduates also learn to clean territory and use G-3. If you say so, your idea is above our heads. Please, let's not insist on this. Let's save thousands, tens of thousands of young people the trouble. It's important to bring this to the House with or without a law proposal that you can make, and take it out with you as soon as possible, to show the people that the common mind can be used in the House. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0088par0030	Thank you, Mr. Kören. İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal against Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0089par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal from the Republican People's Party. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, military service is the right and duty of every Turkish citizen under Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The military service was organised in the details of the 1111 Military Law and Reserve Officers Number 1076 and the Reserve Officers' Law. Short-term soldiers in the Turkish Armed Forces -- sergeants -- were serving as subservient officers for six months, 12 months, privates and privates -- for 15 months. However, according to the government's arrangement, the Turkish Armed Forces' need for troops, preparation for war, risk, threat perceptions have been taken into account and has been reduced from 15 months to 12 months in co-ordinated work with the long-term Army Chief of Staff. In its decision issued on 25 October 2013, it has been agreed that the regular military service period of those who are subject to the 1111 General Command of Kara, Deniz and Air Force and the General Command of the Gendarme and Coast Guard shall be reduced from 15 months to 12 months, including those who are under the gun, as well as those who are under its obligations on 1 January 2014. Dear MPs, this decision, which has been made, is a truly important and meaningful decision, especially in Turkey's transformation and transformation. This has been on the public agenda for the past three or four months. In view of the geopolitical conditions and environmental relations that our country is involved in, we also see that there is a need to organise military service from time to time. Dear lawmakers, a country must maintain a maximum security balance while establishing its security. That's what our government has always made decisions about security. Especially in a time when technology has evolved, we now see that there is a need for a force structure that is far ahead of human power, not individuality, but technology. Precious MPs, Turkish Armed Forces have the second largest army in terms of personnel among NATO countries; on the other hand, many countries within NATO have reconstructed their armies after the Cold Wars had fallen behind, but our country, due to its situation, has not rightly succeeded in this transformation. This is because of the high sensitivity to domestic security, the fight against terrorism, and the developments in this context. Along with decisions presented in the democratic package, this process will continue in a healthy manner. In addition, one of the most important challenges of the process that has been going on for 30 years in the fight against terrorism was that this incident was only over-reported to the Turkish Armed Forces and that it was only transferred to the Turkish Armed Forces. But since the day we took over the administration, we have struggled to resolve the incident in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the size of the administration, by taking it over the Turkish Armed Forces. We revisited the needs of economic, civil, social, cultural, diplomatic, and security-related issues. In this regard, the timing of this decision is crucial. There can be no weakness at this time when the democratic package has been lowered into the field because Turkey is no longer the former Turkey. As I have just stated, in a serious coordination today, the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of Defense and our government have made such a decision as a result of serious preparations, while there was a model of a relationship that the soldier was at the center of. As such strategic decisions are being made, I find it helpful to stress that Turkish Armed Forces, raised in analytical thinking, would make such decisions without ever falling into any weakness for security. Such a delicate subject is a well-worked package. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, we see that technology is very advanced while security is being run. Turkey is heading towards an army with high firepower, high operational capabilities, and high operational capabilities. And that's where the number of privates has to drop. Therefore, there are not many technical areas where our soldiers will serve for long periods of time. So for the long-term running of any technology-intensive tool and equipment, we're seeing, you know, specialists come in, gradually. The civilisation of service activities, logistical activities, and privatisation are a fact that has been implemented throughout the world in terms of efficiency. It's also a very meaningful decision to reduce numbers in the planning of manpower. At the point of transition to the professional army, our work is already under way. When we look at the specifics, we can say that the mixed army, as well as its sociocultural structure and geopolitical position, would be much more meaningful to Turkey these days. Dear lawmakers, the professional army in Western countries may be very prominent, but when we look at Western countries, their sense of threat and risk is much different from that of Turkey. What's really important here is to capture an optimal response to the maximum operational strength of an efficient army. Our government has been very determined and has made this decision, especially considering the precision in the fight against terrorism and the developments in the surrounding countries. I don't think there should be room for any public concern or hesitation. In any case, the nationalization of the defence industry is crucial to the intense efforts towards developing it. Turkey is taking important steps to produce its own weapons and equipment every day. The main reason why the air defence systems from China were taken from China despite NATO is because the number of nationalities here is common production. Earlier, such a choice was made because of a process in which Turkey's armed forces, which is called the source codes that security elements want, the controls, the software, are all in Turkey. What matters here is the minimum cost, maximum efficiency. I think it's very meaningful and appropriate that military service be shortened in terms of manpower planning. Manpower will also become a labor force here. He will be in business, not in military service of around 70,000 Mehmetchik who will be able to take advantage of this situation as early discharge. We must not forget the contribution this will make to Turkey's economy. We're going to make our young men see the military as a patriotic mission, not a lost time. Military service is not a duty to be neglected, but a constitutional right and homework. Not the number of soldiers, but the firepower and operational forces are always stronger and more successful. We're in the process of drones, drones, drones. Border security is now more operationally successful with electronic and digital systems than in police stations. What's really important here is that with the privatisation of the staff in service activities and logistical activities, quality has both risen and the need for military service has been partially reduced at this point. In particular, there will be a rapid privatisation of staff that performs services at social facilities such as army houses, military camps, I think, starting next semester. Now our hero soldier will be where he's supposed to be, not the potato, the onion peeler, the pit-winner soldier, but more operationalally. As I said at the beginning of my speech, increased and reduced time is a situation that can be revealed as a result of our government's co-ordinated work with the Chief of Staff and the Ministry of National Defence. Risks are considered threat perceptions, preparation for war is considered. Dear MPs, the service period of those responsible for the short term status of a reserve officer has been set for six months, as part of the 12 months of the service period of those who have been assigned as a reserve officer candidate - Article 5 of the Military Law No.11. About a month in training as a beginner is also used as a leave of absence for 12 days. For about four and a half months, our dear brothers and sisters serve this country as soldiers ready for war. So I think our short-term soldiers' time is sufficient. Because the Turkish Armed Forces need not only our long-term soldiers but also our college, faculty-educated soldiers, our short-term sergeants. The short term military is directly related to the backup officer's term and system. I also consider that the reduction of the long term from 15 months to 12 months would be beneficial for the standing by until the effects of Turkish Armed Forces prepare for war are extinguished. In this regard, he believes it's reasonable to have six months of short-term military time, which I hereby pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0090par0052	In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash, please come in.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0091par0054	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on the group's proposal to reduce short-term military service to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I hereby salute your high council. Turkey's historical position and cultural heritage obligations should be established as a strong and deterrent defence system due to its role in the establishment of peace in the region and the world, which should be sustainable. The Turkish Armed Forces must be able to carry out their mission successfully and successfully in accordance with the terms of the age; in this regard, the government must provide the Turkish Armed Forces with all kinds of ease. Turkish Armed Forces' mobility must be increased and deterrent. Initiating military modernisation programme, the Turkish Armed Forces should be made one of the world's most powerful armies for weapons, equipment and the ability to use advanced technology. Turkish Armed Forces' dependency on outside weapons and equipment is reduced. The export capacity is high, independent and domestic military industry and the local contractor need to be provided with incentives to invest in weapons, military equipment production. Defence industry technologies such as materials, technology, electronic warfare, aviation, space and satellite technologies, network-based warfare, drones, guidance and control technologies must be supported. In order to ensure the safety of information in the defence industry, the national software system must be expanded and Turkey must be invested. In order to benefit from satellite opportunities in the field of defence and security, aviation and space technologies must be weighted and necessary to provide complete domestic satellite production. Our defence industry should be restored to a structure that produces technology, not transfers technology, but is also allowed to produce its national needs in the harp industry. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers should not be allowed to wear down the Turkish army's reputation on the Turkish nation's conscience, on random daily policies, on the outside and on the outside. Publicist policies that will wear down the Turkish Armed Forces must be avoided. The structure of the Turkish Armed Forces must be strengthened in terms of manpower, technology and organisation, restructuring, modernisation, strengthening regional and global deterrent ability. The new organizational model should be focused on cyberwar and electronic security. In addition to specialising in the field of training, organizational and equipment, asymmetrical threat changes must be made. The task of asymmetrical threat should be based on a professional-based system based on task, and in other tasks, on the basis of responsibilities. Executive and social facilities must be made civil. These facilities need to be used by civilians as well. The activities of internal security units must be coordinated. In order to redefine the authority and responsibilities of the institutions in the field of internal security, the service must be carried out in harmony with modern methods. In corporate construction, intelligence activities, information flow, and anti-crime units must provide effective co-direction. For the establishment of security forces' dignity, measures must be taken, fiscal and social rights must be harmonised with their duties and responsibilities. Security personnel' appointment and promotions should be based on merit. Mr. President, the honorable MPs, the 5th article of the Military Law, are 18 months in the General Command of Kara, Deniz, and Gendarme. The decision can be made by the Council of Ministers, taking into account the need of the armed forces, to reduce the period in peace, to fifteen months first and twelve months. The Turkish Armed Forces still serve 379,000 privates. In the event of a decision shortening military service from the Council of Ministers, around 40,000 soldiers who have completed 12 months in the first place are expected to receive discharge papers. The Turkish Armed Forces are Turkey's apple of the eye. The commanders of the Turkish Armed Forces, who have done very important work in fighting terrorism, are unfortunately under arrest today. While the commanders of the Turkish Armed Forces are under arrest today, the steps taken while in prison have become a negative effect on the morale and motivation of the Turkish Armed Forces daily. What's important here is whether or not there's been any damage to the reputation of the Turkish Armed Forces by policy initiated by the government. It is not healthy for countries to try to destroy each other with war, as we have always taken over and tried to implement the principle of peace in yurtta, peace in jihan. For him, as the Great Leader Ataturk said, we must always put the principle of peace into practice and stand behind it. There must always be a deterrent power against our priorities, actions against us, politics and hostility. With our historical history, our geographical position, we must always keep our armed forces in line for duty. For our defences, we have to have our troops ready, trained, ready to fight the front lines, the asymmetric wars, the terrorists, the blockades, the force. In our defense, we need to be very strong to protect the borders of our country in the middle of three continents. Unfortunately, we all know that we can't prevent enough security, smuggling, and in-and-out traffic from terrorists, which is 8,300, 2.875 kilometers across our seas. Therefore, we need to develop and strengthen our border security with multiple improvements. For these reasons, we need to form border security zones and buffer zones until there are reasonable new regulations at the borders. Mr. President, we have high-value lawmakers, martyrs who have died in war, in homeland missions and in the fight against terrorism, and we have a lot of gas. The differences and flaws in various legal regulations - including all of our veterans and their families - including their descriptions - will be resolved, including financial, spiritual aid and services to them and to their relatives. We also need to make improvements to the rights of national defense and our armed forces and all personnel on the force. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0092par0073	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu, thank you. Against the Republican People's Party proposal, Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari, please.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0093par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a promise against the Republican People's Party's research motion, but we're basically at the ultraleh of this issue. I'm going to explain why we're in your favor in a moment, but before that, if the Republican People's Party MP listens, there's something more important, I'm going to express it, and then I'm going to express our views on this matter.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0094par0078	I'm listening, but your friends aren't listening.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0093par0079	It's been in the press today, it's been in the press since yesterday. There are Kurdish songs in Nezih Ünen's Repertoire, which are the architect of the lost songs of Anatolian province of Cumhuriyet People's People's Party Aydın. He cancelled his concert, saying, "You must know." He has his own statements. He says he talked to the mayor and that if you don't release the Kurdish songs from your repertoire, we'll cancel your concert. He says it's been called, and for that reason his concert has been canceled. It's been in the press since yesterday. In this regard, I think, the Republican People's Party should have an explanation for this situation, you need to bring an explanation. I invite you here to make a statement regarding this matter. And let me put it this way, as a matter of interest in the subject of this research motion, we are primarily for the removal of mandatory military service. I want to express that the concept of military service is no longer acceptable in this day and age. In Turkey, we live in an environment where the right to conscientious rejection is not recognised, which, together with the concept of mandatory military service, is fundamentally meaningful, because where there is obligatory military rejection, there is a concept of fucking denial, which is meaningful. The concept of non-violent rejection is not valid in the countries with such systems. Anyway, whoever wants to go there is doing the military service, but where there's mandatory military service in our country, there's gotta be, like, a right to conscientious rejection. In this regard, look, every time Israel is criticized by its practices, but Israel is far behind, Turkey. There are about 4,000 conscientious objectors in Israel, and it is the legal right that women like Israel are a country where all men are put into military service, Israel, but Turkey is very, very far behind. The second important thing is that the army is still a closed box in Turkey. There's no way we'll ever have any knowledge of military practices. This closed box needs to be opened. We need to know what's in this box, what's going on in the barracks. But neither as a parliament nor as a normal civilian citizen has the chance to know that, those who live in Turkey. That's where it all stays. Look, over the years, the PKK shot guerrillas. It was said, "A lot of people were put in prison. For 15 days, lice was burned down and destroyed." Years later, look, twenty years later, the truth came to light, twenty years after whom Bahtiyar Aydın had been slaughtered in lice. Do you have to wait 20 years to understand a truth, to see a truth? Or what's the Clave waiting for to investigate suicides that have been reported as accidents in the barracks until the courts? Why is he being put out? From the practices in the barracks, civil citizens living in Turkey, if we have information, what does the military value or what does it lose? It's easy, we go out to all the politicians, where we say, "Our army is strong, our army is strong." We have no objection. So, can you look into what's going on inside that powerful army? No. Can you look into what's going on inside an army that shot its own general? No. The Clave can't investigate any of these dark events. Just a few years ago, there was an assassination attempt on the Chief of Staff in Cyprus. Who was interested in Turkey? Who looked into it? How far did the House go? Another ranking officer behind the Chief of Staff has died, lost his life. Who investigated this? Don't you ever think about it? As for the matter of time... let's give up this love of uniform. We don't have to be soldiers. We call them soldiers. You can't be anything until you've finished college, become a doctor, become a sociologist, become an engineer, I don't know, an engineer. Can't you live in this country without wearing boots? Why do we have to go to college and put boots on a scientist who's given years to clean up the district? What is this love? Four months, six months... it's a shame if you put him in one day. It's a shame to be dressed one day. Is there any volunteer police who would like to volunteer? Do you get forced police work done? No. No mandatory police work, no mandatory military service. There's no point in saying we were like this, hiding behind a hammock like that. This whole application needs to be eliminated. Otherwise, you can't fix this. Look, it's been said about these issues for years, there's been a lot of research proposals, a lot of law proposals, a lot of questions. We've never had a healthy answer for any of them, not a healthy answer. The budget for military spending in this country is nearly half the budget for other ministries. You don't know about the covert funding, you don't know about the tenders, you don't know anything about them, and then we come back and we're as good as this, we have this much power. None of this makes any sense. There is no force in the world that can maintain its own existence with bayonet power, and Turkey will not be able to protect itself with bayonet power. With science, with wisdom, you can protect yourself, protect yourself with strong democracy. It is of no use to Turkey to make everyone a soldier. And this doesn't hold up anymore. Because there are about 1 million deserters in Turkey. The Prime Minister gives you 600 grand, but that's not the real number. There are citizens who do not go to the army, who have also taken refuge behind these grounds -- all in the sum of over 1 million -- the statement of the minister of national defense the previous year -- about a 950,000-strong deserter army -- in order to benefit from paying military service. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, yes, applications within the military must be investigated.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0095par0091	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0093par0092	The discovery of injustice in this matter is also worth investigating. That's why I said we're in your favor, but I also want to stress that this isn't about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0095par0095	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0096par0096	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit02spe0095par0097	I submit to your votes the Republican People's Party Group's proposal -- I will look for a sufficient number of votes -- those who agree... those who refuse -- there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Justice and Development Party's...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0097par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0098par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0007	Sir...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0098par0008	Mr. President, during his speech earlier, Mr. Orator, he made a statement at the Kuşadasi City Hall about an incident that didn't really exist, which was contrary to the truth, correcting...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0009	But I'm on a break.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0098par0010	We're taking a break because we want roll call, so...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0011	But no, it's not according to the Civil Code. It's not really happening, then you should have told me. And as you can see, the Civil Code came immediately.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0099par0012	State your position.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0013	You can ask according to 69.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0100par0014	Yes, I want the right to explain according to 69.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0015	I'm sorry, wait a minute, my head shorted out! For explanations and answers, the president appreciates the time to make a commitment in the same session. I mean, I didn't notice, you didn't ask, we took a break, so it's not happening.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0101par0018	Mr. President, he requested it, and when I asked him for a roll call, he went to the noise.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0019	But I didn't see it...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0102par0020	So we can explain from our position.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0021	Look, Mr. Slim knows. So don't push me. Do I really give myself two minutes? So it's worth two minutes of your time? It's not. But at least correct it from there, so it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0102par0022	Mr. President, let me get this straight, so I don't have to come to the stand.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0095par0023	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0102par0026	Now, Mr. orator, at a festival in Kuşadası, he stated that the event called "The Lost Songs of Anadolu" was cancelled because it contained the Kurdish song. This isn't real. Our mayor of Kuşadas has made a statement to the press about this. At the Sister Cities Festival, which has been going on for four years, the time of the event has been delayed because of the absence of the festival's honorary program, and therefore only has been postponed to perform songs from all the languages of Asia Minor, songs from all the languages of the world, especially in the name of the Lost Songs of Anadolu itself. Mr. Mayor has a statement to the press about this. I want him on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0103par0029	Okay, thank you, thank you. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code: I shall have it read and processed, and I will give it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Wednesday (30/10/2013), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly's approval, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President 492, 490, 477, 105, 421, 399, 399, 379, 440, 447 and 54 of the drafting and drafting of law proposals in the section "The Law Bills and Other Affairs From Commissions" of the agenda, and the addition of other tasks to the rankings of 3, 4, 5, 6, 6, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 · Global Voices Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak and 102 MPs have proposed a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating Turkish sports and other parliamentary research motions on this matter read by the General Assembly on Tuesday (November 5th 2013) and co-operated with talks on the same day. On Tuesday (November 12, 19 and 26, 2013), the meeting of other audit issues, following the discussion of oral questions, was not discussed for an hour, and the discussion of other jobs involved in the agenda "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," The combinations of 5, 6, 13, 20 and 27 November 2013 did not discuss verbal questions, On Wednesday, October 30, 2013, until the completion of talks with Law Proposal No. 492 (today), On Thursday, October 31st, 2013, it's 21 o'clock. Until 00; It's 24 a.m. on Tuesday, November 5, 2013. Until 00 p.m., It's 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, November 6, 2013. Until the meeting at 00 and the completion of the talks on the works of the Law Bill 477 rows in this merger, Thursday, November 7, 2013, 14 o'clock. Until the meeting at 00 and the meeting of the work until Bill 383 are completed, On Tuesday, November 12, 19, and November 26, 2013, 15:00-20. Between 00 hours, 13, 14, 20, 21, 27, and 28 November 2013 were merged Wednesday and Thursday at 2400-20. Between 00 hours, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that daily programs cannot be completed at 00, they will continue to work until the day-to-day programmes are completed. The draft laws of 490 and 477 rows shall be considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code, and its sections shall be as follows: It's recommended. Bill on the Protection of consumers 490 rows [[1/787]] Chapters Partial Matters Number of Matters in Division Chapter 1 - Article 30 Chapter 2 Episode 31 - 60 Chapter 3 Episode 61 to 88 (including Interim Article 1) 29 The Constitutional Court's Institution of 477 rows and the Law on Judicial Laws and the Amendment to Some Laws [[1/774]] Chapters Partial Matters Number of Matters in Division Chapter 1 - Article 6 (Episode 2 of the 6th article and 7 (including additives 3 (conclusion 3) Chapter 2 Episode 7 - Article 5 In favor of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Mr. Idris Şahin, the Chandırı MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0104par0075	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on behalf of the AK PARTY group proposal. I salute your high council. First of all, the EC PARTY group proposal includes an agenda, working hours, and a regulation of basic laws. Our group's proposal, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, was brought to Parliament's agenda as follows, since the Council of Counsellors' 30/10/2013 meeting today could not be unanimous among political party groups. In other words, it is recommended that 492, 490, 477, 105, 421, 359, 399, 399, 379, 440, 447, 447, 447, drafting and drafting of law proposals 3, 4, 5, 6, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. In addition, the law proposal was taken to the third place on the agenda for the change of the name of the district of Aydınlar, in the district of Siirt, in the district of Hacı Bektaş Veli, the district of Nevşehir University, which was expressed in the democratisation package. Again, the draft law on consumer protection is on the fourth time on the agenda. The Constitutional Court bill has been placed on the top of the agenda. Again, contracts on Azerbaijan have been raised since the sixth period of the agenda. It is also organised by our proposal for November hours and recommends an hour-an-hour oral question on Tuesdays between 3:00 and 8:00 p.m., and the non-verbal questions on Wednesdays and Wednesdays between 2:00 and 8:00 p.m. Also, this week and next week, work hours are being rearranged. As I have just stated, it is recommended that the House work until the end of talks on the legal proposal to change the name of Nevşehir Hacı Bektas University and Aydınlar district to the name of the district of Aydıns. Again, tomorrow, Thursday, 21 o'clock. It is time to set the working hours until 00, and next Tuesday to discuss research proposals on doping, and it is 24 p.m. These talks are recommended to continue until 00. In addition, the Constitutional Court arrangement is being brought up next week on Wednesday, and Thursday is offered to complete talks on matters leading up to Bill 383. In the same time, the law on the protection of consumers, or Proposition 490, is also on the agenda of next week's resolution on the adoption of the co-operation protocol in media and information between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Azerbaijan. All of these include agendas, working hours, and proposals to bring up the two laws we're talking about as the main law. With his power, his opposition, and your support, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, which includes the working hours of next week and the hours of this week's work.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0105par0088	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Alderman Lütfü Türkkan is against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0106par0091	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party's group proposal has an incident that we've always heard about; they're constantly adding different items to the agenda to escape the control of the House, and that's the same thing here. They'll delay the order of the House's inspection until they can delay it and eventually give us the authority to judge themselves. Let us inspect it, and there will be no trial, and we will oversee it. This is not only happening in parliament, of course, but the ministry's budgets, the other state, they continue to insist on practices that will take control of the budgets of public institutions, just as they are missing from the Court's inspection of the budgets. I say again and again, it is your duty to run this House, but not by taking control of the House, but by making us use that authority to prevent you from making fewer mistakes, because the end of these mistakes will become more and more disastrous. All criticisms of the Court so far have found no serious responses, no promises. For the first time, a budget passed last time in Turkey's budget before the Court reports arrived. No one's been able to answer that properly. You continue to smuggle control of other public institutions from the Court. Reverends, what is it you want to miss here? Was there really corruption that wanted to be kidnapped, that you're in such a hurry, that you're being so unreasonable, that you're trying to keep it so secret? You're using every power given by the numerical majority to take control of these people to the fullest. Once again, this House has a duty to make you do little wrong at the same time. And for that, don't take away your control authority. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0107par0096	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0108par0100	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. I salute your high council. Our group proposal is about our predicting the working hours and agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. First of all, the agenda covers our proposals for working hours behind it and to be discussed as the basic law. On the agenda, as of today, we have a law proposal that includes a change in the name of the county and university. After that, we predict that the bill on consumers and the bill on the Constitutional Court will be discussed in the 4th and 5th places. Again, contracts related to Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) cover the sixth order of the agenda. This week and November, we predict that the working hours will be as follows: this week, as of today, we are predicting the hours of our Parliament's work until the end of the law proposal for a change of university and district name, so that by the end of today, by 9:00 p.m. Next week it's Tuesday 24th. We propose to the House that we work until 00, and Wednesdays, and Thursdays, until the end of the relevant laws. November's working hours are at 3:00 a.m. on Tuesday. As of 00, on Wednesdays, we offer the non-verbal questions to our General Assembly as a working schedule. On Wednesdays and Thursdays, the November work schedule is still 14th. We offer a recommendation to the General Assembly to start and finish by 20.00. In addition to all of this, it is still the title of our group proposal to discuss law bill 490 and 477 rows as the main law. With these suggestions, I offer my recommendation that you vote in favor of our group proposal, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0109par0108	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Against the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Mr. Muharrem Tünce, Yalova MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0112	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. The agenda, the hours of the House, it doesn't make any sense to me. So, the basic law before the AKP was used as a privilege, when a need was needed, now there are ten times its basic law. Adjective: E does not follow one of the other words you say, so that we may follow your agenda. Look at what Turkey is talking about today, what he talked about in 2008. We had a friend here, Hosni Tuna, AKP MP of the Conium. He made a statement, and he said: "Our goal, God willing, is that there is no such ban on public service or public service personnel." I give you the date: 24/01/2008. He immediately made another statement in 27 things: "These are not my views of my party, these are my views." On the same day, on the 27th day, Deputy Director Canikli said: "We only have one problem and it's our kids at the university." Two days passed, the Prime Minister made a statement, saying: "Our only goal is to know that we intend nothing but to end the victims of our girls at the college gates. " The Prime Minister himself said so. That's the kind of policy that hypocrite politics is a secret agenda that hides from the public. Because he spoke early, this time they disciplined Hosni Tuna on February 13th. On the grounds that the party acted contrary to discipline, they sent Husni Danube to discipline with a warning sentence, and on 8 April 2008 a warning sentence was issued to Konya MP Husni Tuna. It's a shame, isn't it? You're talking today, why did you punish your MP in 2008? Because he told you your intentions early? Now, my dear friends, look, after the European Court of Human Rights' decision on the case of Leyla Şahin, I read Mr. Bkent Arinc (14/11/2005): "If a public servant carrying a cross symbolizes Christianity, a Jew's cap or a Muslim headhead may give a public official a fear that he will not be able to act impartially, and he may not be able to give a message to anyone who tries to receive an equal service from him. That is why public officials are forbidden to wear religious symbols." I didn't say that, nor did Mr. President of the Republican People's Party. Says Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. So you have a secret agenda, so we do not believe you, and we do not trust you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0111par0117	People believe it, people!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0118	I have one question for you. It's limited to our college girls. You said, "Except for the public teacher, the judge, the prosecutor, the police." What's your agenda in five years? My question is: After five years, teachers can't enter with their heads open. Are you going to issue a decision? My question is so clear. Step by step, step by step... my question is, five years from now, the three-year-old will be wearing a turban. Do you know why you wait 11 years and bring it up today? The election is coming, the time of abuse, the season of abuse, it's time for abuse. The Ark is near, your votes are falling, my veiled sister in the squares. We will not make you say it, we will not make you do it, and know that we will not make you do it, and we will not make you do it. We're going to show people what kind of hypocritical policy you're running. Your old words... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] These words are not mine, but yours.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0112par0121	What's it to you?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0122	Ma'am, then you can wear it and come back tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0112par0123	It's my freedom, it's none of your business.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0124	Another, our friend, has gone on a pilgrimage, God willing, I have no objection.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0113par0125	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0126	But I'll tell you what, today he's making a statement...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0114par0127	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0115par0128	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0129	I'll go too, don't worry. I went somewhere with his friends, but I didn't share my photos, so we'll talk when the time comes. Look, our friend made a statement. Next thing I know, the congressman hasn't been on the stand in two and a half years. Yeah, well, you didn't talk to the uninsured women, you didn't talk to the unassigned teachers, and once you came to the stand, you didn't tell them about women's problems, you explained them: I'm clean, I'm here. So, the ones that don't close are dirty? What kind of logic is that? Is that even possible? You haven't been on the stand once, so you're going to be militant, which means that's your problem, which means you're not interested in Turkey's problems.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0116par0131	You're reading intentions again.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0132	You're going to change the Public Contraction Act 100 times, you're going to find Luckball, you're going to race the horsepower for seven days, you're going to find the Iddaa, you're going to find the bet, if you're going to double the gambling in Turkey, but you're going to put it somewhere, you want to exploit the political symbols by mixing them with religious symbols, and you want to take their vote.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0117par0133	The world's agenda is Marmaray.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0118par0134	Tabanvay is in Marmaray's stead.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0135	Didn't you pray to the American soldiers who killed Muslims while our Muslim brothers were killed? Didn't you trade secularism in Egypt and destroy secularism in your own country?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0118par0136	Yesterday's Marmaray, today's the day.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0137	Didn't you say that headscarf is 1.5 per cent problem in Turkey? Didn't you say, "We don't interfere with the lifestyle." Didn't you measure the size of the skirt? Didn't you guys fight and build?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0119par0138	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0139	Didn't you say that my daughters couldn't read because of the turban? Did you not send your boys to America to study? Did you not object to the public staff announcing their ideology, giving them a fine and publicly declaring their religious beliefs? Aren't you the one who didn't ask about the cult and send the state official to the funeral ceremony of the fallen Alevi boy? Aren't you the one who discriminated against our citizens who were killed as a result of the terrorist attack? Aren't you the one who says, "May the trial of those who have burned 35 of our citizens be good when the statute of limitations has passed?" Isn't this the government, this nation, this government, that created a life with interest? My dear friends, you are exploiting this. You destroyed freedoms in Turkey. There is no freedom of communication, there is no freedom of travel in Turkey; you speak of freedom today. The Muslims split in two. One, Muslims like us have been Muslims since the calubela, and one, after the AKP.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0120par0143	That's a dirty thing to say.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0144	Your understanding of Islam, your understanding of Islam, is based on a flawed understanding.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0121par0145	You're way behind.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0146	▪ Touching the prime minister is a prayer. Those who accept the birth of the Prime Minister and the cities where he lives are blessed...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0122par0147	It's not like that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0148	Those who pray for the Prime Minister are supposed to go to Kazlışmış. Those who say, "This is the circumcision of Recep Tayyip Erdogan." Those who say, "This is the circumcision of a disabled Islamic understanding." We didn't make these insights, you did all these insights, Congressman. Look, my dear friends, it doesn't matter if a female friend of ours comes to the House with a turban.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0122par0150	The headscarf.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0151	The headscarf, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0122par0152	It's important.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0110par0153	You know what's important? This is to save the dignity of the House, this is to save the honor of the House. The important thing is that the Court's reports don't come to Parliament, it's corruption, corruption. (HPP) It's corruption, theft, orphans' rights, abuse of religion, remembering religion when the election approaches. That's cheating the poor nation, this poor nation, that's exploiting them. What are you talking about, deputy? You're a congressman, I'm a congressman. It doesn't matter if it's power-to-responsibility. If the Court reports have not arrived, this Parliament has been insulted. Who are you? The Court supervises Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Who are you to send these reports to the House? There's no man among you who's going to come out. This is how the honor of the House is saved, the dignity of the Assembly is preserved! Otherwise, no one's thought of anything in the last ninety-three years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're not the only one awake. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0123par0158	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0160	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0123par0161	Congressmans, would you please shut up, Mr. Line will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. First of all, I wish our esteemed president, who has returned from the pilgrimage, good luck again. Mr. Group Vice President's speech, I watched with great surprise and surprise. You've combined the agenda with your answer to the work we've done on the Parliamentary studies. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0125par0168	Sure, no problem.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0169	Please stop doing politics over women, over religion and through their headscarf. There's no bread for you and there's no bread for us. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP rows) I'd like to say this first.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0126par0170	You let go, you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0171	Dear lawmakers, some or all of our friends who have done their pilgrimage duty have decided to use a headscarf in their next private life, and they want to come to Parliament like this. Hajj season...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0127par0172	You think it's election time, where's he been for 11 years?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0173	If you'll excuse me... first of all, learn to listen, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. I have listened to you with great respect, please listen.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0128par0175	The same female MP went on a pilgrimage last year. Why didn't he do it last year?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0176	Our friends shared their decisions with the media. There are no permissions or concessions in these matters. With their own families and consciences about their private lives, they decided to live their lives like this. As lawmakers, we respect that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0129par0177	We didn't say anything, we didn't say anything.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0178	I'm sure you're democratic and... as it is written in the Constitution of the Constitution -- my lord, you know -- in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it says that it is a democratic, secular, social state. In the form of democracy, these friends of ours can come in headscarf, in the sense of secularism, and in the need to be a law state, they can come in headscarf. We, the 24th-century MP, welcome them here and continue their work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to say that I regret your statement about our friends not speaking in Congress.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0129par0181	No, dear. Look at the transcripts. Did he talk?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0182	Maybe.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0129par0184	He never spoke, never stood up once.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0185	The legislature isn't just talking in Congress, in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0130par0186	Dear Line, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0188	Mr. President, can I have three more seconds?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0130par0189	No, we can't break the rules, Mr. President, we never did.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0124par0190	Hopefully, these friends of ours will be in Congress tomorrow. I wish them good luck again, my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0131par0192	Good luck to Turkey, to Turkey.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0130par0196	I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will begin the open vote of the Dair Law Charter, which is part of the agenda's "To-vote" section, in which the Co-ordinating Committee Agreement is appropriate in the Southeastern European Defence Minister's Process Framework. The open vote has been approved with an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote by the Dair Law Bill, the adoption of the Co-ordinating Committee Agreement on the Southeastern European Defence Minister's Process Frame: [[xx]] The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the legislation and proposals of the agenda and other tasks from the commissions. We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off in the 1st ranking Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Adjudication Proclamation Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Mr Ahmet Erdal Feralan and Chair MP Afif Demirkıran, who has been ranked in the 3rd place, and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. The Commission and the Government are here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 492 rows. On top of the whole proposal, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak for him... no. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sırı Sakık, come in to discuss the entire proposal of the law. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] You have 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0231	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with respect and love. I'd like to share with you what we think as the BDP Group, what we discuss. Now, in recent days, with this package of democratisation brought up by Mr. Prime Minister's statement, we're going to meet today, it's going to be law, here's what we've told you about the fact that the Enlightenment is "Tillo" and that Nevşehir University is "Hacı Bektas Veli University" and we've shared our thoughts with you. So when we talked about these basic problems, we didn't learn from it, even though life has shown us that we can't solve problems by giving less and more time without naming them. Now, look, this law that we're going to discuss today begins in the 1940s, starting in the Black Sea, all the way to Thrace, and coming from there, from Anatolia to Mesopotamia, from Kurdistan, is an understanding that changes the names of all villages, cities, so to this day, we're making up for them, as we say in the 1940s. Well, in that time, 30,000 villages, the city name was changed, but we're looking back today, we're talking about a big revolution: we're going to do the name of the Light, the name of the University, the name of Bektas Veli, and we're going to solve the problems of the Alevis. We just testified here. Restitution of so-called extortion rights from here... and on the other hand, the turban came up immediately. I'd like to share with you our thoughts on the turban. Look, my dear friends, after the 2011 elections, this group made an offer to free the headscarf in every aspect of life, but your heart wasn't enough; you turned around, you took it back. We said, "You can't touch women not just in Parliament, not in college, but in every aspect of life." She decides for herself; whether she covers her head or opens her head, that's her problem. If you're going to decide in Parliament... why shouldn't the MPs be headscarfed and the law enforcement headscarfed? Come, if you can, call it yes. But no, your goal is to save the day with little. And tomorrow, if I'm not mistaken, some of our congressman friends will be here. We have no objection, but we have a criticism. These struggles are not simply a series of battles, but a point that comes with a lot of hard work and a lot of price. Don't be unfair to Merve. Don't be unfair to those who have rejected Parliament here by their backsliding hands, and fought for the headscarf for many years in the AKP Group, for the headscarf. These people pushed Parliament and its mayors against their will for their beliefs. If so, the 24th-century MPs should not come here in such a manner, they should leave, in the 25th century, to swear with their headscarves that if they have paid the price, let them come out and swear with their headscarf and their beliefs. Do it if you can and don't try to save the day. That's what we think of the turban, plain and simple. Do not commit injustice and theft to the laborers. And I've known a lot of our friends in the past, and today you're going to live freely in every aspect of life for the next 50 years about the turban. I've been there today, sir, I want to be covered... lt's your problem, but be respectful of it. Now, my dear friends, look, 30,000 villages. The names of 30,000 villages and the names of the provinces have been changed in them, and a process that has come to date from the 1940s. If you had been sincere in one process... this package of democratization -- look, our right criticism -- is an indication of how right we are. You really don't have a problem with implementing democracy and freedoms, prohibitions, democracy and freedoms, you don't stand up to the bans. If you were sincere, you would do one thing: Not only about Tillo, but about Haci Bektas Veli, who received 30,000 changes, whose names were assimilated, rejected, and denied. These names could be changed in all areas of Rize, in Tripoli, in Edirne, in the servants, and in all parts of Turkey. We have a proposal from our friend, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, and with this bill, I'll return them... but you didn't co-operate, you didn't partner up in anything, you didn't partner up here. Look, 169 in Adana, 366 in Erzincan, 366 in Turkey, 647 in Mardin, 224 in Adıyaman, 653 in Erzurum, 88 in Turkey, 88 in Eskişehir, 70 in Eskişehir, 297 in Turkey, 374 in Ağrı, 374 in Turkey, 279 in Gaziantep, 24 in Nevşehir, 24 in Central Anatolia -- I couldn't read it as a whole -- numbers in certain places, but in different peoples, cultures, villages, 88 in Afyon. If you were sincere, it'd be 30,000 and then 280 after September 12th, including how many places, you'd change them into a whole, but you don't do them. You turn around, you try to do exactly the same policies that have been implemented from the past to this day, and if you want to solve a problem, you have to name it. Return to the 1920s of the republic, which we celebrated yesterday's 90th year, where the speakers, the Kurdish MPs, are Kurdistan MP, the Laz MPs are Laz MP, they are called, they are written as such, but today the period of 90 years has passed, the period of which we still had written the unknown language, and now it's written what's written. Now, if you want to solve a people's problems, you're going to have to accept them first. There's a Kurdish people, there's a Kurdish people, there's a Kurdish people's land. The name of this land is Kurdistan. You will set Kurdistan free. You will accept the Kurdish truth at the level of law and Constitution. The ship you hit on the Kurdish tongue, the rejection, denial, assimilation, you will eliminate it immediately. You will design your laws, your Constitution, but if the name of my geography is still prohibited, there will still be no education in the Kurdish language. You cannot solve the fundamental problems of Turkey with the change you are going to make here today. The only thing you have to do is come out and say, "Yes, in the 1920s, this truth was underlined, and then the politics of rejection and denial were implemented, and today we turn around and apologize to these people. For that reason, these people have a truth, a language, an identity, and a land where they live. The name of this land is Kurdistan, and it is the Kurdish people. You need to be educated in the native language. If you accept the fact of Tillo, you must accept education in the native language. Now, on the one hand, I'm sorry about Dersim, but this law doesn't have the name of Dersim. So, when are we going to make this happen? There is no education in the mother tongue, they say. Without education in the native language, there will be no inner peace. The Kurds have been struggling for 90 years, and if they fight, it's to express themselves freely in their native language. Just as your native language is a right, so is the Kurdish mother tongue, and now the main opposition party says education will divide the country in the main language, the ruling party says the same thing. Brother, why should our language divide your country? If our language doesn't exist in this country, this country means nothing to us.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0133par0244	It's your country, isn't it, your country?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0245	If a brotherhood law doesn't exist, our existence doesn't mean anything in this country, and it doesn't mean anything. We have to respect each other's law. Godspeed, go to the State about the turban, go to the State Department about our oath. Be on your way, you find a way, you go, and a congressman comes along, and on TV, he says, "Look, it's not too innocent to change the names of the town. " The so-called left-wing, social-democratic party. If the names of the cities are changed, it's a very serious thing, Turkey can't get under it, he says. This is Tillo and Nevşehir University talks on the Commission, while another MP says, "How can this happen?" and votes against it. Now I'm asking that MP, sir, the name Aydın is a very bright name. Why is it Tillo? Your name is Nur. Well, if I say it's dark, will you accept it? The more unfair it is to you, the more unjust it is to stand against the names of those cities and villages, and the more unjust it is to turn to the State about this racist, segregating oath and ask for help from these places.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0134par0247	Why is that a shame? When was it rude to go to law school? You've never filed a lawsuit? The secret is, haven't you ever filed a lawsuit?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0248	I...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0134par0249	No, you didn't sue? Why is it rude to seek judgment?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0250	Now, look, about the oath, I'm gonna go...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0134par0251	Yeah, that's your understanding, brother, speak for yourself. What are you doing with my class?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0252	... suing, that monogamous, racist, segregating oath, going out and suing is fascism, racism, and for years...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0135par0253	What's that PKK anthem you sing in your congresses?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0254	...all understanding and monotheism that applies to Kurdish children.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0136par0255	Well, if he's looking for rights, how dare you?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0256	Now, how can you find the other law here? It's absurd for someone from my class to say so.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0137par0257	The AKP considers it a crime to go to the Constitutional Court, and you have the same logic.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0258	Look, I know exactly what I'm saying, I know exactly what I'm saying, I know exactly what I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0259	You're not racist when you sing the PKK anthem, they're so legitimate!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0260	If there's a main opposition party in Turkey that demonstrates this stance, we have something to say about it. If you guys go out and trigger racism, nationalism, we'll say you're racist, we'll say you're discrimination.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0261	You're the racist.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0262	You're the racist! You've got your racism and fascism all over you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0264	You're the one who's paying for terrorism. You're the one who sings those anthems. You're the one who asked for Kurdish names. You're just saying that to cover up your own racism. It's not racism. You can't call Turkish people racists!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0265	We know you, we know you, we know you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0266	He knows you, too.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0267	Last semester...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0139par0268	Mr. Sakık, please address the General Board... Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0269	Everyone knows how you compromise with the PKK. You're not an independent MP, you're under the care of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0270	Look, I don't really want to talk to you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0271	I don't give a damn about you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0272	I never take you. I'm not getting any, and I don't want to get any. There was a different version of you last semester, so God bless you during this period. That's who you are.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0138par0273	Look at you! Look at what you've done!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0274	I know what I'm doing. I look, today...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0140par0275	Mr. Sakık, address the General Assembly. Mr. Yilmaz, please... please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0276	Dear friends, today is the day we were taken from here in 1994 to fight for democracy and freedom and punished. We don't want to be too public about what we're saying.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0141par0277	It's like you're the only ones who've been let in.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0278	We're fighting for freedom...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0141par0279	You're not the only ones who've been let in!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0280	Don't talk too much.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0142par0281	Listen, listen... if you have something to say, say it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0282	Now, my dear friends, we don't want to get into too many polemics. And don't let anyone give us a lesson in democracy. How we came from, where we came from, how we made this people out of nothing, all friends and enemies know. For 90 years, we have come from a tradition that has been ruthlessly disobedient to your denial and denial policies, even to death. We, Kurdish children, Kurdish people, have been resisting your denial and denial policies for years, we are in the dungeon, we are in the mountain, we are in the field, we are in the field, we will continue to exist. Until we win these rights, we will continue our fight against fascist and racist people like you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0143par0283	And we will fight against you, racists like you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0284	Now, look, dear friends, while I'm bringing these, on the other hand, I want you to turn around and... Look, I'd like to emphasize a few examples of your applications. Now, you're trying to set them free, and on the other hand, our Diyarbakır Kayapınar municipality, for example, calls a park the following. The name of Beybun is daisy. The governors at your disposal are banning the name of this park, and look what's going on here. Now, you can't even stand the name of a flower, so we criticize them, but you're on their trail. Your governors are still doing it. What does the Prime Minister say? He's talking about Cegerxwin, all the Kurdish scholars, all the things. What's going on? We name a park after Cegerxwin, but your governor forbids the name of Cegerxwin. Our municipalities call it berfin. You all know the name Berfin, you have an understanding that even these innocent names are forbidden. There's a terrible distinction between this proposal of law today and these prohibitions. Now, how do you explain all this? As a whole when the road is near, if you really want to solve this problem, you have to name it without fear. There's the Kurdish truth, we're going to solve the Kurdish problems together, and together we're going to make a new constitutional arrangement, build the democratic rights of the Kurds. Are you up for that? If you're in, we'll take a ride with you, but we don't. There's been no blood in this country for eight or ten months, people haven't died in eight or ten months. History, life has given you an important opportunity, let's take this opportunity together. E is going through a process this important, but you're still going around with arguments from the past... some of them are still building these huge projects, my main opposition party is spinning around the headscarf. You're going around the names of the Kurds, of the village, of the city. You can't build a brotherhood like this, you can't create the law of living together like this. My friendly suggestion to you is that at this point, you, especially the district MPs, should be able to come out and say it. This problem is not just our problem, it is the problem of everyone in this country. Go out with him, tell Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President. It's piety. Isn't it a virtue to step back on certain matters? Isn't it an apology that Mr. President gave an award for art and culture regarding Ahmet Kaya? It's important. Look, there's a need for mutual gestures to heal these wounds. You have a chance to do that, too. We can all heal the nine years of Kurds together. We have done so much injustice to this brotherly community, we can all eliminate this persecution together. That's the mission of Parliament, that's the duty of the political world, but we can't just design politics by pledging allegiance to our presidents, our party. I mean, there's a political party law, there's a election law that just swear and come here. What if you don't come? So many people have come and gone from here, so many of them can't be read, many of them in the dumpster of history. Those who persecute your people are buried in the garbage of history. Let's all solve these people's problems together. Let's solve the problem by witnessing history, by taking responsibility together, by actually putting the name of the problem. In this country, yes, the rights of Kurds have been taken, the rights of other peoples have been taken. Look, in this country, 40 percent of the pre-Republic era were non-Muslims.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0144par0288	Where, where, in Anatolia?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0132par0289	Today, only 1 percent of the population in this country are non-Muslims. We've killed them all, plundered them, driven them from this land. There's only one people left that you can't drive, and that's the Kurds, and all of us...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0145par0291	Why did you kill the Armenians?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0146par0292	Why did you kill him?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0147par0293	If you hadn't killed him, they would have said.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0145par0294	Seriously, why did you kill these Armenians?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0148par0295	I thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0149par0297	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0150par0298	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0151par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0152par0300	Wait a minute... so, one at a time, what happened together?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0150par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0152par0302	No, Mr. Tünce got up first, then Mr. Turkkan, then Mr. Kaplan. I will. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0304	Mr. Sakak, by accusing our group of racists...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0152par0305	Sir...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0306	Mr. President, I have health problems; I don't sound very well.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0152par0307	Here, we're in the same boat.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0308	I'd like to answer if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0152par0309	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0312	It was racist to sue, go to court, go to law enforcement, but we learned that because of Mr. Sakık's knowledge of the law.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0154par0313	It's racist when you apply to lift our vows.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0314	But for 11 years, we've said some things in this House that we've been very angry about, but for example, I've never said anything like, you're not the owners of this country. From the Balkans, from the Caucasus, even from the Bosniaks, you will know your place, he says. Isn't that really racist? I don't remember ever saying that, for example. My dear friends, members of lawmakers, I don't think it's important that his name is Dersim, his name is Tillo, he's Bektas Veli.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0154par0316	We think it's important.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0317	You know what's important? What would happen if he were from Tunceli? Have you ever made a Tunceli, a Tunceli general manager, an undersecretary, a principal in your 11 years of power? Did you make one of them, one of them, one of them a police officer? You're not gonna do any of this, and then you're gonna get one... and then, here, you're gonna give you a name.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0155par0318	We made President of the Federation.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0319	Suat, don't talk to me like that, don't talk behind my back! Get in front of me, talk like that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0155par0321	I've made the president of the federation, Muharrem.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0153par0322	Now, look, another thing that matters is what you do. Another is, lawmakers, big states don't deal with symbols. If you mess with our oath, the Istrillal March comes next, my heroic race says. The German national anthem, the British national anthem, the American national anthem, all of them have a racial slur, but after a hundred years, two hundred years, three hundred years, a French, a German, an Englishman, they don't want to say they're too old-fashioned, they don't want to change that. Only the people of this land can think of it. If you touch your symbols, you won't be able to live in this land. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Great nations, great states don't touch their anthems, their symbols, their symbols, their values, their values, but those with complexes touch them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0156par0328	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0157par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0158par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0156par0331	One minute at a time. Yes, Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0159par0333	Mr. President, a region called Kurdistan (Kürdistan), which Mr. Hatti has spent on the parliamentary bench, does not exist in Turkey. I'd like to ask the MHP Group to release that word from the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0160par0334	Then there'll be no reports.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0161par0335	No, there's no such word, nowhere.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0159par0336	There is a Southeast Anatolian region and an Eastern Anatolian region in that region. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0162par0338	Not according to you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0339	Okay. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0164par0341	Then you can take out the words of Ataturk.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0342	Wait a minute, before I listen, it's not like that. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0165par0344	Mr. President, although I've made several statements from a previous conversation in the Balkans and Caucasus...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0345	Now, wait a second... Mr. Kaplan, why you?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0166par0347	My main issue is...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0348	But the average is two, two, four minutes. I'll give it to one of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0167par0349	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0350	I get it, Reverend. I get it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0168par0351	That's different, I'm different.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0352	What's it to you, Reverend?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0168par0353	I personally have a request for a proposal from the law.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0163par0354	We can't finish this. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0169par0357	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. Look, this racist oath, it's not my symbol, it's not my memory. I don't care whose symbol it is or whose oath it is.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0170par0359	We're not screwing around.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0169par0360	Knock on your head.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0170par0361	We're crowning.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0169par0362	You'll be crowned, whatever you want.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0171par0363	Is that logic the right logic? Is that the right thing to say? Then you take everything you've said so far and play it by yourself.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0172par0364	He's welcome.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0169par0365	That's exactly what I've said in a speech I've been doing here for years, and I'm signing under it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0172par0366	He's welcome.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0173par0367	We're crowning.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0174par0368	You're talking about unity, unity...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0175par0369	I said, "Hey, you who come from the Balkans and the Caucasus, you who are persecuted, you who come and take this land home, you own this land as much as we do, but you come here and become racist and...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0176par0370	There are no bigger racists than you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0175par0371	...here, if you have been subjected to the persecution of the Serbs in Bosnia. If you come here and become Serbs against Kurds, against Alevis, know your place. I'll sign it again.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0177par0372	So you're the one who's Serbian. You're the ones who slaughtered people.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0175par0373	Otherwise, we've made it clear and clear that I don't have any objections to Bosnia, Balkans, Caucasians, because they're racist, and that's what we're saying today. Another issue is Kurdistan. You will remove Kurdistan from the reports of Mustafa Kemal. Do you know where Kurdistan is? Kurdistan, a week ago, you, you and the three of you, voted and bombed together, the land is called Kurdistan, Northern Kurdistan, South Kurdistan, East Kurdistan, and Rojava Kurdistan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0178par0375	Within Turkey's borders, Kurdistan does not exist within the borders of Misakimilli.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0175par0376	...and that Kurdistan existed before you, it will continue to exist, and the Kurdish people will also exist in Kurdistan and will move on. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0179par0379	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0180par0380	Mr. Kaplan, what was that about?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0179par0381	Mr. President, I have a procedural objection beyond these arguments. The proposal -492 - is to change a university name and to have the name ▪Tillo. I have an offer on the law, and on the same subject...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0180par0382	Okay, here you go. You don't fight alone, so I'll make a deal.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0181par0383	It's not a fight.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0180par0384	No, it's too much to ask for. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0182par0388	Mr. President, thank you. Guys, take a good look at this bill. The latest number is October 7, 2011, 39, about changing the name of the village names, mezzaries, meras, rivers. Now, with this offer sitting in the House, this offer is coming in, and this offer is not going down to the commission. Our offer was made exactly three years ago, and the commissioner is here, and the commissioners are here -- they're not taking it down.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0183par0391	They don't?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0182par0392	In Turkey, there are proposals, laws that have changed the names of the Georgians, the nurses, the Lazler, the Aegeans, the Interior Anatolian, the Mediterranean, and Kurdistan in 1949 -- yes, I call Kurdistan -- that have wiped out all their memories, changed their names, and over 30,000 registered changes. What we're offering here is a very problem-solving offer that allows us to use it together, along with old names. The commission doesn't call, it doesn't call the bidder, it doesn't discuss the proposal, it's pirated through the commission, the name Tillo, and it's being brought to Parliament. That's not legalization, guys. You can't be so crude. You've been in power for ten years. You can't be so clumsy. Mr. President, this is missing. That offer needs to be taken back. We have a previous offer. There's a presidential flaw in that. There's been a mistake from the Speaker to the Commission. We'd like to withdraw the offer, and I'd like to request that a new law proposal come to the House under our proposal.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0184par0396	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0182par0397	We'd like to hear from both the Minister and the Commission on this matter. We'll have a procedural debate if we have to.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0184par0399	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. Except, now, the lawyers gave me a paper, but I'm not going to read it. I want to tell you how I feel. My brother, whatever work is broken, you bring it in my day and try to fix it. I don't understand how this works. How many people ran it before me? There's the President of the House. No one's going, I'm running it, you're bringing in nothing, nothing, nothing. I won't accept it from now on. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0185par0409	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to change the name of a university and the name of a county. I salute your high council. In a speech made by the Commission, the Minister of Culture and Tourism said it was very flattering for a culture minister to express the existence of 293 churches in the Cappadocia area alone. Yes, it's hard not to join the Minister because you will not find the wealth found in Anatolia in any other geography of the world. The culture of Asia Minor has always felt its own weight, and even the solution to a wicked event on the other side of the world has been found on this Anatolian territory. The tolerance of Asia Minor is described by its love. To fight against every hater, to make sure that the places of worship are next to each other, and to be greeted with the words of Mevlana, whatever you may be. Those who have convinced themselves that you will never be forgiven. Haci Bektas Veli, who raised the lion and the gazelle in the same sheep, was told to the brothers of the enemy. Here, Asia Minor has provided us with these things, screaming from this land for centuries to come. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, despite all of this, we say everything well, we say it well. And we can't do one thing: we who live in the same land, share the same air, and drink the same water, we don't have the sense to carry on what's good, what's right, what's good. It's a pity we think it's all right to destroy the good, the good, and do what's right for you. We defend our thoughts at extreme points and use them as a weapon against each other. We cast aside the sincerity, understanding, tolerance, and love that Asia Minor gave us. Dear MPs, the name Nevşehir University of Nevşehir is a good decision, although it is late to be named Haci Bektas Veli. However, Haci Bektas will do master's and PhD programmes on Veli's thoughts, develop written documentation of Alevi-Bektashi culture, and within the university, the Institute for Research of Haci Bektas Veli, Alevi-Bekshi culture must be established. It was also expressed by the President who joined our Commission that it was important for the development of this university and for the creation of the written documentation of Alevi-Bektashi culture, which is missing from Turkey. In this way, we will be able to better describe the vast wealth of Anatolian Bektas Veli, and land on the roots of our cultural and historical heritage within the university that bears its name. Just as the excavations in Istanbul have now taken us eight, five hundred years ago, we will dig up our wealth and present it to the hearts of our people, together with our university. Dear lawmakers, in addition to this beautiful development, the problems of our universities are unfortunately continuing. The quality issue of our universities, while academic, administrative and financial autonomy problems are still in the air, and more importantly, while the CEC Act, the product of the September 12 coup, continues, it is not appropriate to connect our country's future to the current university structure and to expect progress depending on it. For some reason, the AKP government, which put the removal of the ECHR on its emergency action plan in 2002, still failed to lift the RCC. In their own way, they have established pressure that was not in the times of the military coup. As the Republican People's Party, I would like to reiterate our proposal on the RDC: the existing structure must be destroyed immediately. As a general director at the Ministry of Education, Science, Industry and Technology, there should be a unit that plans national human power resources, which contributes to universities' guidance in education and research activities, collects national data about universities and shares that data as annual reports. The centrist, guardian and controller approach, caused by the ECK, prevents people from working at full capacity with all their energy to achieve their goals, prevents the development of capacity across the country, leading to success. This model from the Industrial Revolution must change. Unfortunately, this model is narrow to the information-based, economics and society, rapidly changing and internationally changing higher education institutions. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that the AKP is no longer able to tolerate anything that isn't like it, which is not like it, and that it spreads its view in all areas of society, but is also involved in universities that need to be independent, and it creates serious pressure. Finally, a helicopter-led, special-action, nimble-strength intervention at the Middle East Technical University is the most concrete indicator of what extent the AKP's idea has reached. It's a pity our country has a sense of advanced democracy because of the AKP, which will not be in a normal legal state. Without waiting for the trial to be finalized, I once again condemn the intervention of Middle East Technical University as a thief. Here's my advice to AKP executives: Use ODTÜ, the helicopter you keep in the air for hours to control Middle East Technical University, and use it to monitor Ankara traffic, and get rid of the traffic problem you've made impossible for Ankara's people. Dear lawmakers, in their speech in the AKP Group, the road to Middle East Technical University is a civilization, but non-civilists don't appreciate the road. If there is a mosque in front of it, and the road is through it, we will wash it, and we will build it elsewhere. The fact of the matter is that there is no such thing as the Qur'an, in Islam, in Qur'an, there is no such thing, there is a mescit, there is an expression of the messenger. There is no way to expect an explanation other than a Prime Minister in his statement. Dear lawmakers, what is the third education policy organised by the Turkish Education Association, attended by Mr. Nabi Avcı? I would like to present here an example given by Whitehurst, an educational adviser to the Bush era from the United States in the forum. An additional library building is needed at a university in the United States. It's being decided, but it turns out there's another building next door and there's an experiment going on, so there's a school lab. They say that if we build this building here, we can't be experimented or asked for results from experiments that have been done and ongoing because the current environment will be corrupted. The decision is being reviewed, more money is being spent and the new building is being built underground. A person who sees civilization as a road, and says that he will destroy it, even if it comes to holy ground, is an idea that the mosques are not really in Islam, and on the other hand, it is an experiment that allows experiments to go on, thinking about taking the building under the ground. As the Prime Minister said: "From where to where?" Dear lawmakers, universities are free-thinking environments, places where different voices can live, where right can be found in academic freedom. There are two ideas that want to maintain the environment of freedom: one of them has an understanding that considers our differences as our wealth, while the poor regimes in Germany, Italy, Spain, have applied examples, while the other accepts them as they are, while the other has the understanding that they want to raise people to put a mortgage on their mind. So, this difference of opinion is reflected in the workings of universities. The target of 2023 by the AKP does not have a study of manpower that Turkey needs. Opening high school-like universities everywhere is not going to get our country to its 2023 target, not even across its edge. The opening of thematic universities focused on specific areas would be the savior of our country instead of one type. Being a modern university requires financial, academic, administrative autonomy. After the universities have determined their own goals, they need to determine how, with what methods and tools and with what resources to achieve them. Investment decisions should be based on the priorities of the region and universities, not in Ankara, as everyone will appreciate. The universities certainly have the intelligence and the power to determine their priorities by considering national strategy documents. In this way, discussions on why and what every penny is spent can be minimized. You can't make quality, production and exports high-tech at an RD and non-innovation college. You can't do RD and Innovation without raising the colleges' budget. For RD and innovation, there is also a need for a youth who has studied art and culture, has imagination, dreams, and questions about life. You can't go far enough in RD and innovation with the youth you've asked him to pledge to you. Dear lawmakers, after every step taken by the AKP government, he hears a voice from 1938. The AKP government is disturbed, their sleep is escaping, but you are becoming more and more aware of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and what he is doing. Dear MPs, in the same bill, an offer has been made to change the name of Aydınlar County to "Tillo". We have stated that it would be more appropriate, more ethical to discuss this issue in the Interior Commission, not in the National Education Commission, as stated by our opposition. Dear lawmakers, as I am his brother-in-law at the AKP group meeting, for example, the name of "Tillo" has been changed to "Adjectives." Following this talk, the proposal of the law was drafted and transferred from the commission to the Assembly General Assembly. As the Republican People's Party and personally, as the Republican People's Party MP in charge of Siirt, I proposed a law on this matter on November 22, 2012, a year before the opening of the democratic package. Because I've been working in the district of Aydınlar (Tillo) and I've seen that an event was organised by the governorship of Aydınlar district (Tillo) under the name of the İlk Hadisesi Sciences and Culture Days, using the name of the district's people, even on the district's website, referred to it as "Tillo. When I looked into it, when I asked my friends who were working on the language in particular, I saw that it means "tillo" in Sumerian, and in our conversations with the people of Siirt, it was said that the change of name would be true, so there was no package or process, just what the public wanted and the existing practices were there, and I offered it a law. Deliberate MPs, Aydınlar district, were founded by the law issued by parliament on 3647 and 16/5/1990; many other districts were established by the same law, Batman and Şırnak provinces were formed. After reviewing the minutes of the law talks, you see that today's debates did not take place in those days. The parties criticised the production of the issues of the creation of cities and counties, and the debate focused on it. More terrorist problems could be avoided, the excess of inter-city distance and the overcoming of the region's difficult geography were expressed as to how the region would develop economically. Dear lawmakers, we have stated that our proposed law as Republican People's Party would contribute to the region's belief and cultural tourism. We didn't expect a package or an opening, but we see that the AKP is again offering another task with other thoughts and a job that is best suited for it. If you look at Zaman daily, dated 24 November 2012, it is said that the People's Party of the Republic and the AKP have also proposed law on changing the name of Aydınlar district to "Tillo" but there is no such law proposal until last week. There's no offer, but he knows, why? Because the package is expected, and the package needs to come out in a good package. Dear lawmakers, another requirement was mentioned during my Siirt programmes, which said it would be appropriate to study on the subject: the establishment of a medical school at the University of Siirt. So on December 12, 2012, I proposed another law, and Veysel Karani's medical school was to be opened to Siirt, depending on the University of Siirt. There is a university in Siirt, but there is no medical school in Bitlis. There is no medical school in Şırnak. There is no Hakkari. There is no Batman. There is no medical school in Mardin. There is no heart centre in Şırnak, Siirt, Batman, Mardin, where any of our citizens can intervene if they have an infarction, so our citizens are less fortunate than our people living in this area, living in Ankara. So I said, let's set up a medical school for Sirt. There's only Van. I want you to know how far away it is when you're thinking about Ziirt and Van or Bitlis and Van, and Şırnak and Van, and Hakari and Van, and how far it is, until the patient moves there. Dear MPs, after our proposal for the law, the people of Siirt and the local newspapers expressed their satisfaction. However, within a year, there is still no sign of the AKP. I am the brother-in-law of Sirit. There is a prime minister who boasts about it, but there is no progress in medical school, so I think the Prime Minister is waiting for another package. And now they're calling me from Siirt, and they're writing in the papers: "You did well with this bill, and you thought your name was Veysel Karan, which is very nice, but we think the AKP couldn't get it to him again. They say a Republican People's Party has tied the AKP's hand in offering a law to open a medical school in Siirt. Dear friends, Veysel Karani as the owner of the law proposal for medical school, if the AKP has such an opinion, if the offer I made in front of the people of Siirt in front of the medical school immediately interferes with my offer to get them to medical school, then I can withdraw the legal proposal that I have signed for the people of Siirt to get into medical school, as long as the champion is Prime Minister, as long as he knows best, just as long as he does the best, as long as Mazhar-Fuat-Ezkan does it's part of his community. Dear MPs, as Republican People's Party, we have no problem with voting, so if I do this, the vote will come, and if I do this, the vote will come. We don't act with a thought called the Republican People's Party. We are merely expressing the will of the people of the region, not the needs of our people. We'll go back to our people in Siirt, drink their tea, have a nice chat, chat. Even a thank you is enough for us, but stop hiding behind packages, stop using religious and spiritual matters to politics, for the sake of the people, but work for the sake of the secular state without harming it. Dear friends, between 2004 and 2011, I am a scientist who was appointed by both Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer and Mr. Abdullah Gul as president of Süleyman Demirel University. In my term as president, I did not behave in the university to hurt an employee or a student or a teaching officer. In college, I've tried to make sure that every single time you see each other, they live in a complete state without harming each other. After I became president, I went to the school's mosque, took care of it, fixed it. Go to the university now. There's a beautiful seminary mosque next to the university hospital that we built for the seminary, and I laid the foundation. In Anatolian culture and Islamic religion, this kind of talk is frowned upon, but you make me say it. Our goal is not to show off. It is our one and most important duty to use our nation's authority under the House's roof again. Stop running for other purposes by exploiting religious and spiritual feelings, and take full control of the republic. Nevşehir Hacı Bektas Veli University and Tillo County wish you well, and I offer you my love and respect.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0186par0439	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0443	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I'd like to enter my words now with a little bit of history, about the location names. When the Ottoman Empire conquers a place, it sends city printers there when it joins its territory and writes all of its productions into the books we call "tahirir" and "tahirer" and "script" and "scripture." So let me tell you: how many chickens do you have, how many cows do you have, how many sheep do you have, how many sheep do you have, how much land do you have, how much land do you produce, how much taxes do you pay, how many tax records of the people who live here with the names of the father, the disabled under the name of the deceased, the elderly under the name "piri," the imam, the orator, the bachelor, the married, and all of them. It's such a large, area-related book. These are what we call the books of the tarhir. There are all the names of the places in these demolition books, which you all know, in the Ottoman Empire, there is no prejudicial or prejudicial in any way. Now, in this framework, when we look at Ottoman territory, Anatolia, as our friends in Anatolia say, you can't see any of this, not a northern Kurdistan or Kurdistan. These are related to a number of new political formations in the 19th century that the Western countries took out under the name of the song. As a matter of fact, when you look at European history, atlas, and maps, the place referred to as Kurdistan is present - day Suleimaniye, Erbil, and Iran. The Hakkari region is located on all Western maps as ▪Turkomania. Therefore, there is no basis for the proportion and accuracy of what our friends say. And I can also say that the first date written as Kurdish history is the Honorary Letter, written by the Khan in 1597 and Farsi. İdrisi Bitli lived in the days of Sultan Suleiman, whose name was Hess Behist, which is Persian for eight Gardens.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0188par0447	In this business, it's Kurdish.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0448	So, given all of this, I'd like to make it very clear that since...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0188par0449	It's Kurdish, why don't you say that?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0450	Hess Behist... may be Kurd, but not Kurdish.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0188par0451	Sir, tell me why you're not in Kurdish and why you're a professor of history.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0452	What I'm trying to say is... well, the Kurdish Idrisi Bitli wrote it in the name of Hess Behist. Let them show me one Kurdish history written in Kurdish, that's one. Second: Since northern Kurdistan is here, you can't see any of it, if they show an architectural structure built by Kurds. In this framework, I would like to say in particular: Now, during the last period of the Ottoman Empire, during the national struggle, a number of our citizens, Armenian citizens, are being subjected to arrest for collaborating with the Russians, with the British, with the French. I mean, no one should think of it as deportation when we call it a suspension; they've been sent to a territory on Syrian soil, again in the territory of the Ottoman State. After the war, on December 18, 1918, the decision to return was issued to the Armenians. As of November 1922, the number of Armenians in Anatolia and İstanbul is 644,900. But in the time of the national struggle, the Armenians went out of Asia Minor on a large scale, out of Turkey, to other countries, after the war, because of the continuing struggles with the Armenians in the Eastern Anatolian region and the French army in the south. According to U.N. records, the number of Armenians who went to other countries was 817,873. As of November 1922; the number of Armenians who remained in Anatolia and İstanbul was 281; the number of Armenians who remained in the Armenian identity is 48,997. It's the British and Americans who make these statistics. Now, therefore, there are Armenians who have to become Muslims, which are 95. Where they live, what villages they live in. These are also prepared by the Armenians, available in the American archives. Now, I would like to say here that after the national struggle was won, most of the Christians in Anatolia, except the Suryans, all of them, especially the Greeks, had to leave Asia Minor, because other Turks in other parts of Greece were transferred to Anatolia, except the Turks in Anatolia. The republic's archives now have records of the abandoned goods and their values in the name of the petitions and the exchange, so there is a Patriarchy in Istanbul while they are being transferred here. In İstanbul, six districts of İstanbul have been given the authority to appoint Metropolitans to serve the Christians, according to Lauzan, but since there are no such Christian populations in Anatolia, there is no place for them to appoint Metropolitans, but let me point out in particular that those who left the land were replaced by Turks from the Balkans, who were replaced by the Armenians from East Anatolia. Let me name him, for I have spoken to him, and I can tell him that the Conqueror Altailı is going from Iconiah to Van. Bitliste Hasani are the same. In many places such as these, the Turkish population has been transferred from the Interior Anatolian Region. Now, what I'm trying to say here is that we're changing the names. Yes, the location has also been changed in a way that is not really pleasant, so many Turkish places have also been changed. For example, in the Adana region, there is the nativity of Serbia. Suspension Highova was made. Why? Because they don't know what the word "surprise" means. However, Serbia is an arm of the Hand. In addition, the village of Kırmit (Kırmite) or village of Ceyhan (Ceyhan) was built today. It's the name of one of his Applied Carves. So there have been random changes. Now, here, Greek and Armenian names in different parts of Anatolia have been changed, as well as the Turkish placement. But it's a tradition that when sent from Anatolia to Rumeli, the Yörüks named those areas after their settlements from Anatolia. When they came from Central Asia to Anatolia, they gave the names of places in Central Asia. Here are the heads of the Talas in Kayseri. Again, like this, Mezitli, Ahlat, they are all the same as the places in Central Asia. So they gave there those who came from there, and those who went from there to Rumeli. But when you change the name of the place like that, you have to consider something, people. Not one of the Turkish venues in the Balkans remained today. Look, in West Thrace, we call it "Iskeleton." Despite the 1923 Lausanne Agreement, what do we say? It says the Greeks. They don't even use the word Istanbul, they call it Constantinople. Also, they call the Gümülcine. So all of the ground names have been changed, similar to this one. Other than that, some shrines were built, including the mausoleum of Malkoçoglu, including Turhan Bey's shrine. So on top of the graves, the church was built, completely changed. Now, you're going to change the name of the place in Anadolu. When you say "Anadolu," you're actually going to call it either Greek or Armenian again. There is no Kurdish name; it is an Islamic name. Even the names of the people we call Kurd are Islamic, and our name is Islam. Therefore, there is no such thing as Turkish or Kurdish. If that's really going to happen, then let's set up a commission, let's put this commission out there, let's call these names. Now you're saying we're going to put the class back in. But Dersim is not related to Kurdish or Kurdish at all. My lesson is Farsi, the door is the door -- those who know Farsi -- is silver, meaning silver. You can call it Kurdish all you want, whatever you want, it's a fact.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0189par0463	It is in Zazaki dialect. You're talking because you don't know zaza. You'll have to speak up after that, it's rude.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0464	My lesson is Farsi, the door is the door; the Ottomans used it often, and the Ottomans used the word "derbent" as well. It means to hold the door, or to hold the door, or to hold the door. The stations have set up crossing routes and derbents. Therefore, the Ottoman language includes Persian and Arabic words. For example, we call it the library. The word "kutub" is originally Arabic. The book is plural. The house of the books is, meaning,,,,,,,, the house of the books. In Iran, they use it as a bookhop. They use it as a singularity, wrongly. Now, no matter what you say, I'm here... which I'm not saying politically, I'm saying in a realistic way. Now, you call it the name "Tillo." Is it Kurdish? Absolutely not.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0190par0466	No, it's Syriac.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0191par0467	It's Asian and it's Arabic...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0468	Wait a minute. What's Syriac, Tillo? If you go to the bottom of the word, for example, the Arabs use the word "tillo" in exchange for "tillo" -- two "l" endings" means the same thing, but when you go further back, you see it in Sumerian when you go to the origin of the word. In Sumerian, it also means the height of the hill, or the height of the hill. Today, the location of Tillo is the high hill, as you know, where our district of Aydınlı is located. So that's why it's called. As we know, in Anatolia, what we like to call "dung" in the Turks, it means "mock," "stuff," "stuff," "rat," "rat," "rat," "rat," "rat," "rat." It comes from Sumerian, which is related to this. In fact, the word "tillo" is also available in Aztecs. So if you look at the Aztec records, you'll see the word "tillo" there, where it means "high hill." So you have to know how, in what sense, you change something when you change it. Now, if we, in any way in Turkey, enter into such change again today as this is Kurdish, this is Turkish, how will we keep society whole? This is Kurdish territory, this is Turkish territory. What do you make of it? Now, this will certainly cause a great deal of trouble in Turkey, but like I said, it's not hard to find the word "tillo" all over the place. As I said, look at the Sumerian records, where you can actually see that the "tillo" is actually used, and you can also see that it means "high hill" or "high hill."
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0191par0470	There's no objection to that!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0187par0471	Dear lawmakers, if you're politically speaking or if you're saying this now, of course it's normal, but if you're speaking to the Republic of Turkey, we're talking here, we're representing 75 million, 76 million Turkish people in the Turkish National Assembly, we're speaking on their behalf, and if what we're saying here is just politically spoken words, then we're obliged to take down the history of its future and the burden of it. Now, in this framework, there are really so many applications in Turkey that we're doing, for example, some applications under the name of a local transformation. Friends, when a date is preserved as it exists, history can be made, it can be made. Now, sir, these are old, and we will make a new one. If you enter into a new set of issues, structures, then you can't write history, you can't create history. The Republic of Turkey, whatever you say... let's say Ankara's Bahçelievler district. If you want to build high buildings in the Gardenlievs district in the name of urban transformation or create a new type of building, consider that those first buildings of the republic have been completely destroyed, so, what are the early works of the Republic? What are you going to answer when you say? I mean, look, I'm not talking about slums. To write a date, you have to keep the issues that are the true subject of history. Someone will come tomorrow and say, "I, sir, don't like it very much. Here, Haci Bayram's place is old, and I'll fix this place." That's not how history is written. Whatever you've done with the curve or the truth before, it has to enter the pages of history so that history can be created. What architectural structure are you going to show me when you say the history of the Republic, if you mess everything up? Thus, it is necessary to act very carefully in doing so. If we, the Turkish nation, want to stay in Anatolia, we have to preserve some of the most important elements of our own past. For example, if your cemetery is constantly being renovated... let's say there were gravestones made of carved stones in many graves. Now, someone is coming, and I want to rebuild my family's grave. He says, "He's building a new cemetery with marble stones." Now, friends, if you make it that way, you destroy the past of that tomb. So, in such changes, we need to have municipalities, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, our Ministry of Culture, to be very careful, not to allow such matters, and to be protected. So, now, you're called the Lighters, yes, you're done; it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, but what does it mean, you don't know what names you're going to change in which areas you're going to change, which ones you're going to change. So we have to think about it that way. Now, it's just been talked about people from the Balkans. In particular, the majority of people from the Balkans are Turkish; they are Turkish-born because there is a large population in the Balkans, called the Rumeli-Yurtors. Because the RumeIi Yörüks were transferred with the conquest of the Rumeli, which is used to build castles, to build trenches, to build weapons, but these people migrated to the main homeland of Anatolia with the loss of the land. But let me make it very clear that we are an imperial balance as a Republic of Turkey. Not all of our people from the Caucasus or from the Balkans are Turks; they have Bosniaks in them, they have Albanians in them, they have Bulgarians in them, they come from the Caucasus -- now, you can't exclude them because they came here, no matter what element. They've embraced this country and come here. Let me tell you this: Do you know what percentage of people from the Caucasus and the Balkans today is in the Republic of Turkey? It's 35 percent. So, what do you think you're doing? It's 35 percent. All the way to Diyarbakir, all the way to East Anatolia, where there are not only mujahideen immigrants from Crete, but also from the Balkans. Hundreds of thousands, millions of people have come, broken down on the road because of disease or attacks. But these people have lost their land, their homeland. He left his grandfather's, his father's, his mother's, his wife's grave there. You have to share their pain. They've come here, they've settled in Anatolia because they think of them as their homes, but you can't call them "Muslims" nor can you call them "Muslims." These are the autonomous citizens of Turkey, people who have as much right to this land as I do, as you do in this country. In fact, let me tell you, if the Lausanne Treaty hadn't defined the status of minorities for Armenians, Greek and Jews, I think that's the biggest mistake the West has ever made to our society, because there shouldn't be people in minority status in our society. They were born in this country just like me, and they are the people of this country. So let's see if we can get him to look at it this way. Let's not say Kurds, Kurds, Kurds, and then go to a certain discrimination and accuse someone else of racism. Whoever lives in the Republic of Turkey, my brother, his name, his body, his race, his faith, is a citizen of this country, a man of this country without mention. Therefore, our approach should be as a human being in this country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0192par0482	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0193par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0194par0484	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0193par0485	Mr. Hatib had a question, asking about the artifacts.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0195par0486	Oh, tell him that, please. I mean, since this morning...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0193par0487	No, it's just...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0195par0488	Since two o'clock...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0193par0489	But the preacher...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0195par0490	He used a beautiful language.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0196par0491	No, no, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0195par0492	I'll look at you now, I'll listen to you, but Mr. Kaplan, he used a very beautiful language, and I watched very carefully because he didn't offend anyone.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0197par0493	He just asked: "If there were Kurds in Turkey, there would be artifacts," he said.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0195par0494	He didn't reject them. No, he didn't say if there were Kurds.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0198par0495	Let's get him on record.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0197par0496	▪ Can you show me if you have one?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0195par0497	Then write it down, because now I will listen to Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0197par0500	Mr. President, now that he's asking us questions, show us. I'm going to count both visual and three places: Isaac Pasha Palace, Malabadi Bridge, İstanbul, Diyarbakır (Amed) Ten-Eyed Bridge, Silvan Bridge, and Medresa Sor. This is Red Medrese, Cirira Botan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0199par0501	▪ Kurds can't do good things!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0197par0502	I mean, it's obvious that these artifacts... you know, history hits a man, historical truth hits a man. That's what I want to express.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0200par0503	Okay, it's on the record, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0504	Mr. President, during his oratory speech, I believe that there was no area called Kurdistan, that the history of the Kurds was not in fact...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0202par0505	I said there isn't one in Anatolia.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0506	...has stated that Anadolu has not been there. So he said our group misinformation the General Assembly, so I'd like to answer him.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0203par0507	Here you go, brother.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0510	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, I didn't feel the need to take this conversation and answer it, but, of course, the talk has come to a point where there are no Kurds, no Kurds, no Kurdistan, and no Alevi. Now, Your Honor, I have here a scientific framework...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0204par0512	Don't twist it like that, it doesn't exist!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0205par0513	It is you who lead him astray.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0514	... that he spoke, but look, when he was president of the Turkish Historical Society, he said: "When the structural properties of Kurds are examined, they are Turkmen, and when the Kurdish Alevis are done with structural examination, they are Armenian return." Now, if that's what you call science, we don't accept that science. And we don't think you have the right to come here and present us with all these unilateral theories that you've set up as science over the years as positive science.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0205par0515	It's not positive, it's social science.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0516	We can examine everything from the Sultan Senser era of Kurdistan, from the Seljukian era to the Sultan Senser period, from the letter of Yavuz Sultan Selim to the Idris Bitli.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0206par0517	Three pieces, three, three.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0518	So, South Kurdistan and Rojhilat accepted East Kurdistan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0206par0519	He also accepted Rojava.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0201par0520	That's progress. At least in the next period, as these arguments rotted, historically, the main country where the Kurdistan region now lives as four parts has signalled that the Kurds will be accepted from this platform as the main land, which is an important development. One sentence is about Dersim. I myself am Zaziz. It means door in Zazaca, which means silver. Thus, the meaning of Dersim is very clear in Dersim, as well as in the area where Zaza Kurds live.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0207par0522	He said he went through Farsi, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0523	Mr. President, I'm going to need your word.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0209par0524	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0526	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have now twisted even what I just said, the orator that just came out. Which is exactly what I said when I was president of the Historical Society: I said that a lot of people who know themselves as Kurds are actually Turkishmen. And I insist on it, and it's not that hard to prove. Secondly, I said there are Armenian returns that show themselves as Kurds, even Kurds-Alevis. Look, I didn't say that Alevi Kurds were Armenian returns, but my word is very different: I said that there are Armenian returns showing themselves as Kurds, even Kurds-Alevi. If you want me to name a village, name a name, neighborhood, house a house, do you want me to name one? Let me count the tunceli, batman, and all the sides.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0210par0528	That's the date you wrote it. Our history is clear, plain as day. That's the date you wrote. For years, you've been sitting on that couch writing that history.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0529	Now, look, I'm not racist like you, I'm not counting them, but that's exactly what I'm saying. Secondly, I didn't say Kurdistan didn't exist, but on the contrary, I told you where Kurdistan was. Third, I didn't say there were no Kurds, but...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0211par0532	Tell me where Central Asia is, Central Asia. Tell me where you came from.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0533	I said that the geography you call Northern Kurdistan was on maps in western sources called Turcomania. I don't want you to...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0212par0534	So we're back to square one, there's no Kurd. There's no Kurdistan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0535	...you have to understand what's being said first. I suggest you understand that first. It doesn't matter if you take me in or not. You know, they asked Laz, "This man owes you this much. He said, "I don't know this one." He said, "I don't know this one." He said, "It's our foundation. I don't know him at all."
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0213par0536	If your history is the same as the date you told us...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0537	Now, it doesn't matter if you take me in or not. You two have that argument in your own world.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0214par0538	Our history is in the middle, in the middle.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0539	But I'm telling you something, including the Isaac Pasha Palace I just told you, look at it all in architecture, style, if you ask any art historian, where in the world are they, all of them...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0214par0540	So there are no Kurds. Are you saying you've come there?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0541	...all Seljuk, Ottoman architecture. You can call them these as much as you want. Is there one in Southeast? Aruklu, Seljuk...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0214par0543	There aren't any Kurds anyway, are there?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0208par0544	They're Ottoman artifacts, including bridges. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0215par0547	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0216par0548	Mr. President, let me tell you something. Now, look, the Kurdish language says there's nothing about culture. So, four colleges in the Ottomans...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0217par0551	Slimbeek, Mem u Zin, Fakiye Teyran... shall I count? Isaac Pasha Palace, Medresa Sor...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0218par0552	My class is called Farsi.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0219par0553	Teacher, Zazaki...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0220par0554	Mr. Halaçoglu, just a second...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0218par0555	So I'm saying it for the Persian name.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0219par0556	It's not Farsi. Zazaki is my native language.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0221par0557	I'm just saying, for the record. Four universities in the Ottomans...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0222par0559	I mean, it's Farsi. It went through there.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0223par0560	Mr. Yeniçeri, please... I don't hear it, Mr. Yeniçeri, just a minute...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0224par0561	So if we subtract all the concepts that go into your language, there's nothing left.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0225par0562	Even the name of the Republic of Turkey is not Turkish. So we're just gonna come here?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0226par0563	Why, because the word "public" isn't Turkish?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0225par0564	Yeah, well, the Republic isn't Turkish.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0227par0565	Let four universities in the Ottoman era... explain what were the universities teaching Kurdish language and literature in Istanbul, Urbana, Van and Diyarbakır. In the Ottoman era, look, I say four provinces, and there are universities here, and they teach Kurdish here.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0228par0566	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0229par0567	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0228par0568	Mr. Tan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0229par0569	Mr. President, I have a proposal. Mr. Halaçoglu and those of you who agree with him will speak every day in the House for an hour, and we'll go and sleep in our house. Only the one who's asleep...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0230par0571	It's up to you. It's up to you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0229par0572	...and if there are Kurds with numbers and dignity, let them speak every day, every day!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0231par0573	Yeah, well, you always sleep at home except on TV! You're on TV, you're in a house, you're doing nothing else!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0229par0574	Let them speak every day, and if there are Kurds still sleeping, let them wake up. We don't need to talk.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0231par0575	You're already in the house, you're on TV, you're doing nothing else, you're stopping by the House once in a while!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0229par0576	Let them talk every day. I wish he'd talk every day!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0232par0582	We're moving on to the individuals of the proposal. Mr. Aytug Horseman, the first word. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0233par0586	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge to change the name of a county by the name of a university number 492. I salute the lawmakers, who advocate the autonomy of universities, who do not consider universities a trading facility and who do not see them as a trade house. I say, "I salute the lawmakers who don't cheat the public." Dear friends, what does this offer bring? This proposal is called Nevşehir University of Nevşehir Hacı Bektaş Veli University. You don't want it to happen? Of course, of course. So, why are you making this change of name? In your reasoning, you say that we named some of the universities in our country after the people we cared about, the people we loved. So let's call this university Haci Bektas Veli University. And you're not telling the truth again. You say you love Bektas Veli, but you don't. I'll tell you why you don't like Bektas Veli.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0234par0589	How do you know? I love it, my fellowman.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0233par0590	Let me tell you why you don't like Haci Bektas Veli, and why you don't like him. If you loved Haci Bektas Veli, my dear friends, you would understand his philosophy and apply it to your life. At least you respected those who practiced the philosophy of Haci Bektas Veli, and even if you didn't, at least you respected those who practiced it. Have his hand, his tongue, his waist. You would have embraced his understanding. You'd have your hands, you wouldn't get involved in corruption, you'd have your tongue, you'd tell the people the truth. If you had loved Hadji Bektas, my dear friends, you would not have insulted their house today. Had you loved Hadji Bektas, you would have accepted the temples as a place of worship. Had you loved Haci Bektas Veli, my dear friends, you would have given up your desire to build mosques in spite of the stubbornness of Alevi villages. Had you loved Hadji Bektas, my dear friends, you would not have had imams or high schools built in the Aleki settlements, as if the blind finger had told the blind eye. Had you loved Bektas Veli, you would have made sense out of the proverb, so you would not have raised a spiteful generation. Now do you understand why you don't like Hadji Bektas, why you don't tell people the truth? So why do you call it that? Why are you naming a college after a minister you don't like? Because you're trying to trick our Alevi citizens, to say the least, you're trying to trick our Flaming citizens. You think that if you name a university after the Great Judge, the name of the Great Judge will be exalted, that's how shallow your understanding is. You know, when you gave the name Recep Tayyip Erdogan to a university, the name rose, you think, if you give the name of the judge, the name of the judge will rise, there is no such thing. However, when the name of Haci Bektas is given to that university, it adds value to that university. I mean, you think you've been gracious to the Alevi with this change of name, so please don't fool yourself or anyone else. Come out here young, ladyly, gentlemanly, tell the truth, and tell me why you call it that. Our flaming citizens have at least your intelligence, and believe me, they're aware of everything, so if you're fooling them, you're only fooling yourself. My dear friends, you're trying to change the names of colleges instead of solving these problems when colleges have so many problems. If changing colleges' names is going to solve college problems, let's change all the names. If you're not going to hit students at Middle East Technical University anymore, if you're not going to throw gas bombs at them, if you're not going to put them in the hospital, let's change. What, we can change the middle east name, you can do another university, it's not that hard. But these problems will not be changed by changing the university's name, just as you can't solve the problems of the Alekis by naming them Haci Bektas Veli University. If you won't punish the students at Dicle University in Diyarbakır for no longer arresting them for no reason, then I am Kurdish. If you won't torment them for saying that I am Al-Alem. If you won't insult them for their beliefs and ethnic origins, let's change the name of Dicle University. But you won't be able to solve any of the colleges' problems by changing names. My dear friends, when you change the name of the university, do colleges or universities speak? You've silenced universities, and only those who praise the AKP mentality can speak. Unlike your mentality, you're upsetting the world to those who speak. It's embarrassing! You brought a shameful painting, left it in this beautiful country. You know, when you were taking down the PLO, my dear friends, you were taking down the FLL! What I know is that word comes out of the mouth, and the word that comes out of the mouth binds honorable people. Didn't the Prime Minister say we're going to remove it? For God's sake, get out and say, "He didn't get it." What did he do, lift it up? No, instead of lifting it, it looked like him. Now, that's how much damage you've done to colleges. You lock up everyone who doesn't do your own bidding, who doesn't do AKP's trumpeting, and you force the teachers to make your own horn. I'm looking at the faculty in prison, and it hurts. You took the most valuable professors of Turkey and put them in jail for no reason. I look at the students in prison, and I go and talk to them; they have bright eyes, just like my child, but the more I see those people in there, the more it really hurts. You don't really deal with the name of a university; you don't deal with the structure of the building, color of the ladder, color of the building. Literally, college gives us all directions. A lot of us graduated from colleges, so here we are. The colleges gave us directions, guys. Now that we're up, with our tiny little mind, we're trying to direct the universities. This is one of the biggest problems the AKP has ever done. The situation with the professors is the most important of all. The teachers don't want to go to class because of you. A young professor I met on the stairs says to my friend, "Where are you going?" He says, "God damn it, I'll go to class again." You know why? Because you've condemned them to a system called performance, a disease, they don't want to teach students any more; they don't want to tell students what they know in practical practice; they want to do other jobs; they want to look at medical school patients, they want to do business in engineering. You can't solve college problems by changing colleges' names. My dear friends, are they doing research at universities? You changed the name of Nevşehir University, and his research will increase? It won't. Look, I'm going to give you some numbers, and after you look at these numbers, you'll know what I mean. Look, we're 32nd in 34 OECD countries with reading skills, and you haven't been able to move forward in nine years, one step. We did this in education, we did this, we replaced four ministers, five ministers... What happened? In nine years, you didn't get one step ahead of your reading skills. We're the 33rd of 34 countries in education expenses, friends. I'm not saying that. Go check OECD numbers. The average year of education is six and a half years. We're the last of the OECD countries, friends. Good luck! You put us back in the 89th place on the world's democracy index. We are the 112th of the free countries. We are the 138th in the study of freedom of the press in the countries of the world. In corruption, we are number 56, with 4.4 points out of 10 points. Look, this is all your doing, so you can brag. We're number 127 in global peace, we're on the red list. We're in the 93rd place in human development. We're number 84 in general in inequality, 77 in gender inequality, the last in OECD. In the inequality of education, 102, 65, in the inequality of income... the count was not over, but I blacked out. You can't do anything by changing the name of the university. Come on, don't fool yourself, dear MPs. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0235par0604	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the individuals, Mr Selçuk Özdağ, MP of Manisa. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0236par0608	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in favor of the 492 Law Proposal on the Changing Name of a University and a District Name. I salute you all. Geographical names are influenced by natural, social and cultural environments. Because of its geographical position, it has hosted different cultures for thousands of years. Because of this feature, each of the ground names can carry traces of different cultures. It is not just today's work that changes the geographical location names in Turkey are made. From the end of the Ottoman period to today, around 30,000 geographical places have been changed. New names replaced by these changed names have sometimes been accepted immediately by people living in the area, and sometimes long after that, they haven't been accepted. One of the issues involved in the democratic package is the changing of some of the location names. In this framework, the renaming of the name of Tillo, which has been called Tillo for many years and later renamed the Aydıns, has been on the agenda. Again, this proposal envisions changing the name of our Nevşehir University to the University of Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli. The process of democratisation has been expressed by our Prime Minister that as much as the need for social changes is available, new packages can be brought up. The development of communication has accelerated social changes, along with the spread of Internet technology. It is not possible for a society that changes every day to be governed by unchanging laws. The important thing is to set the law according to the direction of change, to define politics according to needs. Dear lawmakers, the state of the Republic of Turkey consists of 780,000 square kilometers of land. We came to this geography in the 960s. When we arrived, we encountered here in this geography the Suryans, the Greeks, and the Armenians. The battle of 1071 Malazzirt Square was also a nationalization of this geography. Then we built great empires like Seljuklu, like the Ottomans. We have made it our culture, our culture, our culture, by making it our culture, the culture of every empire and state that has passed through this land for a thousand years. In our country, no city, region can be defined by ethnic or religious adjectives. The more Manisa is Manisa, the more Diyarbakirs, the more Tripolians. The more Diyarbakir people, the more Manisa people. Names are the title of geography. The AK PARTY and our government are aware of that. AK PARTY won't give anyone the deed to the geography we live on. What we're doing is simply returning a name that has cost society, accepted by all parts of society. Names that cause ethnic ownership and belonging are not on the agenda. In the land of Anatolia, the people of the West have called it "the place where the Turks live," and we have built a culture and civilization that belongs to us by taking advantage of all cultural values in this land. In the name of this civilization, from time to time, we call it the age-old civilization, from time to time the book civilization, from time to time the Turkish-Islam civilization, from time to time the Turkish civilization. Precious MPs were both Turks who founded both the Ottomans and the Artukians, but their subjects were Turks and Arabs, Kurds, Suryanis and Armenians who fled from the tyranny of Byzantines. The founders of our states were Turks. The name of a Turkish people is,,, the name of a culture today,, and is the name of a citizenship. Every nation is defined by a name.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0237par0615	That's not what the Prime Minister says!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0236par0616	The person and delegations who travel from this country to another country are described as part of the Turkish nation. It was our duty yesterday to let every ethnic and religious structure living among us live and live without denial, without assimilation, and it is our duty today as well. Dear lawmakers, non-communist communities cannot produce common emotions and attitudes. For him, governments have mobilized all their powers to form a common identity. The common identity consists of common history, culture, common language and alphabet. Celebrity sociologist Gellner pointed out that education is the most important factor in joint identity development. The main elements of creating identity, such as history, language, and alphabet, can only be given through education. History is a bridge that carries the bonds established in the past, a bridge that shows that we are from a common past. History gives us a transcript of our common values, memories. It always reminds us that we're going through the same process, and the common names, through common memories, help us establish an emotional connection and an identity depending on it. Another key element of common identity creation is common sense of country. The country does not just point to the geography we live on, but also to the geography we imagine. Most of the time, the country we put on our minds is different from the country we live on. The land of our dreams includes what we live in, but it's worth more than that. After establishing the state of the Republic of Turkey, the esteemed lawmakers had a multiple-party life trial, but were recognized. To crown the Republic with democracy has been continued in 1946 and until then with the late Adnan Menderes and other politicians and the late Turgut Özal. People aren't actors anymore until they're in the trunk. Custodians are no longer given bonuses. Turkey is becoming democratic. And as it becomes democratic, an understanding of what holds the pulse of the people prevails. The EC PARTY has tried to expand democraticisation and politics in its eleven-year power; it has been an effort to move human rights and freedoms further, freedom of opinion, freedom of enterprise and freedom of faith to 76 million. Dear lawmakers, where we come from, the removal of the state of emergency, the shortening of the detention period; the making of many reforms in the judiciary, education, health are indicators of our faith in democracy. Democracy means something to the republic, to the republic, to democracy. Our efforts, such as the removal of coefficient injustice, the removal of the headscarf problem in universities at the point of freedom of faith, the ensuing of the legal, economic wounds of human rights and freedoms; the establishment of the research commission for coups, the introduction of the editorial freedom of the public, show our sincerity in democratisation.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0238par0623	Don't let them discipline you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0236par0624	Dear lawmakers, culture is the sum total of a nation's lifestyle from yesterday to today and its savings in every field. It was wrong to change the name Tillo to the Enlightenment yesterday. The living names belong to us. We accept language not static, but dynamic. We believe in change, development and transformation. People like people do. What we do is to meet reasonable, human and legitimate demands.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0239par0625	The voters won't listen anyway!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0236par0626	What we're doing doesn't eliminate the state's right to maintain its presence and unity. The demands of society shouldn't be at home, where people's demands from the community will make us as unitary as fit for human rights and democracy. And what we're doing isn't going to make our unitary structure worse. A measure to protect the country's unity and integrity is a democratic stance against any effort to divide and conflict. What we do is not a compromise given to anyone, but an answer to human and legal demands. Dear lawmakers, it cost our language, it cost our Turkish, every word that is understood by our nation, every name is ours. They're either in Arabic, Farsi, English, Syrian or Kurdish; they're all ours. As one might say, the question is not true. Smyrna, Istanbul being Constantinople is not a public issue. We own the country, which is called Izmir, and we don't own Smyrna. The part of the country that is Istanbul is not ours, it's Constantinople, it's not ours. By excluding part of geography, by damaging the unitar structure, by highlighting our differences, by enforcing names other than living names, the demands are not reasonable, they will not respond, they cannot be given bonuses. But it's a reasonable request to give back a name that's been Tillo for many years.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0240par0628	Like a trilye?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0236par0629	AK PARTY doesn't sign up for anything that will make the plans of those who want to differentiate us and then conflict us, and then divide us. Democracy is a means of building a common ground. We do not compromise Turkey's unity, integrity to please anyone. What we're going to do is not the basis of division and conflict; what we're going to do is we're going to perfect democracy, we're going to introduce it to advanced democracy. Dear MPs, in addition to changing the name of Aydınlar County back to Tillo, the name of our Nevşehir University has been changed to Nevşehir Hacı Bektas Veli University. Haci Bektas Veli, who played an important role in the nationalization and Islamization of these lands, is a treasure that comes from the tradition of Alevi-Bektashi and Sunni, with great respect and love for everyone. For him, it is reasonable that a university in our province, where he has spent part of his life and has a grave, has been renamed Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University. We see this in Burdur Mehmet Akif, Ankara Yıldırım Akıt, Kahramanmarash Milker İmam, Manisa Celal Bayar. For that reason, it is good to name a university after a person who is important to our nation, such as His Holiness, Haci Bektas Veli, who is one of the spiritual architects of Anatolia. With our fears, it is not possible to rule a country. Changing the name of a country within the framework of reasonable demands from our nation does not result in the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation, on the contrary, linking our people there even more to their state. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the offer to be good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0241par0634	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Moving on to QA. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0242par0637	Thank you, Mr. President. This Nabi Bey has sent a statement to the schools, saying that in this case of the Blue Marmara, you will do an Orphan Project in each class and collect $90 from each class. Where does this come from? How are you going to spend this money? Where do you get that authority? Are you trying to create a new source for yourself, Recep Erdogan, and his surroundings in a new Lighthouse incident? And also this Nevşehir name, Haci Bektas Veli... it doesn't really suit your mouth because you've eliminated all the people from the House of Haci Bektas, all the people from the House of Bektas, all the people from your faith, you've never served them anywhere... and you've purged them from public offices. After that, you go into something like this to get people in their head. Look how much respect Haci Bektas will have for a mind that doesn't count as a place of worship!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0243par0641	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0244par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, in Turkey, which we have longed for for for for years, we live in the era of the AK PARTY government, which transitions into real democracy. With the package of democratisation released on September 30th, it is a positive move for our country to be given the name "Tillo" -- a symbol taken from their hands, a symbol for their original names to be returned. Also, the change of the name of Nevşehir University to the University of Haci Bektas Veli is a symbolic gesture that speaks to the feelings of our brothers who live in Turkey, the AK PARTI, expressing their sensitivity to them, and I appreciate it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0245par0647	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0246par0648	So you don't have any questions. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0247par0650	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just made a request on the stand, saying that we have a proposal for the law, given on October 7, 2011, and that all the changed names should be taken as a whole. Then I looked at the proposals, and other than mine, I saw that Mr. Altan Tan. He had an offer on Erzurum province, and in the same way, we saw that Mr. Adil Zozani had a similar offer. Does your commission work only for the EC PARTY, or does it work for the Parliament? If he is working for parliament, we feel that all these proposals must be met and merged in accordance with the requirements of the Civil Code. Otherwise, it would appear that the opposition's will to represent the nation has been ignored in parliament, which is not by the will of the nation. I remind you once again that the Minister must take the offer back and combine it with our bids and bring it to the House in such a manner.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0246par0652	Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0248par0653	Mr. President, I've given up.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0246par0654	Oh, yeah? Okay. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0249par0656	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there is still no improvement in the employment of Kurdish teachers. We had a conversation about this with an AK PARTY member of our friend. This is a major injustice for teachers to charge by the beginning of their course. For less than minimum wage in a month, I'm going to employ these teachers. There has been no response to the many times we've had talks about this, the questions we've made. Our wish is to create a norm staff pool in each province and employ these teachers over this norm staff allocation. The package of democratisation on this issue also made arrangements to teach Kurdish at private schools. Is there a new study run by your ministry? These teachers are waiting to hear from us. I'd like your opinion on that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0246par0658	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0250par0659	He's Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0251par0660	He hasn't changed in your system, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0250par0661	The old system, yes, it's true.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0252par0662	(It says "fair wolf"). Yes, please.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0253par0664	Mr. Minister, Hasip Bey has just expressed that I have a legal proposal to change the names of Hakkari and Şırnak universities. The Commission should have discussed similar legal proposals based on Article 35 of the Civil Code, but it did not enter the Commission and violated the Civil Code. It was a better way to combine these offers, or rather, the Civil Code decree, which was ignored. I'd like to know how you feel about that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0252par0665	Mr. Crescent Tiger...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0254par0666	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in the past month, at Gebze Anadolu High School, a survey was issued at Bezmilalem Foundation University about the students' views on organ donation. On the complaint from the families... I have a copy of the survey, and I can present it to you. In one of the questions in the poll, when you're getting an idea about organ donation, your music? Alevi, Sunni, Shafii and other. Please write. He's taking notes. I'm asking you now: Gebze Anadolu High School Director -- let me not mention his name -- says that the families don't talk to themselves about this complaint, that they're taking it out, that we're working on information given by the National Education Directorate, the county department of this matter. Do you think that's a problem or not? Is it within the knowledge of your ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0255par0669	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0256par0670	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in Anatolia, as in İstanbul, the quotas in Anadolu High School and most of the science high schools have not been filled yet. As a matter of fact, it is available on the website of the Ministry of National Education, where the quotas are available in districts and schools. Although the ministry has granted students second and third choice after first choice, the problem is still unsolved. However, Minister Nabi Avcı said in September that there was nothing to worry about and it would be filled. We also filed a motion on the matter last month. However, the common opinion of educators and students is that the base points should be reduced. Public opinion is that these quotas have been deliberately abandoned and students are trying to be diverted to vocational high schools, not being admitted to the Anadolu upper secondary schools. What do you think of these allegations, sir? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0257par0673	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0258par0674	Thank you, Mr. President. I've only been promised information. Last week, he found European Quality Awards awarded by the European Quality Management Foundation in Vienna. At the awards ceremony, our City of Bursa Lotus was awarded the European Quality Awards for achievement in the category of Value Katma. Mr. Mustafa Bozbey, the mayor of Lotus, celebrates all the workers who have gone through their efforts, which I hereby transfer to your knowledge. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0259par0677	Thank you. Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0260par0679	Thank you, Mr. President. Adıyaman MP actually insulted AKP lawmakers, but they applauded, so I couldn't understand it. By changing the name, we did a symbolic move - the name of Tilo and the university. Congress doesn't make a symbolic move. Parliament serves as the legislature of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. So we stole a finger of honey, actually, we didn't do anything. He says, they applaud.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0261par0681	This is the beginning, the beginning of democracy.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0260par0682	First of all, I don't understand this place.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0261par0683	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0260par0684	Second, in real democrats, people who take the vote to other parties can't say that Turkey has been democratized. People who steal votes, cheat people, don't consult people by taking the vote, don't wait for the next election, don't talk about democracy; that's how it should be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0262par0687	Mr. President, let Firat answer the question himself because he didn't ask the Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0263par0688	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0264par0689	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the minister: Mr. Minister, the girls were given discipline because they wore skirts in Balıkesir. I want to know what the outcome of this investigation is. At the same time, a teacher in Ayvalik district had become a role model in front of children wearing sheets and some information about violence against children, and parents had complaints. In this regard, a legal arrangement has been made regarding the freedom of clothing, the regulation has been issued. Here, those with clear heads are now removed, but there is no clear face -- will they be able to continue their duties with sheets and veils and teachers and civil servants? Are you prepared for this? And will they be asked to cover their heads under the name of the children's freedom of clothes until elementary school and secondary school? We saw it at the holidays.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0265par0694	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in. I'll give you ten minutes. It was a little low, but I finished it in ten minutes, so answer accordingly.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0697	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. This is the matter of the appointment of Kurdish teachers: as Mr. Baluken said earlier, I explained to them at a meeting with our fellow AK PARTI, because we don't know which elective courses -- including Kurdish -- we can't assign staff to any of them, so that's the same for the Koran class, and that's the same for Siyeri Nebi class, because technically we can't get out of the job because we don't know which students will choose which elective courses at which school, because we don't know which elective courses -- we don't get out of the job as if they're going to have to have all the elective courses at that school. So, as I explained to you in that interview last year, it's going to give you a little bit of an idea, so where, what schools, what classes are chosen more, in Kurdish private, which schools in Kurdish...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0265par0699	Mr. Secretary, if you lean into the microphone a little bit... your voice is less than that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0700	From last year's practice, we had an idea of which schools the Kurdish course was an elective. But we still can't measure it because there may be weaknesses from the announcement, so we don't know how much these preferences reflect the real demand of last year. This year, we hope that the choices, the choices, will give us a better idea. After these become a little bit clearer, as you suggested, as we suggested in that discussion, not at the school base, because despite everything, these preferences can change from school to school in the next few years, but we'll be able to meet average preferences, which we'll be able to measure. So, starting next year, hopefully, we'll try to have teachers who can take these elective courses in different schools across the county, not in school, but in other elective courses, including Kurdish in the provinces. The other issue is about the final arrangement, which allows some lessons in private schools to be studied in Kurdish. First, those restrictions on which languages to be studied should be lifted by a Council of Ministers decision. After it happened, we made arrangements for him in the relevant laws of national education. So first, other languages, including Kurdish, can be taught in what courses in schools, or, in fact, the Council of Ministers' decision to teach them, must be changed in a way that includes Kurdish.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0267par0702	No. We did not ask at what private school, so we need these teachers if we are to be taught in Kurdish at private school. Why is he not employed?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0703	But they don't exist yet this year. Now, right now, we don't have private schools that teach certain lessons in Kurdish.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0267par0704	But there will be a norm allocation at the level of counties.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0705	This is what's going to happen from the 2014-2015 school year. So for 2014-2015...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0268par0706	Five hundred teachers were educated in Artuklı.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0267par0707	What about all this work?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0708	I know, I know. So they don't have teachers. We don't call them teachers. We don't have any solid data on where these teachers will be assigned right now.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0267par0709	Children can't take Kurdish lessons because they don't have teachers in some schools.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0710	It's happening. So, like I just said, do these choices reflect the real demands, or, as you say, the lack of teachers or the lack of teachers might be the ones who didn't choose them. He may not have been elected because he couldn't complete 12 students. So, these variables...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0269par0711	Or couldn't you have guessed that there were so many Kurdish children, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0712	While we expected more Kurdish children to choose, he chose 18,000 Kurdish children.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0270par0713	You didn't do what happened, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0714	Sir?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0271par0715	Do what happened.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0716	We did it for 18 grand.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0272par0717	Why don't we get an open tea and a coffee?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0718	Sir?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0273par0719	Our questions are orphans.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0274par0720	There's the answer to your question.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0721	18,000 of our children chose to take lessons in Kırmanchi dialect and 1,800 of our children in Zazaki. Well, I wasn't expecting it that much, either.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0273par0722	If you don't answer our questions, we'll keep asking them. Who are you raising money to, yourself or Mr. Recep?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0723	As for the quotas, yes, we've run the backup lists, we've re-opened them twice. Despite the reserve lists, we have available quotas, but now schools are open at 16, so after all this time we have to open a new record, and we have to cut it here because it's not educationally correct for those kids to change schools, but we see that we need to make a systemic adjustment. Hopefully next year we'll have this choice thing run, just like next year when we're in college, until all the reserve lists are covered. The problem this year is that there are a lot of choices between private schools and public schools. So when you open the records, some of the students get up and prefer the other school. He's getting the recording he's making here, he's registering at the school where his backup is available, and this time, there's a quota opening, a quota gap on this side. So hopefully, in the next year's arrangement, if we block the transitions after we get the first choices, so if we do these recordings through the only option, then the backup lists will be running upwards as long as they stay empty until the end. We'll do that next year. We can't do that now that it's been too long since school started. It's an Orphanship campaign for each class, no obligation.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0273par0725	What kind of volunteer? Where does this money go, I asked for this money. Why not to another fraternity, but to that association?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0726	The IH is also an international aid organisation that is a member of the United Nations Economic and Social Council's special advisory status.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0275par0727	Why not UNESCO and all that?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0273par0728	We're going to ask you how much money and where it's being spent, you can't escape.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0729	It's a survey by the University of Bezmilalem Foundation at Gebze Anadolu High School, where there's a cult, Hanefi, Shafii, other options... it's not within our knowledge, I don't know, I'll look into it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0276par0730	I can give it to you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0731	I'll take that, and I'll look into it from our own sources, and I'll give you healthier information. Right now, I don't know the nature of the survey at Gebze Anadolu High School. The matter of the teacher in the slums is not a matter of wearing a sheet, as some broadcasters are foaming at. The traditional coat, which is worn all over Turkey, is a slightly more abundant coat, I understand. Through photos taken from the wall of the schoolyard, publications were made that would offend the teacher's privacy. To be honest, I'm also sorry that this is the way it was brought here.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0277par0733	Disciplinary investigation for skirt-wearers...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0734	I'm going to ask about the disciplinary board investigation into students wearing skirts. I don't know what that is.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0277par0735	It also appeared in the newspaper that the teacher in the sheets was violent with the children.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0266par0736	I can't quite hear.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0278par0737	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0738	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0278par0739	Yes, please.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0740	I've been bullied by the mention of my name.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0278par0741	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0745	Thank you, Mr. President. When I entered politics, when I was doing politics, I went into politics for some values I believed in and knew. And all the time, everywhere...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0280par0747	You should've gone where you believed in.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0748	I've defended everything I know, everything I believe in, and I've stood by it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0281par0749	There were 34 dead in Gülyazı, and we went there with you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0750	I'm a citizen of a Kurdish-identified Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0281par0751	We went there together.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0752	When I was doing politics, I did it by my principles, by my beliefs, by my values. And when I became a member of the Republican People's Party, my citizens in Adıyaman, and the voters who voted for me, they voted for me because they believed that I would take care of their values, their identities. I didn't steal their votes, I'm giving them theirs. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Therefore, to be in a place where my values, my identity, are not respected, is to compromise my identity and values.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0281par0755	Weren't we there together? Did you get the result of Uludere?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0756	I, of course, didn't see the need to continue politics at the Republican People's Party because I wouldn't give it to you, so I left.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0282par0757	When you became a congressman, you understood!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0758	This is a good decision for me, an honorable one.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0283par0759	Weren't we together at Uludere, in Uludere?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0279par0760	I don't think I deserve to do politics at a party in Turkey that ignores people's values, IDs, denies it, deals with assimilation. Because of my primitive stance, because I'm primitive, I'm going to continue politics where I'm appropriate. In the same package of democratization, there were some of the items that our party decided and explained, you know, the names of the places that were changed, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think the name "Tillo" is a symbol to begin with.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0284par0764	Mr. President, how many minutes did you give him?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0285par0765	Wrong, wrong. Thank you, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0286par0767	Again, because of the values of our Alevi citizens, our Alevi brothers...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0287par0769	If you change parties, you can't get them to listen to you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0286par0770	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0288par0772	Mr. Firat, thank you. Reverends...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0289par0774	What about the hospital, the hospital?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0290par0775	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0288par0776	Mr. Akar, your President is disturbed, I am disturbed; make a little effort and I will hear silence.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0290par0777	He was elected by the vote of thousands of people who voted for the Republican People's Party. I say he's cheating, he says he's not. In fact, he did them another injustice. He said, "I do these things to serve Adıyaman." In these kinds of democracies, they don't have the right to come in here and talk, but they voted for this party. And I'd like to answer for them, on behalf of the voters, as Deputy Group President of this party.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0291par0778	Mr. Tütin, your Kurdish reports are coming out empty. That's what you're saying. What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0292par0779	Mr. President, he picked on me, he answered.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0293par0780	But he didn't do anything to you. I mean, he just answered what you said.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0294par0781	No, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0293par0782	So let's not be unfair.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0294par0783	He said that he had not deceived people, that he had done good to Adıyaman. And I want to tell you that you cheated.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0293par0784	Now, you're going to say he cheated for two minutes. He's going to say, "I didn't fool him for two minutes." Then he'll say Mahir Ünal. No, he won't. So we've lost six minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0295par0785	The Kurds and the Turks are not equal, he said. Of course he's leaving. What's he gonna do?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0293par0786	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0296par0789	Thank you, Mr. President. The party can be changed. You can change parties, you'll be separated politically, you'll change them, but when do you know? You complete the term, and if you leave, you remain independent, you leave at the end of the semester, you can run for another party. I find it very true, but I thought of the Adıyamans... You did it not in the interests of Adıyaman, but in your own interests. Of course you stole the votes.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0297par0792	Mr. President, Adıyamans don't steal.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0296par0793	Look, in the past -- if you look at the minutes of this Assembly -- for an MP from the Republican People's Party to the Justice Party -- they say to Mr. Demirel -- at the time, they say to Mr. Demirel -- I won't be able to explain, I won't be able to tell, the whole thing is already spoken -- you were so angry with this CHP MP, why did you take it to the party? He says, "Why did you take it to the party?" He says: "Ya, he was always attacking us, and now he's attacking the Justice Party." Now, look, people who change parties and go somewhere else should at least know to shut up, at least know to shut up.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0297par0795	They must be men, too, man.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0296par0796	Even silence is a political discipline, a political courtesy. There were those who once crossed from CHP to there who thought they were going to get a bonus by banging CHP, and now, when the ministry left at the end of the semester, they remembered democracy again. And you remember democracy when you're not on the list. This is the fate of Adıyaman.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0298par0799	The Adıyamans are very pleased.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0296par0800	I know the Adıyamans are very uncomfortable with this job, and I know he's very uncomfortable with it, but he's spinning around like this, so at least shut up and let's just say he's a little upset with his conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0299par0803	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I'd like it to be passed on to...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0300par0808	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0301par0809	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0302par0810	Mr. President, he needs to answer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0303par0811	Okay, honey, I'm still here. You want roll call, one minute. I submit to your votes to be passed on to them. I say, it's a roll call.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0304par0815	Mr. President, Adıyamans don't steal. The Adıyaman are men, Mr. President. Adıyamans don't steal; Adıyamans don't sell men. The Adıyamans give him the right to play.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0305par0816	I'm not gonna learn to be a man from you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0303par0817	Oh, for God's sake, everybody's talking. Mr. Agha, that's enough. Mr. Örüt, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kören, Mr. Young, Mr. Agha, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0306par0820	I don't know what to do...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0303par0821	In fact, he's a surrogate.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0307par0822	The Kurds and the Turks are not equal. You will say, "You will stay there."
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0308par0823	No stealing, no stealing, no Parliament.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0303par0824	Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Hilal Kaplan, Mr. Special, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Sakine Öz, Mr. Tünce... All right. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0309par0828	He's standing up with us, sit down.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0310par0829	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0311par0830	Shut up!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0310par0831	Disrespectful, learn to be respectful first. Be human.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0312par0832	Will he learn from you, Salih Firat? Are you the man? And you're not ashamed.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0310par0833	I'm a real man.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0312par0834	You're not ashamed.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0313par0835	Congressmans, will you please shut up until we get the results of the roll call?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0314par0836	Is this the street, Mr. President, how's that sound?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0313par0837	What should I do, dear? What am I supposed to do? Wait a minute, let's do this roll call.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0315par0839	What kind of disrespect is that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0313par0840	I warned you, I warned you! What do I do?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0315par0841	No, you can invite him to speak in a decent language.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0313par0842	We're doing roll call! [[Let's take a break from MHP rows]] No, we can't give in-betweens, we're waiting for the roll call, and even if you do, I can't do anything, I have to get the results of the roll call!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0315par0845	Listen! Warn me, Mr. President... what disrespect!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0313par0846	I get it, he's screaming from his seat! If this were the place, you'd turn your thing off.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0316par0847	There's such a thing as a clean language, Mr. President, isn't that the language? You hear what he's saying!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0313par0848	Reverend, if he was talking in there, you'd turn him off, he's screaming from his seat!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0316par0849	Are you a man too? Everybody hears what you're saying, it suits you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0317par0850	Look, no one's making a sound, everybody's quiet, and they know it's wrong!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0316par0851	People hear what you're saying, does it suit you?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0318par0852	Bulent, being a lawyer does not require you to defend Salih Fırat. He shamed us, he shamed you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0316par0853	If he goes away, that's the wrong way to say it!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0319par0855	Yeah, there's plenty of meetings.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0320par0856	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0319par0857	Well, Reverend, wait a minute, let's do the roll call, I'm sitting still, brother, I'm not going anywhere! Then we'll have each other's jaws racing as much as you want, and I'll let you. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, here, take two minutes. Then we'll proceed in order. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0321par0870	Thank you, Mr. President. I've never done anything to be ashamed of, not in my life, not in my political life, but in my face.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0322par0872	Well, well, well! Dr. Salih Firat is not for sale. Aren't you the one who said?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0323par0874	Mr. Agha, please, Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0324par0875	Not everyone can be answered with everyone's language. Sometimes we have to be human, first we have to know how to speak properly.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0322par0876	He's lying to himself.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0324par0877	Salih Firat...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0322par0878	..it's not for sale.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0324par0879	...he never leaves with a bargain on his way anywhere.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0322par0880	Dr. Salih Firat is not for sale. Aren't you the one who said?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0324par0881	When I resign from the Republican People's Party, anyone who says that I did something for any reason during my transfer to the AK PARTY, and they don't prove it. I've never negotiated or entered a negotiation in the history of my life, but I don't allow anyone to violate my honor or principles.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0322par0882	Did you or did you not say Dr. Salih Firat is not for sale?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0324par0883	First you'll learn to be a man, learn to be a man.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0322par0884	Talk like a man first. Answer him if you're a man!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0324par0885	I don't want to answer any dirty words coming out of your mouth. I'm returning it to you with your mouth, your tongue.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit03spe0325par0887	I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0325par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal 492. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. On Article 1, I submit to you the motion from Mr. Veli Ağbaba and his friends...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0326par0013	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0325par0014	He's wanted for roll call. I'll take care of him. Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tünce, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ağüt, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Ağcı, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Şeşer, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Ören.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0327par0016	Mr. President, if you're gonna start over, let's go again.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0325par0017	No, we don't have to count it. We've written it down, and we're looking to see if it's missing. Don't be angry at everything, dear.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0328par0018	Bayram, didn't you write two by two in elementary school, backwards from 100?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0329par0019	Sir, read the names, and those who don't say them themselves.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0325par0020	I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following article has been added to Article 2-2809. "EK MADDE 155- 20/12/2012 and the 2013 Central Management Budget Act for the Year of 6363, dated 2/9/1983, and referred to Nevşehir Haktaş Veli University of the University of Nevşehir Haktaş Veli, dated 13/12/83 and on the Court of General Staff and of the State of Law on Article 190." The first word for the groups on the matter is from Mr Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0330par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin, Mr. President, you have fulfilled your pilgrimage mission, congratulations, congratulations.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0325par0039	God bless you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0330par0040	May God accept it, God bless it.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0325par0041	Amen.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0330par0042	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd Amendment to the Law Proposal on the Changing of the Name of a District with the Name of a University of 492. I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, the change of the name of Nevşehir University in the package declared under the name "democratisation" is a tactic to lower the heart of our citizens of Alevi. However, our citizens of Alevi expect more radical changes. Unfortunately, these expectations are being attempted by stealing a finger of honey. And that's a restraining order. Of course, Haci Bektas can't do anything for Veli. It has been in the hearts of men for ages. His tolerance is in front of the university name you gave in his name. He has instilled tolerance and patience in mankind with the words he has spoken, and to share a few of them with you: If you know what you're talking about, you'll get rid of the apology. You won't hurt yourself. The true beauty of man is the beauty of the word. And in the end, there's another quote: Hararet is pomegranate, not hair. You have the charm, not the crown. Whatever you're looking for, call yourself, Jerusalem, Mecca, is not on the pilgrimage. Here, these words that Haci Bektas Veli has made to humanity for centuries today should be a lesson to us today, an example to us, and must be passed on to future generations. Members of parliament, in addition to changing the names of our universities, it is also necessary to train young people who are responsible for the development of the technology and the age needed for free, knowledge, freedom of conscience, free youth, but unfortunately today our universities are under the tutelage of the YOK, our universities are under the pressure of political power. We see the most obvious, obvious example of this in the postings of the chancellor. In the name of so-called democracy, the rector's candidates are determined by professors, but in the end, the candidate who gets the most votes can be appointed, not the candidate who gets the most votes. Dear lawmakers, do you know what this looks like? There's just been some tension, and let's soften it up a little bit, it's like this: in the past tense, a fellow of ours is a county district district manager, and this is faxing the rasat that he does every day to the office of hope, and it's based on wind roses and wind readings. He's writing a report like this again in Ankara. According to the current rasat, the wind will be as strong as the wind, according to the data from the wind rose and the wind's arrow, the wind's direction will be this high. I speak to your opinion. And as I send it to the public office, it says: "Note: Even though the wind says so, and the rose of the wind, so does the Lord of the Lord of the Universe know. Dear friends, it is now known that with these appointments you have made, these arrangements have been appointed by you and that the appointment of the President and the President has been made. With such understanding, we decide everything. You appoint the chancellor, not the one who deserves it, but the one who deserves it. At least stop voting for the faculty and don't make them hurt each other. Besides, in the 2002 elections, we're going to ignore the DMV. Didn't you open campaigns? But when it came to work, you created your own PDC. Congressmans, of course we're changing the names of our universities, but can we correct them? For example, a few examples from my own constituency, the Black Sea Technical University have been decided to shut down computer, machine, business, and electrical departments at the Kenikdü University of Black Sea Technical University. On the other hand, he expects to be shut down, not on the staff and the physical conditions, but on the decision that has been made, unfortunately, they are closed. Again, the topic of opening a vocational university of applied sciences at the Black Sea Technical University of Tonya district of our province has been on the agenda since 1996, and the ministers of the region, MPs, will open a vocational university to Tonya as a promise of election there, every trip they took to that district. They have already established their statement, but there is still no such breakthrough today. While this school was not being built what the Tonyans wanted, it was discussed by the government that the Tonyans didn't want to build a cement factory in the location of a nature, a natural wonder of Livalobo. As a result of the intense pressure of the Tonyans, the government has withdrawn. And my dear friends, Mr. Secretary of State, as is known, expect to be supervised under administrative, technical and assistant services of faculty and institutes, to know the legislation on academic and administrative staff, to take the necessary security measures at the faculty and vocational institute's settlement, to ensure that university exams, Open School exams are conducted in a healthier manner, while faculty secretaries and university secretaries are still looking forward to receiving 3,600 additional indicators. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, national education has turned into a sabbatical at the time of this government. This government's educational policy has yet to be understood. When every national education minister changes, the program changes, the books change. But teachers think that these books, sent to schools for free, are not enough in the curriculum, so they charge parents to buy books for students. This matter needs to be taken into consideration by Mr. Secretary and the concerned. Mr. Secretary, the situation of the classrooms has become a mess. We're going to close the classrooms. You say that, but you have to tell us what the teachers here are going to be and how the students will be raised, whether the schools will be enough. In addition, the National Education Director, who you have assigned to our province, is using the same ladder, so I can't sleep at night, I can't sleep, I can't sleep, I'm on a thorn. He tried to move Social Sciences High School to a town hall, but it was eventually stopped by the contribution and influence of parents and students. Now, Mr. Secretary and the esteemed MPs, I'm running out of time, but I'd like to show you one more thing. Look, dear Minister, this is a school built by TOKI in Akçaabat Yıldızlı district, 32 classrooms. There's a high-voltage line right next to it. Now the parents say: "Friend, in the high tension line, our children will be educated in an unhealthy environment. What are we supposed to do? That's not gonna happen. The National Education Directorate then makes a written statement, stressing that there should be no concern and necessary measures are being taken: "It is understood from writing and hearings that there is concern and hesitation over the energy transmission line that has been built over the 32-room school building in Yıldızlı district. As a result of correspondence between Turkey's Electric Communication Agency General Directorate and the Prime Minister's Office of Public Housing Administration, the police border is 11.30m, and the nearest distance between the school building and the energy line is 11.51m, so the school building remains outside the safety zone. So, my dear friends, at this distance, at this distance, at this distance, by this distance, with this high tension line, are being put into protective custody of the school building. In this school, students from kindergarten, kindergarten, and Anadolu Teacher's High School are brought up. Now, will the teacher grow up here, or will the more conscious people grow up here, or will the commando teachers grow up here to face this danger? Besides, our teachers are in a bad way. You refer to them as doves waiting to be released, and at this point, when we look at it, national education must be corrected quickly; now, we need to train, not to teach, but to prepare for the level of Turkish youth, which is the communicable civilization. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0331par0067	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari, please.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0332par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have promised to express the opinion of our group on the 2nd article. I salute you all. First of all, good luck to Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University. I don't think there's anyone here who would object, I think, in Parliament, and therefore, the common desire of all of us, who would not be able to swallow the name of His Majesty Haci Bektas Veli. However, it must be continued. It is important to give a university the name of a great scholar whom our Alevi citizens, who, at the heart of all the peoples living in Turkey, accept as a leader of opinion. But will there be something in this university about our Alevi citizens, or not? I've looked, I've gone, I've searched the university site; there are seven faculty, and one of them is the seminary. I wonder whether the school of theology, established within this university, will be transformed into a university that will actually teach the doctrine of religion, not as if it belonged to the Hanefi religion of all the peoples of Anatolia and Mesopotamia. At least this college deserves a curriculum like this. As long as we have a name like that, your curriculum needs to be organized accordingly. So we say, "Good luck again." We say, "It's important." We also had legal proposals for the names of other universities in Turkey. In fact, these proposals were to be discussed in accordance with Article 35 of the Civil Code, but the government would agree with democracy as much as I did. As far as I'm concerned, it can only be democracy. He has ignored these laws offered by opposition parties with his understanding. According to Article 35 of the Civil Code, he also committed an illegal procedure, and did a missing procedure. One of these universities, for example, is one of the law proposals we've made: We've suggested that the university in Şırnak should be named after Ismail Al Cezeri, the greatest religious scientist in the history of Mesopotamia, who lived in Anatolia. A thousand years ago, when you say who discovered cybernetics, who invented robots, you can see how the great museum in England exhibited the mechanical system of Cezeri. But there is no transaction on this person in Turkey. We offered to name a university after Ishmael Al Cezeri. When? June 5, 2013. It had to be merged, and its unsolicitedness is against Article 35 of the Civil Code. Now, today, the concepts were always flying, were there or not... when we used a concept of Kurtt, a concept of Kurdistan, we immediately develop an allergy. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read a document: The commander of the El Jazeera Front, General Nihat Pasha, 1) It is the need for our domestic policy to create local governments in a way that is relevant and effective to public groups on the whole country and on a broad scale. In the Kurdish-dominated region, we advocate the establishment of a moderate local government, both in our domestic policy and in our foreign policy. 2) The authority of nations to rule themselves is a principle adopted throughout the world. That's the principle we follow. The Kurds have established their organization for local government by this time, and we believe that they have earned their powers and their presidents for this purpose, and when they vote, their will to live should be issued at the command of the Grand National Assembly, where they truly hold their own fates. It is the duty of the Al Jazeera Front Command to focus all work in Kurdistan on this purpose-based policy. Who says that? I read to you the signature on the bottom of the document: in 1921, this is a document expressed on this bench of Parliament, a speech, and as a message, it was sent to the Al Jazeera Commander as a message. Here's the signature on the bottom: President of the Grand National Assembly Mustafa Kemal. Here's another item, I'll make a statement. I have not specifically read the third article, but I will now read it. There were different defences made here, Kurdistan was there, this was there. It is the general way to ensure that the Kurds in Kurdistan can have an unstoppable level of hostility against the French and especially the British on the Iraqi border, and to prevent the integration of foreigners and Kurds, to prepare the ground for the establishment of local governments, and to establish their loyalty to us from the heart in this way, to strengthen their allegiance to us through the civil and military duties of Kurdish rulers, he says. None of his sentences belong to me. It is a document from Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's pen. Where do you find this document? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey Secret Cellse Reports; Turkish Business Bank Culture Publications, Ankara -- published in 1985 -- volume 3, page 550. Excuse me. So, don't be offended by what we call Kurdistan, there is such a place. The border of Iraq is also Hakkari. It is Şırnak. It is Van. It is a region of Kurdistan, which is geographically within the borders of Turkey. As for the package of democracy... yes, the government has done a trick, bringing these materials here, like this, and moving them here, and putting them in the package, which is essentially our legal proposals, to move us to a point where we would reject our own legal proposals. But I'm sure everyone in politics is able to grasp this game in Turkey. One of them, for example, is related to our oath. At least five or six times, on this stand, I've expressed our complaints, our criticisms, our complaints about this and that. Stop this persecution. We said so. On that day, when we said, "Stop this persecution. I remember it very well" the applause came to us at this time. We said, "Don't make me give away the existence of my child, the existence of anyone's child." That's where we expressed this ceremony, but Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the president of the Republican People's Party, evaluates the practice on Andizız. Let me share with you in a sentence, his sentence to the mode is Mr. Kilicdaroglu's: "O swear, teach our children to be together." He didn't teach our children to be together. We've been hit in the head a lot, wanted to be memorized a lot, and it seems that this oath didn't teach us to be together. But I'm guessing he didn't teach the Republican People's Party how to be together. In the painting in the Republican People's Party, if the thesis expressed in this ant was correct, it would at least teach them to be together, teach them to be a voice. And since you can't teach them, that oath doesn't function, it's better to remove it, and I congratulate those who lift it. I salute the High Council again. Our view of matter is also positive.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0333par0086	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0334par0087	I wish you'd told me in the first place.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0335par0088	Mr. President, sir, you've just heard from Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0336par0089	I've spoken to the President General.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0337par0090	I thought maybe you didn't listen, but you did. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0338par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, you're talking about teaching the Republican People's Party how to be together. We're not, of course, lawmakers doing business on orders from certain locations. We're not the kind of people who come to us with instructions and fall behind that order and talk to us accordingly. We may have different opinions, we may have other friends inside our party who think differently about other things, as they do about this. Let me tell you, as a teacher, the purpose of elementary school is, as our President-General says, to promote unity. For example, it's teaching you not to run a red light. Neither will the Turk pass, nor will the Kurdish pass, nor will Alevi pass, nor will Sunni pass. Teaching not to spit on the ground is the purpose of elementary school, teaching respect. That's the goal in elementary school, it's a whole creation. Arguing all over the world is this: Whose debate is the child? Children are not the state, children are not the family, children are not the society, but both state and family and society have responsibilities to the child. There's an oath like that all over the world, so don't be ignorant. In the United States of America, I declare my allegiance to the flag of the United States every morning. This republic will live forever under God. Freedom and justice are all spoken of as an oath. These discussions are not scientific debates, these discussions are arguments that should be made by educators. It's not a political debate. It's like when the party's members of the group, lawmakers, come to the council and have this ridiculous discussion, they discuss heart surgery. It's a job for educators to do. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying please don't talk about it any more and don't bring up your ignorance. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0339par0103	Mr. President, you're being instructed elsewhere.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0340par0104	What did he say?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0339par0105	He said, "He's a criminal." I mean, what else is he gonna say?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0341par0106	You're being instructed from other places.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0340par0107	Here, we'll start with the best. Now, but, Mr. Buldan, we're listening to this. You said, no objections now, see?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0341par0109	He'll have to answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0340par0110	We're on. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. You may have received a teacher's degree, but since you passed through this educational system, according to this curriculum, you didn't learn anything at all. I'm telling you, you haven't learned.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0343par0115	What curriculum did you study?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0116	Objection, we've come so far in defiance. But if you think we're going to accept that the people who still live in this geography, the children of other ethnic identities, will give their existence to the existence of your child, then I think it's time for you to wake up. The wrong-doing will come to an end, and the wrong-doing will come to an end. No power can ever, ever make us accept it. Neither will my child give birth to the existence of your child, nor will your child give birth to the existence of my child. Don't come out here and try to escape by finding narrow doorways where you're trapped like that. I've expressed it before, and look, what is your mentality? In Kusadası...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0343par0117	I just explained, didn't you hear?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0344par0118	It's been explained.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0119	And you know very well that's not true. Look, I just reminded you, your mayor of Kusada is canceling the concert because there's Kurdish in the repertoire.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0121	Look, I just explained.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0122	You know that explanation isn't true.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0123	How do you know?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0124	You know very well.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0125	Have you spoken to the mayor of Kuşadasi?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0126	Because that's when we got to the artist. There's no such explanation, and for those exact reasons...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0127	Why don't you talk to the mayor?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0128	Now, get away from this fascist mentality, from these bad habits.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0129	Why didn't you call the mayor?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0130	Look, this isn't gonna get you anywhere. This doesn't take you anywhere, absolutely and absolutely. By taunting us, they receive instructions from elsewhere. You can't keep yourself together by attacking us with false information, slanders, such as lies.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0132	I answered when I got hit by politics.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0346par0133	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0342par0134	I'll tell you, you can't keep yourselves together.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0135	You're the one who sold it, Mr. Adil. You picked on me, I answered.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0346par0136	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0347par0137	He denied my explanations, correcting him...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0345par0138	Call the artist. Why don't you call the mayor? Call him, listen, listen to the mayor.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0346par0139	I don't understand.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0347par0140	About my explanations, my Kurdistan statements...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0346par0141	About your explanations...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0347par0142	... He gave false information.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0346par0143	Please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0348par0144	Listen, listen to the mayor. Why don't you listen? Just hear me out.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0349par0145	If he's on the phone, we'll listen.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0348par0146	I'll take it off, I promise. Let's call the mayor of Kusada.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0349par0147	Call it in, bring it in, play it on the council bench.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0350par0148	But, please, can you call from the outside?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0349par0149	Let him hear it from the council seat, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0350par0150	No, no. If you call from outside, I'll announce it later. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0351par0153	Dear President, members of lawmakers, I don't think our friend knows where Al Jazeera is. During the Ottoman Empire, both the region of Iraq today and Mosul and Kerkuk belong to Ottoman lands in World War I and during the period of the national struggle because it is within the borders of Misakimilli. Thus, it is quite possible that the Al Jazeera region is now called Kurdistan, and that Ataturk would want a number of members from here, because it was then the land of the Ottoman state as a whole. We lost those lands after 1926, and the Ankara Convention on Mosul oils at that time was agreed to give 10 per cent of Iraqi oil to Turkey for 25 years. I'd like to make this clear once in a while. Secondly, the Kurdistan region has only been discovered in the 19th century, in connection with the song issue, and therefore, in this case, only the area of the Westerners in Turkey is part of the policy of dividing geography. As a matter of fact, during the Lausanne Agreement in 1923, there were serious debates about this, and the Turkish delegation did not accept the offer of a minority status to the Kurds by Westerners, and they are a Muslim community like us, and therefore cannot be held accountable for minority status. They said, and thus refused to offer Kurdish minority status. Now, let's not try to teach history here, but there is a truth, whether you say it or not, that's the way the world accepts it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0352par0162	Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0353par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 2 of Law Proposal No. 1783 concerning the Changing of a County Name under the Name of a University. On this occasion, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to pick up where I just left off. First, let me say that if you listen to what is said to be a judgment, you will not be able to perceive it. In that sense, we will be guided by a more accurate view of perception, meaning, and meaning than judgment. We just had an argument about the nationals. I'd like to explain it briefly. What is this? Why is everyone in the world defending their own interests? It's the nature and nature of things. In fact, that's what science is supposed to be about. Yunus Emre is knowledge and knowledge; knowledge is knowing to yourself; but if you do not know, it is reading. So you do not know God, nor do you know anyone else. We have to start by knowing ourselves. In fact, the principle expressed in education as a close distance from the physical to the abstract in education speaks of it and conveys it. If you don't know what's near you, you won't know what's far. If you don't know the material, you can't grasp the abstract. That's the nature of the job, education, pedagogic system that's already sitting on it. The interests of the nations are also, in the same way, judged. It is not for anyone who does not defend his own interests, who does not seek his own interests, who does not know his own ground, who lies on the ground, who holds the flag, who does not recognize another's land, who does not perceive another's flag, and who does not understand another's values. People like that can't actually develop personalities, so to speak, in the psychology of a monkey, they jump from one branch to another. So there's nothing in the world that doesn't start with its roots. There's a saying in Asia Minor that you can beat your neighborhood from your home, beat your neighborhood with your neighborhood, beat your city with your city, beat your country with your country, beat your world with your country. It's the same thing here, and it's the same logic. For him, I am universal.......... without you being national, without you being local, without you being regional, you can't be universal. The universal ones have always been the ones who rise on their own two feet and capture freedom through their own freedom. Look at him, look at Yunus, look at the Cizreli Abul Iz Τ, all of which, as I have just expressed, have followed a local, regional, national, universal course. So you don't have the ability to change this system by transforming it into one or the other demagogic or current needs. After we say this, let's say that we don't know any other art in the emergence of the national literature, when we're standing in front of us/ As an unsaid fairy tale, our Anatolian/Friend, while we're singing songs on this road/ Good luck to you, our way out, says the poet. So it's a damaged understanding that doesn't reshape the world with its own song, its own song, its own identity, its own underground source, its own subterranean source, its own source, its own above-ground source, its own values, and its own power, which it takes from it, and it doesn't reshape, it doesn't look at the world, and I'm particularly highlighting that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0354par0173	Are you pointing at us?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0353par0174	Probably not you. Now, I would like to say that it is those who betray this country, who are dividing this country, who are stubbornly and persistently making sense of race. I'm telling you, if we were racists, we'd say we were racists, brother, and we wouldn't be afraid of anybody. We do not have to understand or make sense of the concept of Turk (Turkish) in the way you think or design it. The concept of Turk (Turkish) is a cultural concept, and this concept is at a point and in a state that internalises the entire nation. Look, the Turkish word is...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0355par0176	Who described the Turkish concept?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0353par0177	Once a country has an imperial balance, there's no racism, there's no racism in a Muslim country. A society knows that if it has a religion of Islam, the Arab is not superior to Fars, and therefore I am a Muslim. It is not a person who can express himself by compressing himself in a narrow ethnic concept; it contradicts itself. And when you look at this historical acquisitor, in all the historical structures that the Turks have built, in all the organizations, they've worked with them by combining dozens, hundreds of tribes, different ethnic structures, different religious structures, even different religions, and they've said that they're not different from themselves. Look at the Ottoman Empire. The neighborhood I live in is Mehmet Pasha neighborhood and we are not bothered to live in the neighborhood of Mehmet Pasha neighborhood. Look here, you have Abdullah Cevdet, you have Ziya Gökalp, you have it. Which one of these is isolated, you're ethnically disabled, or something? None of this exists. Some unfortunate words and phrases expressed in some periods of history, such as a law, as if it were a long-standing procedure, have expressed a racial concept over them, and therefore why should I present the Turkish presence? There's no such thing. One nation can never survive under the pressure of another group, another society, under threat, under bluff, under blackmail. The nation's survival is at stake in a goal of its own will, its own mind and cultural infrastructure, in a healthy way, and its movement through it. Democracy is the name of deciding the fates of the peoples. Democracy is a public self-management. So you're not talking about the right to decide the fate of the people. The people have already made their own destiny, and the people have already ruled themselves. Now in this, you can't set boundaries within the state, in the nation, in the nation, in the language, in the language, within the border, you can't think of anything like that. I'd like to go out here from morning to evening, acting in separatism, or in approaches that mean it, and make some evaluations that only connect those who make those evaluations, especially out loud from here. When it comes to Haci Bektashi Veli, I must say that there is a need for people like Haci Bektashi Veli, such as Yunus Emre, such as Satuk Buğra Khan, whom we call "kutb. " Look, I'd like to tell you a few things from Haci Bektashi Veli. It says: "Do not hurt even if you are hurt. " Look at the nobility, look at the depth, look at the sacrifice and the waiver. It says: "If he dies, he dies from the flesh, and the souls die from the flesh." And he also says: "The first position of the Mafifet people is decent." It's what we call "Edep or Hu!" Again, I have three good friends. When I leave this world, one stays home, one stays on the road, and one comes with me. He who stays at home is my property, and he who stays at home is my kin, and he who comes with me is my goodness. Love of God, love of man, tolerance, sharing, social peace, honesty is one of the principles of Haci Bektashi Veli. So it's a step in the right direction to name a university, but it's unfortunate to bring it and put it in a demo package, which is called a democrat. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0356par0189	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Huseyin Aygün. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0357par0193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, everyone who spoke from this platform, especially the MHP, has demonstrated with great Ottoman praise how humanly our profession has been combined with Hadji Bektashi Veli. I don't already stress the AKP people because they're the enemies of the Republic who are very good at praising everything of the Ottomans.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0358par0195	Look at you, look at you!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0359par0196	You'll look in the mirror for the definition of hostile to the Republic.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0358par0197	Based on what?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0360par0198	Now, in 1911, the Ottoman Empire took the district of Nazimiye...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0361par0200	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0362par0201	You're one of the most beautiful people Stockholm syndrome has ever described.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0361par0202	Mr. Ash, please... I can't hear the preacher.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0363par0204	The Ottoman regime, which you praised so much in the district of Redkilise, was made by Nazimiye in 1911, by the name of the grandson of Padişah. Only named after a small grandson of the king. After the defeat of the Balkans, many Greek names in Bulgarian have been called Babiali, who has tried to change their name to Islam in the Balkan occupation process. Let's go on: this highly abused, the policy of changing names of the Republic, the 30,280 names that you've always criticised, changed -- 12,000 villages -- has changed a total of 9,000 and so on in 1956, the Advention Commission, founded by Menderes. So the one-third that you've praised so much has been accepted. We won't be feeding Erdogan, which you always remind us of. Adnan Menderes, who you used to refer to as Adnan Menderes, has changed it. Therefore, the Republic's sins include the Ottomans in the republic. That's what I have to say in terms of informing the House. Now, let me tell you about the name of Haci Bektas Veli. The friendship of the lion and the lamb has always been mentioned, and everyone has made this beautiful emphasis, but the Istanbul Refugee Platform, which met today under the roof of the Human Rights Association in Istanbul, has announced a report. There is a sentence in the report of the 200,000 asylum seekers in Turkey's 800,000 who remain in the camps: "Cerce, Roma, Christians and Alevi refugees who remain in camps do not want to stay in camps. " They do not want to go to camps despite the governors' insistences, the trustees' promises to prepare space. Here, a month ago, it was in the papers, where we can remind you of the drama of the Turkmen Alekis who stayed in the parks in Istanbul. So when we talk about the friendship of the lion and the lamb, we see that you have once again demonstrated your policy of peace, which has just been denied, even by inviting 800,000 refugees into the country. Now, there is also much to be said about Haci Bektas, but let me tell you something: You are doing Haci Bektas University, do so, but Veliyettin Hürrem Ulusoy, who now represents Haci Bektaş's derm, has made a statement about your plan. He represents the Haci Bektas lineage. He said: "We have just fallen into a dream, and a sign has fallen upon us. " The grandson of the great man, whom you have not been able to praise and praise, has described this change as a sign change. You know why? In Haci Bektas, that Nevşehir University you're going to change to college has a seminary in it, but there's not even an Alekilik research institute. I also looked at where there is one in Turkey. I told you, I don't come here and talk nonsense, that's what the preachers always do. There are three places: one in Dersim, one in Çorum, and one in Gazi. There's a friend named Osman Curri in the stockroom, a well-known academic publication. This is the record of a friend who graduated from Ankara in 1985 and graduated from theology school in 1990, who was the most published in the history of the Alekilik Research Centre at Hitit University. I guess you'll see what comes out of this for the Aflammatory. The fellow in Gazi is an assistant professor named Hussein Silver. I looked at his career, and he's a food medic, so we can look at his ethnic identities, his origins, his records, and think about how to make scientific production from there. You can only tell from the records of these names that nothing will come out of here. We respect Haci Bektashi's way very much, but how does the AKP really betray Haci Bektashi's path every day? Even 52 people who were killed in Reyhan were killed by our Sunni citizens. We know how he divides society. I think the step in this regard is fake and artificial. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0364par0211	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Nevşehir MP Abu Bekir Secretider. What an interesting last name. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0216	Thank you. God bless you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken a pledge from me on behalf of my own person regarding Proposition 492, whose name has been changed to, "Nevşehir University" (Nevşehir Haci Bektas Veli University) and on this occasion I salute you all. ▪ Knowledge is the light that illuminates the paths leading to the truth. The end of the road without knowledge is darkness. The biggest book to read is human. Friendship and conversation are in our quarry. The lion and the gazelle are friends in our arms. Congressmans, these phrases, which I remember some of them to write a book for each of them, belong to the Haci Bektashi Veli, whose real name is "Muhammed" mentioned and we all know it. His Majesty Hadji Bektas died in the 13th century in the land of Nevşehir, where he settled. After him, this village was known as Bektas the Haci. Of course, it's impossible to give him satisfying information about himself in such a short time. But I think the best way to sum it up would be to say that he is the modern man, Haci Bayram Veli, Yunus Emre, Sheikh Edebali, to us, and His Majesty Hajji Bektas. From the center of Asia Minor, not only Asia Minor, but today, the Balkans, the Middle East, even many parts of the Islamic world have been lit up, drinking from this spring to blood. Now, it has been a great honor to have our grandchildren, eight hundred years ago, to offer the name of our fellow man who valued knowledge so much, to the only university in his own land, where the tomb was found. In 2007, one of the dreams that the AK PARTI government has made is that about 90 percent of Nevşehir University's philanthropic grandchildren have built today, hopefully with the approval of the General Assembly, perhaps with its spirituality, will be very meaningful to include the name of our university in its name. I'd like to take this opportunity to explain to both the commission and the press and a few moments ago, an issue addressed to the opposition lawmakers in the General Assembly. The study of a Haci Bektashi Veli research and implementation institute, which is planned to be opened within our university, has been closely monitored by us and by the Minister, and has also been illuminated by the commission's study. Of course, our CHP MPs in particular had a few criticisms. As the son of the region, I would like to share a few things with you sincerely and not hurt or hurt the soul of Haci Bektashi Veli. We've traveled through all of those Alevi villages, friends, both in the election and after the election, from time to time, with different cultural and political activities. It's true that the mosques in villages where all of them are Alevi -- 100 percent of the Alevi population -- were built, but that didn't happen during our reign, so I can at least say it for my city.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0366par0227	There's Manisa, there's Manisa.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0228	It's on the signs that most of them were made after the 1980 revolution.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0366par0229	Manisa was made last week.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0230	Again, statistics on the number of algebras will be understood by a simple math account of how long the statistics are up to our power, and how many are after us.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0366par0231	Good work!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0232	Master, we call you Bektashi Veli. Don't just take the guardian from here and be offended. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I would like to repeat once again that we are on the path of Muhammad, the Haci Bektashi Veli. Again, the way of Bektashi Veli was said. Again, I'd like to share one thing, that's the way we made Hadji Beştaş, the way the AK PARTY did...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0367par0236	What year is it?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0237	...not the city of CHP.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0368par0239	Did you change the bracelets and give me the money?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0240	For the reasons I'm trying to explain upstairs, we're not just asking the AK PARTY Group for support, we're asking for support from all groups.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0368par0241	Did you cash in the bracelets at home? You did it with government money.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0242	The package of democratization announced by our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0368par0243	You cashed the bracelets at home? You cashed the bracelets?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0369par0244	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0365par0245	In fact, eight hundred years ago, I stop speaking in His Majesty's words: let's be one, let's be big, let's be alive. My respects.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0369par0248	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0370par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0371par0252	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0369par0253	Wait a second... Teacher, I've started.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0372par0255	I just want to say one thing from here.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0369par0256	I've started, Hajji. The clock is ticking.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0372par0257	But it's very important. Now, look, the application for the establishment of the institute is in 2009; you know, it's 2013, you have to add that.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0373par0259	It's a lie, it's a lie.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0374par0260	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0375par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister here, Mr. Secretary, although he doesn't listen, but Mr. Minister, there was an earthquake on 12 November 1999 in Bolu. I don't know if you remember, as a result of this earthquake, many buildings were damaged, especially public buildings. In particular, a serious study has been conducted by the State Department of Environment and Urbanism, and it turns out that just before schools opened, a large number of schools in Bolu have been damaged, I might add, and it turns out that it has been damaged. Reports of this are in the governor's office, and although there are reports, the extent of the damage is hidden from the public, continuing teaching at these schools at Bolu headquarters. I don't know if you know anything about this, but at least now you know. What are you going to do next? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0376par0264	Dear Little...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0377par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do schools run in Syrian refugees' camps? What is done for Syrian children who cannot attend Turkish schools due to language problems? Are Syrian refugees living outside the camp being given financial assistance or the same assistance? Are Syrian refugees living outside the camp being monitored or helped with health conditions? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0378par0269	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0379par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question. A problem we've had since I became a congressman is in Malatya. There is a system we call the transport system. With this transport system, students from villages are moving to schools. Unfortunately, in Malatya, our town -- I also asked Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, the other day -- students still haven't been able to go to schools, not because of the failure of the transport system; they still haven't been able to open schools; Malatya's poor, poor students and intelligent students still haven't been able to start school. Unfortunately, this is happening every year, and we say it every year, and there's still no solution. I don't understand. It's obvious the school will open three months ago on September 16th. Everyone knows, the Minister knows, he knows national education, but there's no solution. He can't make the tender on this issue, national education. What kind of Ministry? Why are Malatian students still training? I'm insubordinate. There's nothing more to say, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0380par0273	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0381par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'm afraid from your answer to the question about Manisa Science High School, you don't realize the seriousness of the matter. Manisa Fen High is the best of all of us, and we want to keep Manisa's hard-working, capable, future successful children in our city. So far they've either gone to Izmir, or even to a district of Turgutlu, Halil Kale Fen High School. Register this year to the high-profile students at Menisa Fen High School. The campaign was held. The families who fit in are now at a very serious disadvantage because in the last 15 days, the school has been given imam-hatip high school for social sciences within the science school. The science high school was stuck; its labs and extra classrooms were all lectured on social sciences; science high school was no longer a science school. Please give me a satisfactory answer on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0382par0278	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0383par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there is a school in the district of Darıca, in the district of Koleeli, built by the Security Bank Mensups Aid and Cultural Association, Deniz Stars Technical and Industrial School. The property of this school is owned by the treasure, within which there is a semi-Olympic swimming pool, a closed gym and a fitness gym. I'm asking you who's running this facility, even though all the maintenance, repair, operating costs, water, electricity, heating and personnel costs are covered by the City Department. I know, and I want you to look into it. I'd like you to find out who's next of kin. Is it the public's expense, the wrongful profit of others, the principal of the school, the director of the State National Education, or is it known to the Ministry to pass? For your information. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0384par0282	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0283	Let me start at the end. I understand at Starfish Technical and Industrial School that you say there's abuse involved, and you know it, and I don't. I'll look into it, I'll get the investigation done, I'll brief you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0386par0285	I'll introduce you with a question motion.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0286	That's the first I've heard of it right now. If there is, we'll investigate, we'll find out, we'll do what's necessary. I didn't answer about Manisa Fen High School, Social Sciences High School, so I thought I'd look into it. Now, the information I got from my friends on the occasion was this: ▪ There is only one problem with food that comes from this congestion. Other than that, there's nothing wrong with the fact that Fen High and Social Sciences High School are in the same building. Now, that could be a typical bureaucrat's answer, or it could be true.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0387par0288	That's not true.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0289	Your claim is that there's a serious intensity here, that students are being victimized.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0387par0290	The PTA and the PTA...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0291	The school's family association also asserts similar claims, says a friend of ours from there. Okay, let's look into it, see how we can solve a victim. The Malatian transport system, the poor, the poor students are being victimized. The matter is... now, as I just answered another question, the problem is largely due to the schedule of the recording process. Here's what happens: the records of secondary schools continue until the opening of schools.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0294	Not at all.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0295	It's only after schools open that determines which students move from where to where.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0296	He's got that problem, it's not about him. Mr. Secretary, it has nothing to do with him, please believe me.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0297	Under the tender legislation for the Public Contractorship, after this date, transport tenders can be completed in two months.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0298	Sir, it has nothing to do with this, it has absolutely nothing to do with this. Please, look into it, it has nothing to do with this registration. Only because of the age of the vehicles; they don't bid at twenty years old, or the road is very bad, they don't bid.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0299	There are such restrictions, it's true that such vehicles are not being tendered.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0300	But it happens every year, Mr. Secretary, every year in Malatya, there's this problem, so please help me with this.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0301	Now, we're going to pull the record back a little bit, and we're going to give the contract...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0302	Again, again, it's not about the recording.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0303	I get it. Besides, you're saying that because of the car standards brought in...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0305	Look into it, it's about the age of the car, it's about the change in the road.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0306	...because of the standards of transport vehicles, they may be delayed or cannot be tendered. We're revisiting the standards.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0307	Sir, the tender will be ten years old. It's called "The Car will be 10 years old." There's no car in the district at the age of ten, there's a vehicle at the age of 20.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0308	Yeah, they can't find a better one, right.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0309	And the road is broken.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0310	Right, that, too. I mean, it doesn't depend on a single variable.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0388par0311	I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0312	There was a question about the school that had been asked earlier in the Akkaapı Martyr Kemal Fining Elementary School garden. According to the school principal and the county national education director, a 32-room elementary school building is being built here, elementary school. Because there's a lot of demand, a lot of elementary school students, the existing school building isn't enough. The new building, the one you asked about, the elementary school building...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0389par0313	Not Imam-ian?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0314	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0389par0315	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0316	It's not information that came to me.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0389par0317	Sir, it's on the record.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0318	Sure. I've already warned our friends. Now, I'll explain here, the first school, and tomorrow it'll be done from there. If you say, "It'll be a problem," I asked you again. It's called elementary school.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0389par0320	Probably won't be a problem since you won't be in that position.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0385par0321	But I'll tell you this: in a lot of places, we also have an imam-hatred school there, and we have an imam-hatre school nearby, so is there any chance that it'll start today as elementary school and be converted into imam-hatip school tomorrow? They said, "You don't have one, because you already have an imam-hatred school with you." There are no damaged buildings in Bolu, related to the 99 earthquakes and schools in Bolu. There are buildings that need to be strengthened because the earthquake code has changed, and they're being strengthened within a program. I'm aware of the 99 earthquakes, yes. On the day of the earthquake, I had relatives there, but the government was not there, nor was the government there for fifteen days, when your party or its predecessors were in the government. I knew about it personally as a citizen. Are you aware of the 999 earthquake? Yes, I knew the next day that the government of the friend who asked the question had not known for fifteen days that there was an earthquake in Bolu.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0390par0325	Come on, Mr. Secretary! At the end of three days, everyone was given a tent. Mr. Secretary, you must have been somewhere else that day.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0391par0327	Time's up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0392par0329	Syrian children...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0391par0330	Well, answer him quickly, too, because time's up, so let's move on.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0392par0331	Syrian children in camps, yes, training measures are being taken on them. Outside the camp, there are measures taken by some local governments, measures taken to ensure that their education will not fail, as well as their own curriculum. There are diploma problems, however, as a result of this education, how to get a degree, how to get a certificate, and studies on it continue. The AFAD deals with every issue of these asylum seekers and especially the problems of children from health to education. As I said outside the camp, they're still interested. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0391par0333	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The ranking 75th of the "High School Board, Universitys and Institutes of Technology" of the Covenant No. 5018, dated 3/10/2003 and supplemented by the Public Financial Management and Control Law (II) has been changed as follows. "75) Nevşehir Haci Bektaş Veli University" The first word on the matter is for the group members of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Hüseyin Aygün. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0393par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's mandatory to explain that there's been a lot of mention on the stand. In particular, the MHP and BDP speakers have made some statements regarding the name of the class. As a member of parliament there, I would like to inform the Assembly of the origin of the title. Now, it dates back to 1517, when my class first passed through official correspondence. In 1517, Babıali/de Dersim mutasarfirm, a code written to Ottoman command in the area of Dersim is instructed to go over the tribe called the Redkilise region and conduct the movement. At that time in that time, there was an ancient tribe, a confederation of tribes in a region called the Red Army, and some historians claim that the name of the class came from that tribe, called the tribe. The word "Desim" is the original of Dersim, and to me it is Persian and Zazaca. It's a wall in Zazacada, and it means something like a wall, and local information proves it to us. Now, the name of the wall is very significant, because those who go to the area of my class know, as the various adages say, that Dersim is within four mountains, and that the population is in a region like Fanus. In this regard, I believe that the name of this wall also conforms to the historical background of Derzim. Because the Munzur sequence covers from above, and the people in there have resisted the great massacres of Yavuz for hundreds of years, and they have brought themselves to this day. Now, the orator who spoke for the BDP said something like: "I am from Bingol, I am from Zaza, I am from Zaza, I am from Zazaca, Zazazah, Zaza Kurdım." This reminds me of something: Once upon a time, there was a concept in the works written by Turkish nationalists called the Turkish Kurds. In order to deny the existence of Kurds, they would walk on the snows on the mountain, making a sound of cards, wolves. As one of the unscientific thesiss such as the Turkish Kurds, they would suggest that they were Turkish. The words of your beloved BDP minister, the words "Zaza Kurds" made me think of him, and I laughed a lot because Zazas see him as Zaza; there are those who say to him, "I am Zazazah" in Bingol, in Dersim, in Hünüs. I mean, I don't find it understandable that he's trying to connect them to another subject, but I believe it's Farsi and Zazaca. And there's something about the origin of the word that we've been told at home about the walls and the four mountain ranges over there. Now, other than that, friends, I'm sorry to say that the House has done nothing to restore the name of the class, to apologize to the lecturers. A commission was set up in parliament, a subcommittee within the Council to address the petitions of more than 10,000 from Dersim. This commission has been on vacation for almost a year. So there's so much discussion about my class, everyone blames each other, there's talk about the class massacre, but that commission, which all the parties are involved, has already gone to the Tunceli area last summer and put it on the schedule to meet with the petitioners because the trip exploded, from the lecturers, from the AKP, they don't vote, the reflexes there don't fit, etc., etc. That's how I'll close the deal on my class. I've given information about two Alevilik research centers, the identities and backgrounds of the presidents of those places, and I've tried to find out why those centers have institutions that work in order to assimilated the Aleki community that are not believable. And there's one in the tunceli. It's called the Aflammatory Research Center. I was a lawyer there when it was founded, and there was a lawyer in charge, and he was also a lecturer, a very old man, a very honourable gentleman called Mr. Hussein. This Mr. Hussein was looking for me, and he was saying, "We're going to build a panel right now. Find us a car about the flame. I'm just a regular guy there, I'm getting a car. We're going to go to Mazgirt, we're going to do some research on a visit, get us some gas. One day I said: "Ya Hodja, you're a huge Aflammatory Research Center, so you're getting gas, you want help for the panel, let's do it gladly, but you're a huge university and everyone's watching you." He said to me: "We don't have an office, we don't have an office, we don't have a secretary. Mr. Hussein was the only public official appointed by the chancellor on behalf of the Alevilik Research Centre, and he couldn't stand it, he resigned after two panels. Later, Durmis Boztüğ, the president of the country, persuaded someone else who was an official in the finances to take over the Avenicity Research Centre -- a very important grandfather of the Yellow Saltuk January. And he came in, and he did a few months, and he did a few failed panels, and the last time that Bekir Bozdağ had been booed in Haci Bektas, and there was an unfortunate attempt to punch him there -- and we all condemned -- this Ali Ekber Dede, who collected the grandfathers of 12 of the camisoles in Dersim, came out live in TRT. He said, "It was just as our government was opening up Alevi, and everything was being resolved, and the provocacis added Hadji Bektas. Then the community reacted that I had just asked for information about Ali Ekber Dede, my advisor -- the boy had resigned. So, because the Alevility Research Center couldn't do anything about the pressure from the rector, it also resigned in public, as well as because it pushed the grandfather's hide away from dignity, as well as because it couldn't stand the reactions of the people of my class. It's incredible. These are the serencas of the Aflammatory Research Center in my class. So, even if you call it the University of Haci Bektas, even if you talk about the brotherhood of the lion and the gazelle, there are no scientific studies to recognize, understand the essence of the Aflammacy, to reveal what the Alevis want, there is no meaning to these research centers, to the universities. That's why I told you about these three research centers. For example, Osman Curri is a name that the Alevis respond to because all intellectual activities are primarily a very strange, nationalist effort to prove their Sunniity. In fact, there is a scientific activity in the nail to prove that there are villages of Alevi going to the mosque that they can come to the mosque. For these reasons, I mean, Haci Bektas University... although Mr. Ulusoy doesn't accept Haci Bektas' posting, he says there's a sign for us. I'll see what he says first, it doesn't matter what even this House says. For example, he finds it very inadequate. He says: "This is the name of Hajji Bektas, which you have taken, in order to repair the destruction of the name of Sultan Selim, on the 3rd bridge. " 6 people died on the trip, 6 of them were killed. You didn't bother to call any of them on the phone, so the Alevis don't believe you. There's a three-page explanation, I read it before I came to the speech.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0394par0355	The minister's gone all the way home.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0393par0356	If we want to understand Alevi, if we want to follow a policy in the way of Haci Bektas, more than that, if we really want to set up a brotherhood in the Parliament, we'd better pay attention to some of the suffering in Gezi. I have visited 12 lost friends, who live in Istanbul, Ankara, and İzmir, and nine of them are not Alevi, and three of them are not Alevi. For example, did one minister call a congressman? Mr. President Gul arrived on this bench months later, after the trip was suppressed, after a firm conviction that there would be no coup in Turkey, the United States said: "Of course, we are not indifferent to those sufferings, we share the pain after months." But one thing I've criticised is that the Republican People's Party, where I was a member, gathered a MYK in the middle of the night on the day of the hardest resistance of the Gezi, and we were excited to wait in Taxi, because the police were throwing bombs all the time.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0395par0357	Are you saying that the people in the trip are going to do a coup? You're screaming at people's podium.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0396par0358	He's confessing.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0395par0359	Look, he's confessing.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0397par0360	Mr. Hawk, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0398par0361	The night MYK made a decision, saying: "By God, Gul must seize this crisis and step in to resolve this crisis. "
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0395par0362	You're screaming a coup in front of people.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0397par0363	I'm watching carefully, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0395par0364	We're watching, Mr. President. We understand what you're saying. We listen very well.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0397par0365	Okay, but not from where you're sitting, it's going well.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0399par0366	We said, under the bombing of the fascist police organization that your mercenaries and the public would answer to on the Trip...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0400par0367	You've been a coup d'état. You went out of your way to do a coup.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0399par0368	▪ Why do you call on President Gul? It is clear that President Gül will not take a stand in the spirit of this resistance. We criticised our party and he said, "Go home." He said, "He didn't need to talk to CHP, he didn't even accept the summit." Months later, when the House opened, he came here, saying he shared the pain. Now, in this environment, when the stage is like this, what's the point of naming the killer Yavuz? Killing Alevi every day, sending people from their mosques to prison as terrorists? Yeah, I listened to Sunni friends, they talked, they were all very reactive.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0400par0370	Yavuz is the value of this land, and Haci Bektas Veli is the value of this land in spite of you. Yavuz Sultan Selim is the value of this land, and Haci Bektas Veli is the value of this land.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0401par0371	Don't put them both in the same boat. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0399par0372	They're reacting the same way we are. Therefore, you can't open up Alevi until you have made a sincere statement to Hadji Bektas, condemning the killings of the Ottomans, rejecting the legacy of Yavuz, of the massacres of the Ottomans.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0400par0373	Both the value of this land is beyond your understanding. You cannot understand Yavuz, nor Haci Bektashi Veli.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0399par0374	20 republics appeared in the Ottoman Empire. This is my promise to Mr. Yusuf. As these 20 states explore their own history, as they explore why they can't become a nation and turn into modern states, they're always talking about Ottoman despotism, 20 countries. The Turks are the only ones who are very proud of this tradition. Something's not right here. I think we should read some of the history of those 20 countries. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0400par0377	Thank God we're bragging. We are proud and proud of the glory and honor of Ottoman history, despite you, despite you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0402par0378	Mr. President, during his orator talk, he said that I was trying to single him out, to say "Zaza Kurds." So I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0403par0379	Yeah, that's how big he is. You've complained, you've complained, you've complained. The CHP and the Justice and Development Party were very upset about the fight between MPs. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0404par0382	We were insulted and abusive, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0405par0385	Thank you. Of course, we're not going to fit the history of languages or people here in two minutes, but I'd like to point out that what you're saying is an extremely unfair accusation. Now, if you are in a sense of Kurmanci, the Kurdish is equal to the Kurmanci, it is a false perception. If our dear orator examines Kurdish, he will see in all scientific texts that Kurdish is a language of Kurmanci, Zazaki, Sorani, Gorani and Lori, and that Kurds are made up of people who use this language. We're not looking for a different identity for him, just like he feels, so a Zaza might not feel like a Kurdish, he might feel like a Kurdish. We've never been at the point of pushing people into an identity that they don't feel, and we're never going to be after that, but we're part of the entire struggle for freedom, especially for the use of Zaza language freely, in the main language, especially in the public area. It would be wise for you to consider this frame that I'm referring to. Of course, if historical facts are investigated, we can see clearly and clearly that the first person to use the word "Zaza" for the first time is the Chelebi, and that in the Travelname of the Maharajah Çelebi, they are referred to as the Zaza Kurds, such as Ziya Gökalp, but as I said, they will not fit in for two minutes. However, we are not seeking to force anyone to become Kurds, to take one identity. And, Congressman, instead of doing something about this Zazaism ideology, if Zaza is trying to free his language, he's doing a more meaningful job. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0407par0392	Mr. Halaçoglu, what's up?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0393	By God, now, he said Yavuza, the murderer, one. The second is mentioned by nationalists by Turkish Kurds. I need to fix them.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0407par0394	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0395	He needs to be on the record.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0407par0396	Today, Joseph Hodja's performance is very high. There you go, there you go.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first and foremost, the word for Yavuz Sultan Selim is a very wrong word. When Yavuz Sultan Selim was a prince in Tripoli, Shah İsmail took action in exchange for the political activities and the followers he sent to Anatolia. It's his father, II. It's an incident that occurred during Bayezid's reign with a bastionous Baba Tetel rebellion, 1511. Shazkulu is directly related to Shah Ishmael, which is understood by his name, so he has nothing to do with Aleviism. Flamery and Shia are very different concepts, very unlike each other. We can never call Shiites Flames. Aleviality is completely -- of course, especially the Shiite in Iran -- which is based on Turkmen, mostly, but it has come out with Sheikh Safiddin, but -- Aleviality is a complete Turkian faith. Therefore, we need to make a correction. Secondly, the nationalist's statement of the Kurdish Turks is wrong. For this reason: After the revolution, after 1980, those who uncovered the Turkish Kurds were the ones who made the revolution, and many research has been done in the national security area. So, as nationalists, we need to fix the issue there. It is the result of the conflict: the ban of Kurdish, the ban of the Kurdish word.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0408par0404	I said Turkish nationalism, Hajji, Turkish nationalism.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0405	On the other hand, there is Turkish Culture and Haci Bektas Velî Research Centre at Gazi University. And as a member of that university, I'd like to point out in particular if you've seen the books that come out of there, have you seen them? Once you look at these, hundreds of books have been developed, including the guardianship of Haji Bektas. There's a lot of serious research and scientific research. When you look at them, it doesn't matter who's in charge there, you have to look at who are the people who work in it. On the other hand, I'm done with Zaza. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] David Magice has serious research into Zaza -- one of the great American professors, one of the scientists -- and as they say, it has nothing to do with Kurdishism. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0409par0410	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0410par0411	I mean, you met Mr. Hussein at some point.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0412	We can meet, it's normal.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0410par0413	It's true, you two met. Nice meeting you. Nice meeting you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0414	I mean, look, let me tell you, everybody knows...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0410par0415	No, I'm just saying that for the record.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0406par0416	There's always Alevilik in Anatolian Turkic.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0410par0417	Mr. President, for the record, they met Mr. Aygun with Halaçoglu on this matter.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0411par0419	Reverends, will you shut up? [[Continue]] Moving on to the QA. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0412par0427	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, there were 15 days of government in the 1999 earthquake. I was also in Parliament on the terms of that day, Prime Minister Ecevit. Thus, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Works, was linked to the Ministry of State in charge of the deed. The prime minister has appointed these ministers with extraordinary ministry authority, and they have gone to Düzce, and Bolu. So we were among them. The Minister may have slipped his tongue and said something like that. I wanted to remind him. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0413par0430	Okay. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0414par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I understand from your body language that we're disturbing you with the questions we're asking. We're sorry if we're disturbing you, but we'll keep working. Mr. Secretary, you've put headscarf teachers in front of six-seven-year-olds, because they call it faith freedom. I mean it, really. We all know teachers are role models. Now, some families from freedom of faith don't want their children to meet a model like this, so naturally, they feel pressured. People in different faith groups think they're assimilated. Now, in this case, how will you proceed? Do you plan to separate elementary school students according to faith groups? I'm not really provoking you, Mr. Secretary. I'm actually relaying a question to you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0415par0435	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0416par0436	Mr. Secretary, you've just been brought with you by the MP from Alexandria, but now you don't. He grows 40-50,000 each year, so he grows up as much as the center of a Bartin province, and the need for school at the Schepeli is provided by the private sector of elementary school, the need for high school, the need for high school, and all the property available to the private administration today has been routed to school production by selling property. Have you, as a government, determined the need for the province of Kopeeli and the lack of teachers here, the lack of classrooms here, and what is your projection of the future in a city that grows 40 to 50,000 years? Because it's getting bigger every time, and it's getting bigger.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0415par0437	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0417par0438	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are 32 vocational universities of applied sciences at the University of Alexei. The population is 1,600,000, some 650-700,000 in Gebze, Darica, Çayırova and Dilova. Of the 32 universities of applied sciences, one is not located in the Gebze region, which is called the western part of the tribe. Will you be able to work or try to evaluate these people at a different point? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0441	Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0419par0442	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, what you've just suspected is a legitimate doubt because the answer is a full bureaucratic answer, the answer you received from Manisa. The problem is, it's just the food. They say it's the food. Of course, it's a very important problem, the kids can't have lunch, and there's only unhealthy vendors out there somewhere far away, but I wish it was just that. The science high school's labs were destroyed, became a classroom for social sciences, the guidance room became a classroom, the music room and the art studio were eliminated, became a classroom for social sciences. Besides, the students are taking separate recesses because the arteries don't carry all those students. This time, the last ten minutes of classes, the first ten minutes of the class go by in noise. In science high school, it's a very serious and very dramatic thing to say, his word is certainly valuable to you, and the director of Manisa Fen High who rebelled against the situation has graduated from imam-hakip high school. An imam-hakip graduate of high school, Mr. Secretary, is insubordinate to these injustices to make room for the imam-hakip.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0444	Your Highness...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0420par0445	Thank you. Mr. Minister, most of our citizens living in the village of Karagrey are working for minimum wage and are struggling to live with economic hardship in the District of Kapak, Tekirdağ Province, Turkey. There are 2,000 students in the country, and although there are about 200 students starting high school every year, unfortunately, they only have two elementary schools. There have been no high schools in our country for years, and although the municipality has been assigned to a vocational school for 26,580 square metres of land by parliament's decision, high school has not been held for years. Kids, people who don't have economic power end up in school. It's more or less in economic power, it's full, and it can pay for the service, it's going to environmental districts or cities. How much longer will our students in the elm tree be victims, and is it not called discrimination? We're learning that in the 2013 budget, I think we're going to have to build a school...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0448	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0421par0449	Mr. President, I have a question, too.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0450	Sir?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0421par0451	I had a question, too.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0452	No, I'll just give Mr. Houser an extra minute...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0422par0453	Mr. President, we have an emergency. We need to make a statement on that. Then after Mr. Secretary, we want a word.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0454	I mean, is it something you have to tell the House, what you have to say to the Minister...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0422par0455	We have urgent information to report to the General Assembly, and we'd like word from the Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0418par0456	Well, Mr. Secretary will answer the questions.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0457	This is what we've been saying all along about the teacher's outfit, the role model rhetoric, that you don't have to wear our teachers' clothes. Our teachers know what suits them, how to take care of their students. So there's no segregation between students, period.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0424par0458	The parents are concerned, Mr. Secretary, what will the parent do if he doesn't want to?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0459	Parents don't have the right to blend in with teachers' outfits. Teachers don't have the right to blend in with parents' clothing, and parents don't have the right to interfere with our teachers' clothing.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0424par0460	These teachers won't be role models.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0461	Does it have to be in a certain outfit to be a role model?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0424par0462	If it doesn't bother you, if you don't think there's going to be a role model, I don't have any questions.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0463	There's an answer to your question. They're role models, our teachers, they're good role models. Both our male teachers and our female teachers are doing their best to be role models for our students. Let's not wear our teachers' clothes too much. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, we do. We'll get the information on him to your e-mail address. We've already answered the same question about Kahramanmarash, and we've already given it to him. Well, I don't have any of that right now, but...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0425par0466	There's a question motion I filed three months ago, and I'm still waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0426par0467	We asked the Minister before you with a motion of question.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0468	How much are we short, what have we done? How much of the 40 grand teacher did we give to Alexei, and how much did we not give to him? What kind of deficiencies do we have in what majors? We'll get it all to you, we've got those projections.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0425par0469	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0470	We'll look into Manisa Science High School, Social Sciences High School. I mean, like I said, that's the information we've been given for now, but there's a possibility that what you're saying, what you're claiming is happening, yes. Let's see, let's take precautions. If what you're saying is true, if it's true, if the information you've been given is correct, they'll get what they need. Tekirdağ, our friends are looking into planning the maple, and if it does, I'll give you that information. If I can get the information on the elm tree by the end of the session, I'll get it to you. We spoke in the previous session about the Kool-Aid University. About Gebze University...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0427par0473	It's not Gebze University, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0428par0474	They want a university of applied sciences.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0475	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0427par0476	There is not a single university of applied sciences in a place with about 42 per cent.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0423par0477	I'd like to suggest that this problem will probably be solved within the university of Gebze.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0429par0478	Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4-Siirt Province has been renamed "Tillo." I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 5- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 6-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0430par0491	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, for a long time, the government has set up a wall of shame in Mardin, especially to isolate the Rojava Kurds, and the walls of shame are being built up. Since morning hours today, Mr. Ayşe Gökkan, our mayor, has been acting alone in the mined land, and the sit-in has been in the minefield for hours now. This is a life-threatening area. A possible intervention poses a risk to the lives of both Mr. Gökkan (Mr. Gökkan) and those who intervene. We also wanted to show the Minister's interest in this matter, and to offer the government's authority's sensitivity to the issue, and to give up the application of this wall of shame, to the knowledge of the Grand Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0431par0499	I'll promise against the proposal under Article 86. Mr. Kamer Young, this is Tunceli.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0432par0502	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, Turkey's problems are obvious. He got unemployment, he walked. The state's been robbed, the government's been audited, government-runs are using government resources as their father's farm. Here, Abdullah Gul is going on a pilgrimage on the state's plane. I'm not saying anything about you going on a pilgrimage, but don't go with my money. I forbid him, I forbid him, my friends.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0433par0505	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0432par0506	Now, I mean, here, with my tax dollars, you can't go on the pilgrimage.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0434par0507	State manners require kindness. You're a man of state manners.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0432par0508	Don't talk now! Now, then, my friends, they've been corrupt, they've been walking, they've been stealing, they've been walking. Turkey has no rights, there is no law, all the institutions of the state have been destroyed, and this person, the one called Nabi (Nabi), has brought down national education.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0435par0510	Mr. President, will you pay attention to the testimony he used, the testimony he used on the Minister? Please, warn the preacher.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0436par0511	Mr. Young, please talk about the law.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0432par0512	After that, we came here when there was a complete dark regime in the country, sir, the name of this province, I don't know, the name of this county, is this or this?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0437par0513	You said it was illegal, you gave up.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0432par0514	...where the Byzantines called themselves men or women of the angels. We're still going to those places. Because the wolves who entered the Ottoman Empire destroyed that great Ottoman state, finished the Ottoman state. The wolves in that mentality now entered into the Republic of Turkey, formed by a modern, progressive, scientific leader built by Ataturk, and terrorized the world, trying to end the state of the Republic of Turkey. You have to be a man to understand these things, you have to be a man to understand what I'm talking about here. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, there are great darkness at the head of Turkey, my friends. Why don't we just... Now -- in order to develop this great, huge country -- a modern, progressive, scientific, rational state built by Ataturk, which was founded by Ataturk, after the establishment of a state based on science, the OSCEs were established, the industries were developed, the universities were developed, and after that we raised scientists in Turkey who were able to compete with the world universities.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0438par0518	What college? Where?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0432par0519	Our doctors were sought doctors in the world, not in Turkey. Now, but, you know, like Nabi Avcı, like Recep Erdogan, that's what's bothering people like Abdullah Gul.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0439par0520	Mr. President, would you please warn the preacher?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0440par0521	You foul-mouthed man!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0441par0522	Mr. Young, please, Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0523	So, what did they do? They finished college, finished training. In Turkey...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0441par0524	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0525	Sir, I'm talking about what I know. Then you'll warn me.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0443par0526	But please, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0444par0527	Don't be so disrespectful!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0528	So what did they do? Look, there's so much corruption.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0445par0529	You ain't got no mouth!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0444par0530	What a disrespectful person you are!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0531	Look, do you know who your guy is now buying a plane for $45 million? Mehmet Genghis. How much did you forgive on Mehmet Cengiz? At the Central Compromise Commission? 500 trillion lira tax. Look, you're so betrayed to this country that you don't take the tax from your own people. If you look into the relatives of those great constructions built on the roads of Eskişehir, here are your men, your men, and Abdullah's.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0446par0533	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0534	Where do they make all this money?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0446par0536	Use a clean language, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0447par0537	Mr. President, please silence this agitator.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0538	Why did you remove control here? So, friends, look, I want to tell you something. We're destroying this country because of you. We're taking a brother fight tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0448par0540	It won't even fill the fig core.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0541	Look, who does your power support? Your government supports the men who cut people's necks with swords in Syria.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0449par0542	Who's backing you? Throw it, throw it from the tripe!
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0543	Your government supports Al Qaeda and Al Nusra, who burned people alive.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0450par0544	You lied 40 times in a row.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0545	Now, that's not gonna happen. After he gains Syrian power tomorrow, Al-Qaeda and Al-Qaeda will return to Turkey and the future will detonate the bomb in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because you still haven't had a mind to be aware of it. Why am I telling you this? So you'll understand.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0450par0547	Do you understand what you're saying?
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0442par0548	Look, I went to Hatay the other day. An Iraqi from Hatay has arrived, saying that a thousand Muslims are being killed on the moon in Iraq. The future of Turkey is the same. Who's taking him? That's what Abdullah Gul and Recep Erdogan did.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0451par0551	Mr. President, please... he needs to use a language in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0452par0552	Mr. Young, please... I put the whole proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0453par0554	That's the result of these traps to this country.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0454par0556	Mr. President, please shut him up.
tbmm-2013-10-30sit04spe0452par0557	It's over, Mr. Young. I submit the whole proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The offer has been accepted and legalized. On Thursday (October 31st 2013), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken Thursday (October 31st 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
