tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Erzurum MP Fazilet Dağcı Scream, who wants to inform on the Alliance's 128th General Assembly meeting in Ecuador.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise to inform you of our contacts and studies in Ecuador, where we, as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are going to join the 128th General Assembly of the Turkish Group of Parliament. On this occasion, I salute you. The PAB consists of the parliaments of 159 independent countries. It is also the oldest international organization to work parallel to the United Nations. In this framework, the PAB discusss current, political and economic issues on the international agenda at its general boards held twice a year, and at the end of each general board meeting, it gives its decisions to the world's public. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, there is a human drama going on in Syria. As a result, millions of innocent people leave their homes and seek refuge in neighboring countries, facing life safety, hunger, thirst, housing, and epidemic problems. Therefore, we discussed the situation of Syrian immigrants on the urgent agenda of the Ecuador General Assembly meeting. Our goal was to announce to the world the problems facing neighbouring countries, whose victims are increasing by the day; however, by means of parliaments participating in the General Assembly, we urged governments to meet their humanitarian responsibility without delay. As a result of talks at the General Assembly meeting, a writing committee was formed, including Britain, Jordan, France and Mexico, to prepare a draft resolution. I've been assigned to this writing committee. In the committee, I told the international community about Turkey's assistance to refugees, and I tried to contribute my best to reflect our sensitivity to this decision. As a result of these studies, we have prepared a draft decision to present to the PAB General Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have called for the immediate end of the violence in Syria in this second decision that the PAB has made in the past 12 months. The decision states that 1 million Syrian refugees have taken refuge in neighbouring countries. It has been noted that despite the organisation and security problems of neighbouring countries, they are appreciated for keeping the borders open. In addition, donor countries have been urged to meet their financial obligations at the cost of 1.5 billion dollars. The draft resolution was transformed into a decision by a majority of votes at the Ecuador General Assembly, which provided accession from 1,250 parliamentarians and 121 countries. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been discussed as the main agenda of the General Assembly on political, economic and social situation around the world under the theme of the purposeless development, the new approaches, the new approaches, the new solutions. In Spanish it means good living, and its general philosophy is to live in harmony with nature and with other people. An interactive exchange of views has been made with parliamentarians who are taking the lead on this issue. Azerbaijan was nominated to hold the PAB General Assembly meeting in Baku in spring 2014. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Azerbaijan delegation's lobbying activities have been supported. Our support has also been delivered to the PAB President and PAB Secretary General in a letter. As a result of the studies, the 130th PAB General Assembly was ordered to be held in Baku, Azerbaijan, Baku, Azerbaijan. We, TBMM, are pleased with the result. We also held bilateral talks, particularly Britain, Morocco, Azerbaijan and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In these talks, we had the opportunity to express our views and suggestions on international issues that were on Turkey's agenda. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the date and location of the PAB General Assembly is set a year earlier. However, the last two autumn general assembly meetings coincided with the Festival of Sacrifices. Therefore, I sent a letter to the PAB President and Secretary-General, who criticised the same date as the Victim's Day and PAB General Assembly meetings, which are important to the Muslim community. I also wrote a letter to all the Islamic parliaments present in the PAB. As a result of these initiatives, the General Assembly in Geneva was moved up a week in October, and all meetings that were to be held after that were scheduled to be marked by religious festivals. I hereby say I am pleased to convey our work to our great Parliament, and salute our beloved nation.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, who wants to talk about the problems and solution of Roma citizens as part of World Roman Day.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, the most valued lawmakers, whether it's Roman or mud... whatever it is, he's a servant of God, and he's a man. We Romanes must be Roman. We call it Roman. We are God's servants, and we are human beings. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, we migrated from the Balkans, and we went all over Turkey to earn our bread. We're usually west. We settled for bread in the geographical area from Izmir to Istanbul. We make our living by making our bread artistically, or playing instruments, or playing florists, or getting up at night, or at 4:00 in the morning, collecting paper from the garbage. We want our honor. We are the honorable citizens of Turkey. Over the years, unfortunately, the state has given us no light from your father's compassion, the state has always come between us and your father's compassion, and we haven't seen it. His tender hand was not extended. For years, words were spoken. Everything was tried to be done, but in the end, nothing. We have no homes, we walk in the mud, our children are uneducated, our children are not educated. We want our children to be well educated, to be a good citizen of this country. But we've been neglected for years, we've been crowned for years. But we've never rebelled against our government, we've always been loyal, but we've always been punished. It's our fault, too, that we're a little late to go and explain our troubles with dignity everywhere. We're unemployed. We don't want anything, we want food, we want bread, we want work, we don't want money. In Turkey, the state father can't get anywhere by excusing us from the doors he opens to everyone, throwing us into the crown. We have rights, we have rights, we have rights. But no one can see us as future criminals. We're being pushed everywhere we go, no one has the right to push. We are citizens of this country, and we are the greatest citizens of this country. We'll stick to our country until the end. But don't push us, don't see us as future criminals. No one cares about our problems. We have several mayors, and I bow before them with respect; they've always opened their arms especially to Roma citizens; they've built houses, tried to give food, tried to give work, but it's not enough. We're the Roma. We are a structure in Turkey that lives in its culture, values its own culture, but does no harm to anyone. Understand us well. We don't want anything until the end, we want to train with honor and honor. Give us work, and we are citizens of this country; give us more, and we are citizens of this country. Don't let anyone shut us out. Don't let the police catch us where they see us as future criminals. What did we do, hurt this country, hurt this country? We are a group of Roma living with respect under the flag of the Republic of Turkey. Dear friends, yesterday was World Roman Day. I celebrate the World Roman Day of all of our Roma citizens. Again, it has to be Roman. (CHP clapping) Stone, mud, but they're human beings, so approach them as human beings. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to İstanbul MP Durmis Ali Torlak (substantively) who wants to talk about the problems of the naval sector. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath that the naval sector's problems are off the agenda. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, I've told you many times that the naval sector is at the top of the most affected sectors of the global economic crisis that began in 2008. I have to explain again here today. In fact, it's not an explanation, it's the cry of the industry, but the AKP government, especially Mr. Secretary, does not want to hear this cry. Some 40 have been in Tuzla since 2008. With a thousand people working, that number is now down to 3,500 people. Yesterday, when 40,000 people were judged by the side industry, an industry that gave about 300,000 people bread came to a close today, I'm afraid. Today it appears that the shipyards are not working in Tuzla. The AKP government and Minister are not upset. New shipyard investments with large budgets have been left unfinished, tens of thousands of workers in existing shipyards have gone out of business and returned to their village. However, when the crisis begins, the government will take over. If it had given up its speech and taken some precautions, our shipyards would not be in this situation today. If the banks, which are not missing from the sailors' gates to lend money to the pre-crisis, had forgotten that they had won from sailing and competed with each other to call back the current loans, thousands would not be unemployed today, our economy would not be in such distress. As such, the world's sea trade fleet continued during the years of crisis with the support and encouragement of governments. We also own a country surrounded by three seas in the AKP government's rhetoric. They have turned their backs on the sea, even if they say so. The countries of the Far East, including South Korea, Vietnam, Bangladesh, have survived the government's support of the naval sector, and the world has captured a great deal of the new shipbuilding cake. According to the latest report published by the world's most important naval broadcast, ShipYard Monitor, in January 2013, armators ordered 1,087 ships for ship investment last year. The percentage we get from this is one percent. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, we've been trying to explain from time to time our troubles, from this platform and from every platform about the naval sector for about five years, but one thing I sincerely want to say: Mr. Secretary in charge of the sea is still in the classroom, even though he's in charge of the sea. He accepted it himself because he shut down the Undersecretary of Maritime, which is undersecretary of the Undersecretary of Maritime, and thus accepted it himself. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, angry at the 57th Government, during the 57th Government, he provided a loan like $50m in loans during the years of the shipyards when they were in a very difficult situation, and they allowed people to stand up, maintain the lives of shipyards, and all of these loans have been returned. Whatever happened in the past, what can we do next? Mr. Secretary, did he prepare for any of this? I don't think he's prepared. Well, Mr. Secretary, hasn't he done anything good? Mr. Secretary, he's done a good thing, which is he's opened new shipyard spaces, but he's established the areas he's opened with his own followers. So, this went wrong, and it's not possible to say that the shipyards in Turkey are working outside of only and only its followers today. What can be done today? It can be done today: Yesterday, when we told the Minister who provided loans from the Credit Guarantee Fund that this loan was wrong and that it would be of no use to anyone, the Minister said that we were giving loans to those who were credited, and he made a loan to those who only had credits -- not to be given to those who have a problem. That must have put the industry in a tough spot. Mr. Secretary has to do something, he's got to set up a team, he's got to set up a commission, he's got to figure out what's wrong with the naval sector. If he's not doing this, if he can't give life water to the shipyards, and he won't do anything about it, Mr. Secretary, let's shut down these shipyards. And if he can't do that, let him bring in the smart guys, form a team of smart guys about shipyards, find these problems in place, and let them come, and bring this up in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you. Members of parliament, members of the Irish Parliament, Mr Dominic Hannigan, Mr. Ciaran Lynch and Mr. Gerald Nash, who are visiting our country at the invitation of the Grand National Assembly around the Inter Parliamentary Change and Dialogue Project, have now arrived at our House. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0008par0055	My dear President, I made a promise, I promise!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0007par0056	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0008par0057	I made a promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0007par0058	There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The unconscious consumption and waste habit that the whole world cares about, is troubled, and is trying to find a solution has also reached an important extent for Turkey. According to data, Turkey's Statistical Foundation Presidentate is a serious waste in Turkey, where there are 12 million 751,000 poor people. Feeding, health, education, housing, etcetera. Due to our failure to direct our expenses correctly, Turkey has stated that about $300 billion a year is a waste. The government must take immediate precautions by doing the necessary work and research on such an important matter, where the country's resources have been wasted. In order to reduce the number of poor in Turkey to large numbers, everyone has to do their part best, prevent waste, and place the awareness of saving in our country. In Turkey, public institutions, private sectors, and personally, huge wastes are being made and the country's resources are wasted. Feeding, health, education, housing, etcetera. It has been determined by research in Turkey that spending is approaching about $300 billion because we have not been able to apply our expenses properly. Research on Turkey's wastefulness in the most basic areas, such as energy, agriculture, food, water and medicine, must be produced with solution proposals and necessary measures. In this regard, some NGOs have work and proposals for solutions. As a country, we need to consider these work well. Studies say that about 6 million breads a day are wasted, that this waste is equivalent to 450 thousand tons of wheat per year, and that the cost of the waste of water is around 900 million dollars per year, and the financial size of the wasted water is $3 billion, and the annual loss of energy is about $17 billion, and the loss of the drug is $500 million. Europe's countries, which have entered into the search for rational solutions in such an important matter, have also sought projects to prevent the disposal of food or to speed up the recycling process. The world is also mentioned in studies where about 10 million people die a year without food and hunger, but 1,300 million tons of food go to waste. More than 800 million people in the world suffer chronic hunger. Every five seconds, a child dies of hunger. The number of people who died due to hunger problems is more than those who died in the war. In developed countries, 220 million tonnes of edible products are wasted a year. This amount corresponds to almost an annual production of food from African countries. As we look at the data on world hunger statistics, it turns out that Turkey needs to make radical decisions as soon as possible. And for future generations, it's important to bring about the right sense of consumption. For reasons brief above, I would like to ask that "Meclis Research" be opened in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to ensure that the necessary measures be taken immediately by the investigations to prevent waste in Turkey. 13.02.2012 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 10) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16 Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Local governments are also very important at the point when public services are offered to the public, as are the basic organs of a democratic society determined by the will of the people as a result of local elections. It is the responsibility of central administration to work effectively, efficiently, and constructively, by local governments at all levels in our country. In a democratic society, central governments must increase the resources of local governments, meet the needs of local governments without any distinction, and eventually work to ensure that public service is effectively achieved. In this regard, it is unacceptable for certain local governments to be constantly under pressure of central governance, to have access to resources that they need, to be subjected to the level of investigation, audit and other practices that prevent local administration from working, through political views, division of beliefs. Because it's not the local government or the ruling party that's being punished here, it's the people who don't have the services they need, it's the whole community. Contrary to this idea that a fundamental principle should take place in a democratic country, our people have witnessed events happening. In dozens of public reports, there are information that elected leaders of opposition parties have conducted dozens of investigations, work conditions are blocked, not even the slightest need for resources. Therefore, in order to ensure that co-ordination between central administration and local governments, co-operation and harmony, the Constitution will be investigated under Articles 104 and 105. [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Edirne]] 10) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Mughle]] 13) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] 16) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 19) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following are: one of our natural resources is the thermal water supply in the village of Hajir, Karlıova, our province of Bingol, which includes thermal water sources. This thermal spring has a temperature of 70 degrees [500 m] and a fluid of 30 to 35 litres per second. The privatisation of this thermal water has serious problems in terms of the tender assessment, the tender process and the public income it provides for its public benefit. The thermal water has not been afforded for the privatisation of even the cost of drilling alone to the public. Thus, this process has led to public opinion coverage throughout Bingol. We demand that the study of the process of the thermal water found and tendered in our village be established by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98, TBM Institution in order to investigate the public and public interest in the process. The privatised thermal source water in the village of Hajis is a bath in another part of our province and uses the right to operate the spring water used in thermal spa, the owners and executive board chairmanship of the same person are the Autoconstructors Ltd. He's been assigned to Sti. These springs are the Augments of water, Ltd. Its tender to the Sti constitutes a violation of the banned situation within Article 2 (d) of Privatisation Applications Law 4046, which stipulates the prevention of single-hand collection of resource waters. The hajjis' agreement on privatisation Applications 4046 in the process of determining the tender of thermal resource water in our village is that the tender must be in violation of the law's rule of ability 2 (i) which has been imposed on me, that the declaration of the Bingöl to the public must be controlled by how many companies participate in the tender, the cost of the tender should not be determined when the thermal source water is available, and the agreement should not be done in a public sense of benefit cost analysis, the condition of the company's unilateralisation ban. The price paid by the company that owns thermal source water in our village is clearly problematic in the case of the Law on Privatisation Applications 4046, which violates the principle of protecting the national benefit within me in Article 13 (b). The loss of thermal source water in the village of Hajis from the study and privatisation of thermal water has created a social sensibility for the use of municipal resources and people who live or operate in the district of Karliova, the village of Hajis, and the province of Bingol, from the amount of preparations for privatisation and the privatisation of thermal water. This sensitivity is required to be met. The tender of the thermal water supply for $470,000 and the payment calendar for this price is assessed over the amount found in thermal water, and even the calculation of non-thermal natural source drinking water over the market price raises more than $470,000. This must be carried out by the determination of the resources of our province in need of development and the use of it to the public. In the election process of the EC PARTI Bingöl MP, the destruction of the process, which has been carried out through privatisation, is important in public life, despite the fact that there are millions of dollars worth of financial returns and reports of high employment by the thermal source through public investment and that this thermal water will also be used in greenhouse, heating and agriculture. In the same way, the hope of development created by the declarations of Bingöl's former Governor Irfan Balkanoglu says that he is preparing to invest thermal resources in water and can be used to obtain millions of dollars in the field of investments is still likely to flourish as a result of an intervention. Finally, the cost of MTA drilling and the costs paid here are covered by taxes paid by our citizens, which raise doubts about the amount of the cost. In order to investigate all of this, Parliament must open its investigation. [[Bingöl]] [[Yuck!]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Employment, Initiative, Initiative, Innovation and Social Affairs Commissions Meeting, which will be held in Dublin, Ireland on 28 April 29 April 2013 by the Council of the European Union, is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on Ordering Foreign Relations of Turkey, under Article 9 of the Law. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday/04/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. The meeting of Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey's 10/381 main Assembly Research Front, which is part of the "General Discussion and Assembly Research" programme, was proposed on Tuesday (June 09/04/2013) for the purpose of investigating the reasons for the law enforcement force's non-proportionate use of force against those who exercise the right to march and rally, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken. Muharrem İnce, Yalova MP, has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0009par0245	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Violence in the streets, violence in the school, violence in the family, violence in the court, violence in Silivri, violence in the parliament. We've got violence all over us, gas all over us, pressure water, baton. I'd like to share with you what I went through yesterday, and I'd like to avoid contamination of information. Congressmans, 45 of our fellow MPs and I went to Silivri. We believe that these courts are political courts, we believe that there is no law, there is no justice, there is no trial, there is no trial, there is play, and as a member of the law, we represent the Turkish nation as the judges are judging for the Turkish nation. The 80th article of the Constitution states that the MP is a representative of the entire nation, not of those choosing him or of those choosing him. That's why we went there. I can understand extraordinary security measures, I have no objection; it may have been exaggerated, it may have provoked you, but despite all this, we entered the hall with 45 of my fellow lawmakers. At the entrance of the hall, the court's presidential court across the way, the right-hand side is reserved for lawyers, and the tables on the left-hand side are kept blank, the gendarmes cut it off, the MPs at the left-hand corner, and the press members at the front door, if there are 40 seats in the lap, there are 70 people there. Now, we're yelling, and he hasn't even gone to trial yet, and we're saying: "Your Honor, Mr. President, why do you keep this empty?" The press say: "We want to take notes, there are tables there, we can work there." We say: "We're MPs too, look, we're going to talk about this in the General Assembly tomorrow, we have to take notes, there are empty chairs. This time it'll be like this, he says. Why should it be like this? I asked for it. He says. This is an arbitrary judgment. He's taking a break, and after a break, the court has invited us. I, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, our vice president, and our vice president, Mr. Hope Oran, went to the court. Our talks went like this: Your Honor, I didn't study law, but there's no need to be a lawyer to see there's no justice in this court, because there's no need to be a musician to distinguish the crow's voice from the nightingale's voice. I told them why they were wrong, why the MPs were abused, why the MPs weren't put in those seats, why the press members weren't seated. In a very kind way, because I said it to their faces, and I said it in the press statement, your children will not be able to go out in the future. It's not a threat. This is a vision of the future. I also gave an example of Salim Başol. I gave an example of the man who executed Menderes. I said, "Your children will be ashamed of this land. My father, my grandfather, had decided that Silivri had acted unfairly, unlawfully...... it was not a threat. We went out one time, and the statement of Bkent Arinc was: "Muharrem is like the leader of the Fine Organization."; Bekir Bozdağ: ▪ Bandits.; Sadullah Ergin: "Judge is dominant in the court."; Prime Minister: "The judge will do his duty." And when it comes to the House, we'll do what's necessary. Let me sing to the Prime Minister a song by Cem Karaca. He's a master of honor. The prison we're in is ours, so don't worry. So we'll go to your trouble and sleep in Silivri. We're not scared. The Prime Minister's attitude is a direct order to the judiciary. The Prime Minister is instructing the judiciary, saying: "Look, those CHP MPs, do what you have to do, when you come to the General Assembly, I will remove their immunity. What happened? Why couldn't you? Take your immunity, remove the immunity of 134 MPs of the Republican People's Party. We promise you, we'll all vote. (HPP clapping in rows) Come on, pick it up. We've insulted the judiciary, we've raided the judiciary. The Prime Minister knows the king of contempt for justice, his king. Look, let me give you an example. I've never been charged with defaming the judge, the prosecutor, the court. But the Prime Minister was running for mayor in the '89 elections. In the 89 elections, Beyoglu was not elected as mayor. He was sentenced to ten months in prison for insulting the judge in the grief of not being elected, and that sentence was turned into money. I mean, how quickly did you forget those days? Your Honors, if the members of that court have a little conscience, a little bit, a little conscience, they'll be in that back room with them, as the three executives of the party, they'll tell us how we talk, how we talk with our two vice presidents. If they have a conscience, they'll make a statement of interest. I'm telling you what he told me, and I said, "You can't keep the MPs standing, and you can't deal with them like this." What he said to me was, "I'll call you before the trial starts." We'll make our decision as a court of law. Is there even an exuberance with the MPs when we get there? They'll be close, okay? I am the representative of the party's chairman in Parliament. I promise you on behalf of my friends, nothing will happen, don't worry. I said, "Don't worry." In fact, we said, "If there are people out there who are violent, we will calm them down." In fact, the officers asked us for help. Our vice president, Hope Oran, called for help. So we went and said, "We're ready to help." It's not right. That's not true. No one can instruct the court, and we have no fear of your judgment, so you should know that. (CHEERING) We're not afraid of anyone. We fear no one but God. We fear only one God. Look, you, of course, are more afraid of America than of God.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0010par0254	It's called stepping on top, like diesel oil.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0009par0255	My dear friends, Brent Arinc says that Muharrem was the ringleader of this organization. Look, I'm telling you at the press conference yesterday, so that he can write the minutes of the House. Abdullah Ocalan, who recently described him, said, "Ya is a man in his prayer." It wasn't enough, he instructed the bureaucrat of the state, and he said, "That's right, I'll testify." I'm thinking if Bulent Arinc wants to make me the ringleader, he'll look into it until I'm a kid, and he'll find something like this. I'm offering him some research.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0011par0256	Are you like this later?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0009par0257	Now, again, look, let me tell you something else. You're doing a wake-up call today, and we'll explain that in a moment. We're making a motion, you're making a motion. Anti-referencing motions. Now you're trying to put the two of them together here, and you're trying to score a goal for us. I'll tell you this, but it's already in your nature. On November 10, 2009, Suat Kılıç appeared on this stand - Mr. Mesut Yilmaz as MP -- Mr. Mesut Yilmaz said: "How did you pull off the resources of this country?" Mr. Mesut Yilmaz said: "Come out, explain what we have taken, and he has closed the doors. You have stood down here and you have taken the money of the nation, this government." Lawmakers at the time, lawmakers last semester, they know that very well. You're used to voting for your own proposal, but in our motion, you're saying that it's related to the solution process. Our proposal doesn't say that. Anyway, we're going to talk about this in a little while, but we have no fear of a government that instructs the judiciary, or a judgment that is instructed by it, or anyone else. That's how I want it to be known. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0012par0261	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Oğuz Khan Koksal, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0013par0264	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all as I begin my remarks, and I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Dear MPs, as you know, our Constitution has secured meetings and demonstration walks. In Article 34 of our Constitution, it is guaranteed. The Law on Meetings and Demonstrations No. 2911, not only our Constitution, has announced how these meetings and demonstrations would be held, and according to this law, regulations and regulations have explained how meeting and demonstration march were held. When we look at it, yes, the meetings and demonstrations are constitutionally guaranteed, it's done without permission, but there are certain conditions, and I'll be there in a moment. But in particular, I want to tell you once again what we think of the AK PARTY here. In his philosophy, the EC PARTY has already drawn a philosophy about how many democracies, how many rights. In this work, he has also done studies in all the governments he has established that will guarantee legal rights, constitutional rights, and that is at the core of his current work. When we look at this point, if anyone accuses the AK PARTY of not acting in accordance with democracy, rights and the law, it's a false accusation. After I make that point, I'll come back to Law 2911. As I said in the beginning, surely, this law has the right to hold a meeting and demonstration march without permission, but when we look at the relevant articles of the law, there are certain conditions to exercise that right. At the beginning of these conditions, here's the basis for the meeting and demonstration march at the designated time. Gene, technically, the signatures of the committees required to hold meetings and demonstration walks, all of which need to be put together so that there's a meeting and a demonstration march. The meeting claims that our security forces used disproportionate force in the group proposal of the Republican People's Party in the charge attributed to security forces at the demonstration march point. Although Mr. Muharrem Tün said some things outside of that thing, I'd like to discuss the motion, rather than his speech, because the motion is in fact that the security forces are using non-proportionate force. Because the other things he said, I think, will be corrected soon enough, but may I say that maybe our Prime Minister didn't listen very well to what he said about the courts, about the judges or the law: there are judges in the country, and he'll do what he has to do. In the sense of it, it's a promise that every citizen of ours can say. Dear lawmakers, when we look at Law 2911 -- the same law requires shapes on 9/9, 10/4 of the same things -- it says: "There can't be meetings and demonstrations on interstate roads, especially such as these, and when the issue is illegal, there's a certain obligation for security forces to disband these meetings and demonstration walks, if you look at it the opposite way, in fact, I've taken the precautions of 20 years as governorship and as a police general director for four years. The primary purpose of the measures there is the meeting, and the police or the gendarmes are there to fully exercise their rights to the rights of those who exercise the right to demonstration walks, so they are especially there to fulfill their constitutional rights. Oh, and then, when it becomes illegal, of course, it's not constitutional rights, it's disintegration from now on, and this time it's the police's job or the gendarme's job, which, of course, they'll do their job. Of course, when we're doing this mission, there's always been allegations of disproportionate power, because on one hand, there's an act that's become illegal, and there's a security force interfering with the act that's become illegal. Of course, at the end of each meeting, there is a disproportionate claim of power by the people on the other side, without thinking that the meetings and demonstration walks had become illegal. Of course, in this use of force, the police do this in accordance with their own regulations, the Police Act and the Law on Law on Law on Safety and Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Right, which, if, of course, we don't have to break up at this sort of point first, and certainly, without exception, they'll warn us earlier that if we don't break up three times or five times, then we'll have an actual intervention in return. It's the principle of actual intervention first, and then it's the word of handing out, and then the attack on the other side with stones and sticks and so on, it's used to change the thing, but one of the most important things that the police department, the gendarmes, does in the first place is to warn you. If the vigilante breaks up and breaks up, there's no obligation to use force, and the security forces never want to use force in these meetings. They want meetings to be held in peace and in the time and time specified by the law. And that's what our security forces have planned, they've always made changes. When we look at it this way, in recent years -- I particularly want to talk about changes made in the time of the EC PARTY governments -- they've written their own numbers on the helmets of all the rioting forces. So for some reason, when you're a police officer or an officer like this who uses force without his own duty, it's easier to identify and punish, which is a deterrent to use disproportionate force. There have been recent attempts by the chiefs to insert microphones into the helmets to intervene more freely and to allow non-proportionate power at the end of that intervention. Again, on the other hand, vocational training has become very important. In particular, in such cases as the riot force, or in the first encounter with this particular social event, the units facing the citizen were subject to training each year. When you look at it every year, various educations have been subject to training at the point of psychological education, human rights education, constitutional education, Law 2911, and laws that contain it. On the other hand, it is not satisfied with this education, but as our party, as our ministry, new regulations have been issued, and these rights have been guaranteed. So at the point of meetings and demonstration walks, the police and the gendarmes would never, ever use unproportionate force, and they would never want to use it, but when there is an incident, of course, it has to be involved in public order, in public order, and at that point, it has to be involved. We also see examples of this in various places. When we look at this point, we, the AK PARTY, are taking every precaution as a party that makes every effort to use people's social rights, and in this regard, as a party that meets legal regulations, changes. For him -- as in the CHP motion -- never, we don't accept the point where we use disproportionate force. Only, not as individuals -- not as individuals -- but as individuals -- if there are those who don't comply with this issue, the necessary punishments for them are being enforced, and the necessary work is being done at the point of disciplinary crime. In that respect, as the EC PARTY, I say once again that we are against the Republican People's Party's motion, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0014par0277	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Ali Uzırmak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0015par0280	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favour of the Republican People's Party's motion. My respects to all of you. Dear lawmakers, when you say law enforcement, first of all, we're talking about the existence of a public institution that performs a lot of services, starting with preventive measures for the peace of society, to find evidence for the sake of justice and to store evidence. Police Week starts tomorrow. For the sake of the peace and justice of the community, I declare to the children of this land, who have been martyred, who have been martyred, who have been martyred, that I honor our martyrs and respect our veterans, and bow before their trusts. Dear MPs, in democracies, of course, the institution, institutional mentality, institutional error, rule failure, personal errors, all of which must be evaluated and taken measures. Therefore, institutions should not be worn down by personal mistakes, but it is not possible for a democracy with rules errors to maintain the existence of an institution. Therefore, if there have been indiscriminate use of force in Turkey and there have been claims, are they caused by our children doing the practice, or are the rights of the citizen being violated by unlawful instructions? The discovery of this is both important for the rights and sustainability of both individuals and democracy. So I'd like to say that we consider it important to do research in such a field, to protect the rights and the law of the House. Of course, where do these concerns come from? Dear MPs, Turkey is not discussing its issues properly and properly. Because of his lack of proper argument, doubt has become fundamental in society, trust has become an exception. Institutions are looked at with suspicion, people are looked at with doubt, rules are looked at with doubt, trust is no longer the basis. So, what's the reason that trust isn't essential? It's because the power, especially what the executives are doing, is not the same as what they're saying. The government has lost confidence because it is not the same as what they say it is, and the society and opposition have met everything with doubt and hesitation. Dear MPs, by reading some political history, it is wise for Turkey to assess a situation by feeling the public's experience. Turkey lives in Hitler's Germany in 1938; values are in conflict, rules are being abused, rules are being broken, and the initiative is being passed. Now, can you imagine, as an alternative celebration that I may not approve of -- as an alternative celebration -- that I do not approve of -- because it is the common value of all of us -- because the republic is a holiday that we should all celebrate together as a nation with our institutions -- that we should all celebrate the republic together as a nation -- the people who went out with Turkish Flags were sprayed with pepper gas, the Panzer walked there, but in Diyarbakır Square, the bodies that had nothing to do with it were taken away from the field, and the PKK militants were removed from the field, and they ruled there with suits and white horses, as allegedly to celebrate the republic -- and they sent down the flag from the hospital; and they were sent down from the city of Diyarbakır. So, now, when will law enforcement be able to intervene in this country while the Turkish flag is being dropped from the post? Why doesn't the will to send law enforcement to those walking with the Turkish flag show its will where the Turkish flag has been lowered? If such practices occur, how true, how convincing is it to claim that these law enforcement forces -- which are being used in accordance with the rules, based on the law, based on regulations -- are being used in the way that our President, our former governor, has just stated? So, if we want the rules to govern the country, then I say that the rules are important for people, for democracy, for people, to find out who their true clients are, where the mistakes come from. Dear lawmakers, in democracies, individual initiatives have been limited. Today's events in Turkey are a sign of the unlimited use of the person's initiatives. What do I want to talk about? The intellectual commissions have been set up. How did it get set up? In accordance with what law? What budget are these people's expenses from, where will they be paid, how legal their expenditures are... if these are not assigned by any of the state's institutions -- I warn you of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's bench -- in accordance with the law -- who are they going to try to convince? In one country, let the ministers go as they came. Will they convince the Turkish people to move them to other areas so that the crimes of those who committed what they say can be forgiven? Dear lawmakers, with false propaganda in this country, no one should give the public the opportunity to act psychologically. In this country, no citizen of the Republic of Turkey has ever done politics over blood, let blood flow, let it be this, let it be this. I accuse such an accusation of dishonor. No one wants a citizen's blood in this country. Of course, no blood, no tears for your mothers, but if we want to end terror in this country, you have to convince armed terrorists. Instead of convincing armed terrorists, instead of convincing those who bleed blood, how to forgive those who bleed blood, who bleed to death, how to accept them, how to bring them to the public's acceptance point of any bargain. If you try to convince those who bleed, you're looking for the money you lost in the wrong place. They're the ones who have to be convinced, who bleed, not bleed, but bleed. So, have those boards of persuasions been assigned to any institution in the state from yesterday until 2009, when expansion began? From 2009, have they ever received support from any of the government's institutions in other areas in exchange for the project, and have they benefited financially? After today, have they ever been assigned as an identity officer from any government agency, or will they provide financial support from any of the institutions of the state in other areas in exchange for the project at any stage in their lives? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All of this must be illuminated. We say we're in favor of this research motion. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0016par0293	Thank you. Members of parliament, from the Canadian Parliament on visiting our country, Canadian-Turkey Friendship Group President David Emmerik van Kesteren and with him, have arrived at our Assembly. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] Now, Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen, MP of the People's Party of the Republic, who wants to speak against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0017par0304	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the Republican People's Party has made it clear for what reasons we are opposed to the group's proposal, Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal, our representative. In short, as yesterday, our police are attempting to carry out their duties within the scope of the law. If anyone is making a mistake, they are being processed. That's why we don't accept claims that there's disproportionate force. I'm not going to go any further than I said to get to our busy agenda. The Republican People's Party declares that we are against the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0018par0308	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0019par0309	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit01spe0018par0310	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... all those in denial... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0018par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, issued under Article 19 of the Interior Charter, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/04/2013 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 445th and 444th legislatures in "The Bill of Laws and Other Jobs From Commissions" are to be taken to the 3rd and 4th places, and the order of other tasks is to be determined according to this. Justice and Development Party MPs Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and 187 MPs 03/04/2013, and the Anti-terrorism issue, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken, Republican People's Party MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, 44 MPs, 04/03/2013 and 1874 have given a bloody conflict environment to investigate and to investigate the issues of our communities, to investigate the issue of terrorism, and to investigate the issue of peace and to investigate the issue of the Constitutional Parliament and to investigate the issue of Turkey's past, and to investigate the issue of Turkey's peace and to investigate the issue of Turkey's past, and to investigate the issue of Turkey's peace and to bring together between Turkey and its past. On Tuesday, April 9, 2013 (today) the unspoken questions were not discussed; On Wednesday, April 10, 2013, the meeting of Bill 445 was completed; On Thursday, April 11, 2013, the meeting of Bill 444 was completed; Besides working weekdays, it's Friday, April 12, 2013, 2:00 p.m. Meeting at 00 p.m., the agenda for this merger was to discuss business in the "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs From Commissions," and to complete negotiations on the work of the 340th Bill of Law until the end of this merger; To complete the day-to-day program at 2 p.m. if the day's schedule cannot be completed in the following combinations; The Civil Code of Laws 444 and 445 is 91. According to the clause, it is considered the basic law, and its parts are in the following form of the ruler. It's recommended. A Change in Laws With Laws of Laws [[1/750]] 1. Articles 1 through 8 2. Chapter 9 - Article 7 Changes in Some Laws in Human Rights and Freedom of expression [[1/748]] 1. Articles 1 to 14 2. Articles 15 through 26 · Global Voices 12
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0020par0043	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0018par0044	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0020par0047	Sir, in this motion, the AKP group's proposal said their motion was given to investigate the terrorism issue and to determine the measures needed to be taken. That's a lie. That's a lie. It is not the measures that need to be taken by investigating the terror problem, but the adoption of your agreements on the solution of the terrorism problem in Oslo, the Imralı. Therefore, there is no research here. When looked at in this way, it reveals that it was given in a completely distorted way and that the will of those who gave the motion was actually to distort the will of the nation. Here's the suggestion. It says: "We gave it to the whole extent of the process for solving the terror problem." They stand up here and say: "The measures that need to be taken by investigating the terror problem." You've already started the process, you're saying you've already taken precautions, why are you deceiving parliament, MPs? Mr. President, this statement is far from expressing, revealing the purpose of this motion, it's a deception, it's a deception. I want to express that in particular. In line with this expression, it is clear and clear that this proposal must be changed when it is looked at this way. There is no need to investigate the terror problem... for research.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0018par0049	Thank you, Mr. Vural. You're on record.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0020par0050	It's not like it's gonna go on record, it's not like that.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0018par0051	What should we do, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0020par0052	They need to change, sir. So when they say the apple is a pear, we're going to see it as a pear? No!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0021par0053	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0018par0054	Come in, Mr. Slim, please enter the system, and we'll make a promise.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0020par0055	They're going to investigate the terror organization problem! You're already seeing him, why are you using the House!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0018par0056	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0022par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition, a parliamentary research proposal that we've already submitted here and the parliamentary research motion given by the AKP are unrelated issues. We say: "How do we solve this problem?" The AKP's motion says: "How do we support the process?" We do not support this negotiation, this process. How can these two be joined together, met together, without our approval? The AKP's motion is against the Constitution, not what we gave it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0023par0060	Uninterviewable, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0022par0061	When we submitted this motion, there were no letters, no letters from Imrayet, no reports from the daily Milliyet, the AKP had no rational people, we would have a public war with 50,000 people. There were no words, no house arrest, no retrials, we would all be free. There were no words. The AKP had not yet fallen into the well. Now, to support this process, he wants to do the House on the front porch. In addition, Republican People's Party MPs withdraw their signatures in the motion to avoid this game, all of my friends withdraw their signatures, but in Parliament history, the AKP MPs may be the first to sign the CHP motion. It's immoral, it's unethical, it's against the Civil Code, it's against the Constitution, it's against morality, it's against ethics, it's against everything. It's not right. As we say, how do we solve this problem? The AKP says: "How do we support this process?" Why are you using me for yourself, why are you including my party in this? That's not true. This is no way to negotiate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0024par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0025par0065	Mr. President, then withdraw the motion, sir, since there is no proper proposal.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0026par0066	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about that.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0027par0067	Your Honor, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0028par0070	Mr. President, we're dealing with a trick. Under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is possible that we are facing an unprecedented trick. Three different motions, by the signature of Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, are being brought here as a group recommendation by the Council of Counsellors. To combine these, either the commissioner or the Speaker, which is required to obtain the consent of those who have submitted the motion. What right does Mr. Group have to bring the Deputy President here to meet three different, different purposes, different scopes, different research proposals? Taking such a motion as a group proposal will result in your joint partnership with the Presidential Court; it would be unfair, insulting to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I urge you not to give it an opportunity.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0027par0071	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0029par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0027par0073	I will, Mr. Slim, just a second...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0029par0074	Mr. President, keep it up. Then, of the Republican People's Party MPs, I don't know now, enough signatures have been withdrawn, so our motion has fallen, morally speaking, not to embrace this motion anymore. So our friends are signing the motion, the AKP lawmakers are going to sign our motion with a smile under their mustache. There's no such tradition, there's no such tradition in the House. That's not true.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0027par0076	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0030par0077	We're not supposed to continue this meeting, this negotiation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0031par0078	Mr. President, I'd like a word in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0027par0079	Just a second, Mr. Young, I promise to the members of the group. Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0032par0082	Mr. President, first of all, here, we don't negotiate according to our moods. Here the Civil Code of Parliament and the relevant clause of our Constitution are very clear. Thus, there is no violation of the Civil Code or the regulations. Our parliamentary research motion was given in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Amendment of the Constitution. Likewise, similar research proposals may be an offer to merge these proposals, which is our most natural right, and our relevant friends. Here is a request given by the Republican People's Party with the signature of Sezgin Tanzkulu, which is very clear, both for his purpose and reason, and the Civil Code does not have an regulation that prevents MPs from signing the motions they see fit. Hence, our friends have signed this arrangement.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0033par0083	We withdrew our signatures.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0032par0084	On the other hand, we, as a group proposal, have requested that they be merged. If the Council of Counsellors had met, this matter would have been discussed, debated, reached a common conclusion, but since the Council of Counsellors had not met, we, as our natural right, brought the group's recommendation to the Assembly General Assembly. Thus, there can be no obstruction by raising our voice by saying that it cannot be seen, it cannot be done. Thus, our group proposal applies to both the Constitution and the Civil Law. My respects.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0034par0087	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0035par0088	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0034par0089	One second, Mr. Slim, I promise you, in order, sit down. Mr. Aydın would like a word, I'll give it to him.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0036par0091	That's a lie. You don't do politics with lies. Take care of the honor of your signature first.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0037par0092	Mr. Vural, you can't do politics by shouting.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0036par0093	Come on! Are you terrorizing the terror problem here?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0038par0094	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the principles of the Constitution and the Civil Code and the legislature are the basis of the Parliament's work. Don't let anyone here try to stop it by raising their voice.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0040par0099	We're loud, we're talking loud, will you shut up, huh?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0100	Under what conditions does Article 98 of our Constitution command and determine the opening of Parliament's research? Again, the articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code are very clear. Parliamental research is a study of a specific subject. Now, at the point of solving a terror problem that's been going on for 30 years, we have a motion to investigate this problem with all its dimensions. Again, Mr. Sezgin Godkulu and his friends have a similar proposal. Mr. Idris Bauken and his friends have a similar motion. All of these motions are very important proposals for the partnership of Parliament, the partnership of political parties, in the resolution of one of our country's most important issues, one of its most serious issues. We want this motion to be handled in a much more serious way, and we want all political parties to contribute to this proposal, especially at the point of resolution. However, the motion for parliamentary research is submitted by the signature of 20 MPs. There are more than 20 MPs in the CHP's motion. Friends say they've drawn their motions. Now, after a motion has been made, this motion is also a legislative process after it has been entered into the Council's records.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0041par0104	Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0105	We, our friends, have looked at this motion, evaluated it, reveal our sincerity.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0041par0106	Politics has its virtue!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0107	If we're signing a motion on this issue from CHP, it should be applauded.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0041par0108	Politics has honor and honor! Shame!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0109	It's the simplest, most beautiful example of how sincerely we want the solution.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0042par0110	What solution? What solution?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0111	We sincerely strive and strive to solve this problem.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0043par0112	What solution? What solution? Surrender, surrender!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0044par0113	Mr. Aydın, they will be spoken of.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0114	Thus, we desire that all similar proposals be united.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0043par0115	You can't take this motion, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0116	There is no violation of the Constitution, nor any violation of the Law nor of the Law nor of the Law. The legal one, the moral one, the human one...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0043par0118	It's against the law anyway.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0039par0119	...is to support this solution, to be a partner, I say, thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0045par0121	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0046par0122	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0047par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0045par0124	Mr. Tüldir, Mr. Şandir, if you'd like, I'd like to discuss the procedure, and I'd like to give you enough time. But make peace between you, I'll give you five minutes each, in favor and against.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0048par0125	Mr. President, just a minute. Is it immoral not to support the solution? Mr. Group to the Vice President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0045par0127	I'm going to start a formal debate. Please, make a deal between yourselves, bring it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0049par0128	Mr. President, I'm curious about something.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0045par0129	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0050par0130	Then let him take it back, Mr. President, and take it back.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0045par0131	Tell him.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0050par0132	What's immoral is the one who says he's made a motion here to investigate the terror problem!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0051par0134	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0050par0135	It is immoral to bring PKK proposals to parliament!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0052par0136	Speak according to your manners!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0050par0137	First, you'll be blessed with the people's literature.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0053par0138	Mr. President, from the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0050par0139	It's immoral!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0053par0140	Just a minute, sir. Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0054par0142	I didn't say immoral.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0055par0143	"Ohlaki," he said, "human."
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0056par0144	Mr. Slim, I'm turning on the mic.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0054par0145	You're the one who said it was immoral. I said human being.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0057par0146	Yes, I call it immoral, yes.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0056par0147	One second, sir, I'm turning the mike on. I'll listen to you all.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0054par0148	How many of you know what the solution is.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0056par0149	Mr. Tütin, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0058par0150	Mr. President, I just want the General Assembly's information to be submitted as follows: How many Republican People's Party MPs have now withdrawn their motion?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0059par0151	10.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0056par0152	10.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0058par0153	10. What if 10 people did it? Our motion fell off. Look, on top of that, today his servants have gone, to use us for their crimes...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0060par0154	What do you mean, "orders"?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0058par0155	...he's gone, he's signing there. Don't sign my motion, I don't want your signature! I don't want to be with you, brother. I don't want to be remembered with you. He says: "No, we'll be together."
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0061par0156	Mr. Slim, thank you. I'll make all these statements.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0058par0157	I don't want to be with you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0062par0158	Don't... don't... don't...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0058par0159	Pull our motion, that's it. Pull our motion, this motion has fallen.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0063par0160	Okay, thank you. Yeah, I'm starting a procedural debate. Is there anyone who wishes to speak against you in favor of us?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0064par0162	Lehte.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0065par0163	Against you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0066par0164	Against you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0067par0165	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0068par0166	Just to be clear on the subject. Sir, make a deal, please. Make a deal, bring it to me. I don't know who's doing it now, who's doing it after.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0067par0168	Lehte President, in favor.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0068par0169	No, please, settle this amongst yourselves. Who will speak against...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0069par0170	What the hell are we supposed to deal with? What do we agree on with PKK's things?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0068par0171	I mean, in favor of you speaking against him.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0069par0172	What deal? They've already made a deal. They've stolen the minaret, they're making a cover.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0070par0173	You don't have to yell.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0068par0174	Mr. Vural, I'm not asking you to agree to be with the PKK, so make a deal in terms of talking, in terms of speaking in favor and against.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0175	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0072par0176	What kind of style? It's not about the procedure.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0177	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0072par0178	You can't process the motion.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0179	Mr. President, I've been asking for words all morning. Why don't you see?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0073par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0181	Yes, Mr. Chancer?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0182	And the congressman can't ask for a word? You've been seeing their word all morning.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0183	Mr. Young, you know the drill. Here, the group vice presidents...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0184	. Why? He could be the vice president. Just because there's a vice president doesn't mean I have a personality.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0185	Your vice president already does.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0186	No, but, sir, I already want to make a promise about the procedure.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0187	No, sir, we don't. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0071par0189	Now, the AKP's group proposal is not in order. One party can't ask for another party's motion to be discussed without asking for the consent of another party. You can't ask for such a thing when we don't have such a request. It's a procedural motion, you can't process it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0191	One second, I want names to speak for and against first.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0192	Mr. President, no, I object to a formal debate.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0193	You don't want to...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0194	You can't have a formal discussion here.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0195	Okay, I won't open it if you don't want me to, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0196	Sir, no, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0074par0197	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0198	Now, if there's an argument about the procedure... we're saying there's a trick here.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0076par0199	The trick, the trick!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0200	Therefore, you cannot process this group proposal brought in. Take a break, call him, have him re-acquainted and brought in. So with this group proposal, you can't start a formal discussion here. The legal debate is a relevant clause in the Civil Code. There's a trick here. We're yelling, we're saying, are you saying that you don't believe in your own proposal, your own reasons for your own proposal, or don't you trust it, that you're hoping for another party's motion?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0077par0201	We do. Come on, everybody, let's make a partnership.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0202	You have to come and tell it here.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0078par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0075par0204	Mr. President, it would be wrong to discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0079par0205	Roger that, Mr. Chancer. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0080par0207	You signed a note in 2004 or 2005 with 10 MPs. He signed nine MPs, you didn't, and of those 10 people, you're the only MP right now, so I remind you of these issues, you know, let's not go into details. We're 10 MPs...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0081par0208	Why can't you do it, then?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0080par0209	If all my friends were here, they'd all be filming.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0082par0210	Where? They didn't come to film.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0081par0211	Look, here it is, bring it in, pull it out!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0080par0212	What's it to you? None of your business!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0083par0213	Mr. Slim, please, but...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0084par0214	They didn't come, they didn't come!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0085par0215	Get 'em to pull!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0084par0216	They didn't come, they don't want to shoot!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0086par0217	None of your business! None of your business!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0087par0218	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0086par0219	Mr. President, as the party's Deputy Group Chairman, I'm saying, as the Republican People's Party -- friends, raise your hand -- are we getting our signature from the motion? (CHP rows, we pull.) We pull, that's it, we don't want to be together.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0088par0220	They didn't come, they don't want to shoot.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0086par0221	Make your own motion.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0089par0222	Mr. Slim, let me explain.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0090par0223	This motion must be withdrawn, re-controverted.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0089par0224	Sir, let me explain something to you about that.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0091par0225	It's not political, it's political!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0090par0226	You can't fix this the way you do it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0091par0227	It's against political ethics!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0092par0229	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment... Mr. Şandir, Mr. Tül...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0093par0231	You take a break...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0094par0232	Take a break, sir. That's not the way to argue.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0092par0233	I'll take a break, sir. I'll take a break. I'll invite you. Wait a second...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0095par0235	You can't.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0094par0236	Take a break, have them re-introducing. Not if you process it that way.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0096par0237	Let's take a break, let's do it again.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit02spe0097par0238	Now, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, I'd like to make a brief statement: either the proposals of the law or the signing of other audit proposals by lawmakers have been implemented within the framework of regulations so far. Lawmakers from different party groups can always have signatures on the same legislation. A total of 24 signatures were submitted in the research motion given by Mr. Godkulu, and later 21 signatures were signed and 45 MPs signed in total.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0098par0005	Who are the signatures, Mr. President? State it's not us. The signers...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0006	So let's do this: the signatures of 24 Republican People's Party MPs were signed and later signed by 21 members of the EC PARTY, with the signatures of 45 MPs in total, while the signatures of 18 Republican People's Party MPs were withdrawn from the motion. Is that right, Mr. Slim?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0099par0007	Yeah, but it's missing.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0008	However, the motion still has signatures of more than 20 MPs, so the motion will not be dropped, it will not be withdrawn.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0100par0009	Mr. President, the group brings the proposal here.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0099par0010	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0011	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0101par0012	Mr. President, Mr. President, now, this is...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0013	First, I will give my word to Slim, and then I will give it to him. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0102par0015	Mr. President, how many people did you say have signed off on the motion right now?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0016	18.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0102par0017	18 people. We have friends who are out of the country right now, friends we've reached on the phone, who say, "If the band's pulling, I'm pulling." Our first-signed friend is here, Mr. Sezgin Godkulu. I think you should promise Sezgin Godkulu. He says he'll sign, you have to promise him. We don't let the AKP use us, including the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0018	Mr. Godkulu, if you'll step into the system, I'll give you my word. Enter the system, please.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0103par0019	On the stand...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0104par0020	Put him on the stand.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0021	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, just a second. Mr. Godkulu, your position, please. Enter the system from there...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0105par0023	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0097par0024	Please, Mr. Godkulu, I'll promise you your place, so you promise?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0105par0025	Mr. President, there's an example of this before, sir. The Republican People's Party has filed a motion for the establishment of the Bjevit University, and then the Republican People's Party lawmakers have withdrawn their motions...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0106par0026	You're Pirates of the Caribbean!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0105par0027	...and our motion has been accepted as a proposal. In the same way, we also accept this motion.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0107par0029	Mr. Ünal, enter the system.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0108par0030	Yeah, they gave me fake signatures on the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0105par0031	We'd like to have a formal discussion on this matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0109par0032	You can't start a formal debate.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0108par0033	They also brought the Constitution with false signatures.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0110par0034	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0035	I promise you, Mr. Godkulu, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0112par0038	Mr. President, on 1 March 2013, under the commission to investigate and propose the reasons for the break-in of social peace, I submitted a motion with 24 friends at the point of Turkey's establishing a research commission on the sizes and causes of the problem and offering the Parliament a solution. However, while there was this motion, the Justice and Development Party made another motion, and today, according to my personal opinion, it was merged in an irregular way, without my will, without the will of my friends. The nature and content of both proposals are not the same to me. Our motion needs to be discussed separately. If the Justice and Development Party has really wanted the Republican People's Party's contribution at this point we've been discussing since June 1st, then there's no reason for their own proposals, there's no reason for their separate motions. The Republican People's Party on March 1st, describing the problem, supporting this motion that describes the content of the problem today, withdrawing its own motions, being sincerely discussed, but without it, it is politically incorrect and untrue to move the Republican People's Party's contribution to another level. I'm behind my own motion, I'm signing today, but in an hour, we're not gonna sign it with 24 signatures, we're gonna do it again with 50 signatures.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0040	Yes, thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0112par0041	Our intention is to solve this problem under the roof of this House.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0042	Thank you. Copy that. So you withdrew your signature.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0113par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0045	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0114par0046	Mr. President, open up a procedural debate, a procedural debate.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0047	One second, I'll open it, Mr. Aydın. I'll give you my last word.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0115par0049	AKP's irregularity.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0050	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0116par0052	Mr. President, it is in the power of lawmakers to submit a motion for research, but it is within the authority of the group's administration to bring the motion for research as a group proposal. If another party brings in another party lawmakers' motion to investigate, without its agreement, without its consent, to join the Parliamentary General Assembly, it's called cheating. I would like you to know that if you allow me, you will be charged with this deception. This motion must be withdrawn from AKP's group motion. They need to combine it with their own proposals or the proposals of parties he's agreed to and bring it in. Otherwise, these arguments are not worthy of this House or worthy of its rights. I ask that this be corrected.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0053	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0117par0056	Thank you. Mr. President, this is a AKP Group Vice President proposal. This proposal has been read, and Turkish Parliament MPs will also use the vote within the framework of this proposal. Now, we don't know what kind of proposal it says yet, but it says here that we've made a motion to investigate the terror issue to determine the measures that need to be taken. There is no such motion. There's no motion to investigate the terror problem. Here's the motion. The motion says that the process for solving the terrorist problem is being evaluated in all dimensions... ▪ So this will is intended to distort the MPs' will. Previously, you know, with false signatures, constitutional amendment proposals have been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've identified this irregularity. Now, to present a matter that does not have a purpose for this kind of research motion is to distort the lawmakers' will. It is not possible to bring up this proposal that constitutes this distorted will, nor is political and legal legitimacy involved.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0058	Thank you. Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0118par0061	Mr. President, the 98th article of our Constitution states this very clearly: The Research of the Parliament is a study of a specific subject. There is no need to discuss it, there is no need to discuss it. Thus, the research proposal that we have provided is ultimately appropriate. Besides, there's nothing against the Civil Code for us to move here with a group of proposals from an MP to the General Assembly. In the Civil Code, the consent of the People's Party is granted, and there is no expression for it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0119par0064	Where do you have it, put it together. Where is there a substance?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0111par0065	Mr. Slim, come in. Last words...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0120par0068	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, we don't want to be remembered with the AKP. Because the commission we want to set up does not match the commission the AKP wants to set up. The AKP's proposal is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the Civil Code. We, the Republican People's Party, do not want to participate in this unconstitutional situation. All our congressman friends have withdrawn their signature. The last thing they said was, "If the first signee gets it, we'll accept it." We called our first-signed friend, and he withdrew his signature. They're using the side roads again. Didn't you just say you'd accept the first signee? Look, what we want to say is -- in the commission that we want to set up -- is, how do we solve the problem? This is our summation. The AKP says: "How do we support the process? Why should we be remembered together?" We, the Republican People's Party Group Management, asked that this be discussed today. It turns out there's a Ali Genghis game like this, and under it, we've withdrawn our signatures. Why are you still trying to combine the AKP motion with the CHP motion? As the Presidential Court, you are obliged to defend the rights of our group. If you do not defend our group's rights, we will defend the rights of our own group. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0121par0072	Thank you, Mr. Slim. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0122par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Article 104 of the Civil Charter states very clearly where the parliamentary investigation will be opened, the provisions for opening the general discussion of the Meclis investigation are carried out. He says the 101st article of the Civil Charter is to discuss a specific issue concerning public and state activities in the General Assembly of Turkey. Here are some research proposals given by political party groups on a matter that concerns both society and state activities. The practice you've done before was to combine all similar research proposals and submit them to the General Assembly, because once the political party groups have submitted their motions to the Parliamentary Chair, it's something that the Parliamentary Presidency will decide whether or not he's on the agenda anymore. Now, since so far there's nothing in the Republican People's Party Group to back down, we think that if the Parliamentary Assembly brought this to the General Assembly, it's the right way to combine this motion and discuss it here. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0123par0079	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0124par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0125par0081	Then, if it is so true, let them unite with Mr. Baluken, and keep us out of it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0123par0082	There are promises, but I'm going to open up a discussion.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0126par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0127par0084	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0123par0085	But we don't have that kind of procedure anymore. Well, that's clear enough, sir. I'm going to open a formal debate, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0127par0086	I get it, sir, so why are you letting us cheat just looking into our eyes here?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0128par0087	Is that all right, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0129par0088	Cheat, cheat! It's obviously cheating! Ali Genghis game, number!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0130par0089	Yeah, well, politics has its morals.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0131par0090	Well, that's all in the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0130par0091	Sir, it's not relevant.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0131par0092	Say what you have to say in a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0132par0093	This isn't about the report, Mr. President. Mr. President. It's not about the report.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0133par0095	What happens if it becomes a statement?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0134par0096	So, what should we do, what should we do?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0132par0097	So we're waiting here for you not to let anyone cheat or cheat. We say...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0134par0098	Sir, the Civil Code is in the middle, so far the applications are obvious.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0132par0099	Where in the Civil Charter is the unification?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0134par0100	18 of the Republican People's Party's MPs have initially withdrawn the signature of the first signee, which has been reportedly filed.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0132par0101	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0135par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0136par0103	Mr. President, is there one here about the measures that need to be taken by investigating the terrorism issue? That's not true!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0137par0104	Mr. Vural, the Republican People's Party has not agreed to this motion and has withdrawn the signature of 18 MPs...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0138par0106	All of them, all of them!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0137par0107	... that the first signee withdrew it, clearly, especially the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0139par0108	Mr. President, the AKP says that they don't have any such motions that I've given to the measures that need to be taken by investigating the terror issue. That's what I'm saying. They have no such motion. Investigating the problem of terrorism, measures to be taken...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0137par0109	Sir, I'm going to start a formal discussion and then explain.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0139par0110	Against...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0140par0111	Against you...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0141par0112	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0142par0113	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0143par0114	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0144par0115	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0145par0116	Lehte...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0146par0117	It doesn't matter... just write it down where it suits you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0147par0118	Mr. President, I've said ten favours, I'm in your favor, I've said it in advance.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0148par0119	Yeah, I'm starting a procedural debate. Mr. Mehmet Günal who wants to speak in favor of the first word...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0147par0121	I'm handing it over to Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0148par0122	Mr. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0147par0123	You didn't tell me the others, Mr. President. Who took them?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0148par0124	All those in favor: Mr. Elitaş in favor of Mr. Vural and Mr. Tünce. Five minutes each, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0149par0129	Mr. President, when we're building a law here, it's imperative that we obey the law. It's against the law to open a legal debate. Because there's a claim here, and we're claiming there's been a fraud here. It would be irregular for you to cover up the deception using the 63rd article of the Civil Code. You're not doing it right. You're opening up a way to legitimize cheating with a finger in the congressional tradition. You're under a plague. I invite you to the law, and I invite you to the law. I'd like the Speaker to intervene if necessary. This is where you cheat. Dear friends, lawmakers, the right to submit a research motion belongs to the MP; it is the right of another MP to sign the motion given by the MP; it is the right of another MP to sign it; there is no obstacle, but it is the right of the group to bring the research motion to General Kurula, to make it a group proposal of the Council of Counsellors. Now why are you so boldly preventing yourself from bringing your own proposal here that you're basing yourself on the Republican People's Party's earlier motion? There's a trick here, Mr. Ünal. Besides, look, Mr. President, where in the Civil Charter does it say that research proposals are combined with the signature of a group of vice presidents before they can agree on the same issue? Where in this Civil Charter does it say? You are obliged to observe the Civil Law there. What you do here is illegal. Don't mix this council's dough with this House's debate, it's a shame. There's a way, it's off the table, it'll be delivered tomorrow, but it'll be properly introduced. Don't you believe in the reasons for your own request, your own motion, that you're hiding behind another political party's motion? You're obviously committing a crime here. You're obviously committing a crime here, trying to hide it from the public eye. You're looking for an accomplice. Dear friends, don't do this. Come, brave, manly, honestly defend your claim against the nation, there's no stopping it. You also have a numerical majority, so you can pass anything you want from here. So, what you're doing... I'm being very clear. So what's in CHP's motion, what's in your motion, it doesn't matter, but what you bring here at the last minute is cheating against the law, cheating against the Civil Code. So you have no right to manipulate this House's will, this nation's will. That's not smart either, fellas. I'm trying to understand why you have to, why you insist. Why do you insist that your own proposal is not enough to fulfill your purpose? The National Movement Party also has several motions for counterterrorism. Why don't you think about our motions and take the Republican People's Party as your support? You're obviously committing a crime somewhere, your consciences are not clear, there's an account you can't account for against the nation.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0150par0135	They're looking for a partner, partner!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0149par0136	You're trying to take another party, the main opposition party, with you as an accomplice.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0150par0137	Exactly...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0149par0138	That's not smart, but my word is to the Speaker. Mr. President, you can't allow this to happen as an officer of the law who is responsible for violating the internal law, behind the law, for cheating against the law, and for implementing the law, as an officer of the law, you can't allow that. This place is officially rigged. You can't cover it up with a majority of fingers by opening up a legal debate on this trick. That would be illegitimate, that wouldn't be moral, that would be my sadness, that wouldn't be moral. I don't have the heart for you to participate in this, but if you insist, we'll take it all the way to the Speaker. You're doing the wrong thing, it's not right for Turkey's future, for the future of Parliament, you're doing a dirty job here, you can't clear it with your finger. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0151par0142	Thank you. This is Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0152par0144	Mr. Ali Tallırmak...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0151par0145	Ali Longırmak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0153par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. How do the esteemed MPs, a veteran's council, and many times those who bring up the metaphor that you dear friends have expressed, assess these relationships? So I want to set up a commission that will carry out the implementation of the rights and facts commission, with a group of 325 lawmakers, who have a group of 325 MPs, who are honestly trying to run a strategy in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, by the direction of the baby killer, and the Deputy Director of the Group says in his speech, that it is moral, human, that it is moral, that we should be supporting this solution in other ways, that we should be supporting it in other ways, in other ways, in other ways, in order to confuse the customs of other groups in Turkey's Parliament.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0154par0149	That's where it came from first.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0153par0150	Dear friends, who gives you this moral scale? We didn't give you that moral scale.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0155par0151	People gave it to me.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0153par0152	But if you show up on the balance of morality, with a set of zavat, sociology, philosophy, economics, Turkish politics, you will not be trying to form a policy by getting rid of responsibilities in Turkey. It's already come to light that some of the smart guys -- maybe in art, maybe in private lives -- are your moral friends. Hence, moralism is not possible by making roadmates with immoral people, dear friends. It's not just morality, it's morality, that's what it's called when it's said right away. The trick in the scale is morality, the trick in the product, the trick in the production is morality, and the moral thing in politics is morality. I'd like to ask my friends if the solution is to remove the declaration of the Republic of Turkey from the ministries, from the institutions? Is the solution to the establishment of the commission to investigate the rights and truths required by Apo (Apo) and the BDP (BDP) for months to come and be charged with everything that the Turkish state has so far? Is the solution to change ethnic identities into a federal structure by describing them in the Constitution? Is it possible not to hope for the first day seen in Habur, saying, "Is it possible for me not to hope for the first day of this landscape?" "The solution will end up to be the diyarbakir Turnsol," he said, disassociating the law enforcement forces in Diyarbakır, leading the courts of PKK militants and finally dropping the Turkish flag as unarmed in the Turkish Bay, saying that the demands were made by guns, not by force? If the solution is to form a federal structure based on the ethnicity of constitutional identities, to continue these negotiations, to build a constitution with the baby killer from within, so be it! To discuss such a solution under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the biggest disgrace. If you're looking for a partner in this shit, we're not such assholes. If this is considered immoral, we will make you the king of immorality!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0155par0154	Mr. President, he's using a hurtful language.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0156par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0157par0156	Mr. President, please... we need to speak in a clean language. That's not right, sir!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0158par0157	No one's ever...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0159par0158	They answer, sir, they answer.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0158par0159	I'm talking conditional. I know I'm talking about this, and I'm talking about it on condition.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0159par0160	Mr. Longhorn, please speak in a clean language. They'll answer.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0158par0161	We will deal with anyone who says yes to these conditions in front of the Turkish nation. No one has to worry about that. Turkey's Grand National Assembly did not make it easy, Turkey was not built easily. Whatever the price is, it'll be paid. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0159par0164	Thank you. Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0160par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, Mr. President, first of all, as the AK PARTY Group, we have put our hands and heads under our heads, not at the point of solving this terror problem, which has squandered the long years of our country, honor, honor, morality, and honesty. And while we're doing that, we have only one friend, who is our beloved nation. We are with our people, and we are with our people.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0161par0169	What the hell! You are with Ocalan. You are with the Imran.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0160par0170	It is this nation that sustains us in power that sustains us. But both these good people and this history will judge you, and they will answer to you, and we have nothing to worry about.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0161par0172	You're with the Imran. You're bringing them in with the initial of the Imran.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0162par0173	Read Oslo!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0160par0174	Dear friends, we meet the demands of the nation, we solve the problems of the nation one by one. What in God's name have you done for these people?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0163par0176	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0160par0177	What have you done so far? What problem have you solved with this nation? You've monsterized all the problems. Those monsters ate you up. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Dear friends, Mr. President, I now read the proposal of the AK PARTY at the suggestion of Sezgin Tanrıkulu, to your attention. Look, it's just the entrance, they're both there. See, what we say is that the process of solving the terror problem in our country is being evaluated in all dimensions. This is the basic idea of the proposal. What do Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu and his friends say: "The proposal to search for solutions to the end of this process that has cost our citizens their lives is to investigate social peace-breakers, to find solutions... " Now, we've seen this...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0164par0182	Don't read them, read the letters from Ocalan.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0165par0183	What road? You made the deal, you signed it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0166par0184	Yeah, bring the PKK, we're doing it. Be brave, be brave! Have some liver, liver.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0167par0185	We've got it, we've got it, we've got it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0186	Wait a minute, wait a minute. We've seen that every once in a while, the Republican People's Party has been doing the right thing, and we honestly said that if this suggestion comes from the Republican People's Party, whoever's telling the truth, wherever it comes from, we'd sign it. And just as long as we solve this problem.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0169par0188	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0189	So, what happened to you? What's changed? Let's get the delegations together, let's talk." You said you were coerced. Then you said people, you said all sorts of things, and then you said the research commission, and then you coerced it.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0170par0191	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0192	How will you answer to these people? Tomorrow, when the day comes, as he said, history will judge you, and the people will judge you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0171par0194	You're getting the MPs to approve the negotiation with the terrorist organization, shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0172par0195	No, Ahmet, it didn't.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0196	Look, dear friends, another issue: Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 102, 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter of the Constitution, has made it very, very clear that this proposal is in accordance with both the Constitution and the Parliamentary legislatures.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0173par0197	Is it written in the Constitution that you will fulfill the promise of Kandil, and what instructions will you carry out?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0198	Now, did the lawmakers sign it by mistake, or is he under pressure to sign it now, and people will ask you to account for it. (CHP and MHP rows) If you signed it right, that day was right, why was it wrong today? Why don't you contribute to the solution to this problem? What did we say? Yes, this problem should be discussed in Parliament. Weren't you the one who said? I thought you were the one who said, "Let's set up a research commission." In fact, weren't you the one who gave this report, this proposal, before us? So what is the matter with you? Why are you running away? Why don't you support the solution to the problem? Why are you signing your autograph now?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0174par0199	Yeah, well, it's none of your business, brother, I'm taking it from my own free will. For God's sake...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0200	First of all, this isn't fasting, this isn't sauerkraut. These people will pay for this. Again, friends, according to the Civil Charter - Article 102, this commission can be set up with 20 MPs.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0174par0202	There are, like, 20 signatures.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0203	Yes, it was 24, 21 MPs signed it with honor, and under it he signed it, 45. Now you can film it, it's your appreciation, but it's a good suggestion, and if we, the AK PARTY Group, want this proposal to be merged, we'll be able to resolve this problem...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0175par0204	Yeah, well, it's none of your business, I don't want to!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0176par0205	Will it always be what you want, Ahmet, because you'll always be what you want?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0168par0206	If we want your will to be a part of it, why are you sitting there and standing up? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? For once, do something right for these people, for once. You made a motion by mistake, but do something right for once. For once, stand by your words, be a man of your word, and do not run away. Let's all do the solution to this problem together. But tomorrow, you won't be able to escape from the nation, tomorrow, history will judge you and ask all of you to pay for it. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] Once again, you have signed your proposal, signed it, and said, "Let the university be founded in a similar manner." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As an AK PARTY group, we were behind the University of Bonguldak in Zonguldak.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0177par0212	Yes, thank you. Muharrem İnce, Yalova MP who has made a promise against my conviction. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Mr. President, the minutes of the House are a written piece, which means that ten years, 20 years, 100 years later, when a young historian receives today's talks, he will know that the Republican People's Party motion and AKP's motion have been jointly discussed. We don't want to fall into the wrong position in front of history. Look, I'm going to give you an example: there's an hour across the street, and it shows 16.25. He put that watch there in exactly two and a half years. Because the architect here wouldn't let you, he said you can't put that watch there. I'm the architect of this. He said. The owner of the artifact has that right. Mr. President, I'm going to ask you a question: can you change the color of one of those windows across the street where the foreign diplomats are sitting?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0179par0220	No way!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0221	So you can change the color of that glass without permission from the architect here? Can you throw in a compartment?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0180par0222	What do you say? Speak frankly, it's clear!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0223	If you, as Speaker of Parliament, are unable to change the color of that glass without the permission of the architect, not like the Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group, you cannot write the name of the Republican People's Party into a written piece without our approval. (HPP) The leaders of the Republican People's Party, the MPs, are here. All our MPs have now withdrawn their signatures.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0181par0224	Don't pressure me! You can't mortgage the will of your MPs.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0225	Our friend overseas sent his signature electronically. Our friend, who is now in another province, faxed it over. You said the first signee, he came and pulled back. My dear friends, it'll be bullying from now on. Look, it's bullying. Do not transgress; tyranny will not be requited by law, nor will tyranny be repaid by violence.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0182par0227	Fight back with whatever you want.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0228	We'll try... we'll try...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0182par0229	Let's go!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0230	We won't have CHP's name discussed there.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0182par0231	Stand by your words. Let's go!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0233	We won't!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0182par0234	Let's go!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0235	We won't!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0182par0236	Let's go!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0183par0237	That's the job of living now.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0238	Write it down and let me see it. Write it down and let me see it. You won't.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0184par0239	We were so scared, so scared.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0185par0240	Let's go!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0241	We'll see, we'll see. We don't make you use us. [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Mevlüt Abi, let it go. Here we go... here we go...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0186par0245	Let's see...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0246	We're not having this conversation. We don't want to be mentioned.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0187par0247	You'll accomplish nothing.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0248	No, we don't, bro! Oh, you're gonna force my name in there! I don't want to be with you! I don't want to be with you! Jesus Christ! How dare you! How dare you! We don't want to be with you!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0188par0249	Why did you give me the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0250	Take out our names. Get our names out of there!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0188par0251	Why'd you give him the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0252	Yeah, go see your own proposal. It's not about cheating.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0188par0253	Why'd you give him the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0254	This isn't about cheating! Mr. President, I invite you to defend the honor of the House. You, who have no authority to change a window, put it there in two-and-a-half years, as per the legal state's right, as a copyright, as the owner's right, he's right to impose it on the architect; it's his will, it's his will. In a written text, our name was discussed in this report to future generations by combining the People's Party of the Republic with the AKP. We don't want to make it known.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0189par0256	You'll get cleaned up.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0257	You take a break, you bring your own motion. You'll do the counseling board, and I'll hand-sign it to the Council, don't worry - but we don't want to be with you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0189par0258	You'll get cleaned up, so what?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0259	Look, you've been using the House, you've been using the House. We'll inform the council. You say. Is this the way to inform the House? You open a general discussion, you give information, you give information according to the Civil Code 59, someone talks off the agenda, the minister tells you 20 minutes. There are various ways to inform this General Assembly. You've used parliament, we won't let you use CHP.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0190par0261	CHP's expiration date has passed!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0262	In our name...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0190par0263	It's expired!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0264	This won't go through here, it won't go through here, we won't be with you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what I'm saying, that's it. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0191par0269	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0192par0270	We divorced you, Muharrem. We divorced you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0271	You go ahead and divorce your wife! We've divorced you!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0192par0272	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0193par0273	Members of parliament, the implementation has submitted recommendations for the debate of parliamentary research proposals so far, and for talks on whether the commission will be established in the end, to the discretion of the General Assembly in the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors or a political party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0274	We've divorced you!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0192par0275	You're a very naughty man!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0276	Are we married and you're getting divorced?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0192par0277	You're extremely rude! You're an idiot! The deputy president of the entire group...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0178par0278	Are we married and you're getting divorced? What do you mean, we divorced you?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0194par0279	Please, Congressman... Different research proposals for the relevant Council of Counsellors or for the political party group proposal may have been merged.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0195par0281	Aren't you ashamed!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0196par0282	Aren't you ashamed to say we're divorced? How old are you? You're saying you're divorced. Is that what you're saying?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0195par0283	Isn't that rude? Don't you realize that's a rhetorical thing? I don't want to be with you.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0196par0284	Oh, is that divorce?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0195par0285	What kind of morality is that? Isn't that rude?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0196par0286	If a man divorces her, he will divorce her.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0197par0287	You don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0198par0288	At the final stage, the General Assembly has decided which research proposals should be combined. Given such an approach, a parliamentary survey motion given by any political party on the subject could be combined with the motion of the other political party without its own support. Besides...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0199par0289	Who says that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0200par0290	Where is it? Where is it?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0201par0291	Tell me where you're reading from.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0202par0292	Wait a second, Mr. Lawmakers, you spoke, so please... However, your recent involvement in the freedom of communication and the privacy of private life...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0203par0294	We withdraw, no motion, Mr. President. We have no more motions, no more motions!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0202par0295	...the parliamentary research proposals for the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission, which is the basis for the formation of the Consolidated Assembly Research Commission with the aim of identifying the defaults, have been merged into the EC PARTI group proposal, and the group's proposal has been adopted by the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0203par0296	Mr. President, we no longer have a motion, he's withdrawn!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0202par0297	In addition, the summary issue of the parliamentary research motion in the EC PARTI group proposal is not binding. What matters is the content of the motion to investigate the House itself. Since the date and number of parliamentary research motions on the group proposal is precise and clear, there is no room for any discussion. Therefore, there is no violation of the Civil Code of the motion to address the EC PARTY group motion.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0204par0298	Says who?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0205par0299	Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0202par0300	I will submit this subject and my attitude to your votes: those who acknowledge my attitude is correct...
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0206par0302	Yeah, what are you voting for? Shame on you! Shame on you! Do you have the authority to vote on that?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0207par0303	Mr. President, no motions, no motions.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0208par0304	What are you voting for? What are you voting for?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0305	Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0210par0306	Brother, I'm sorry, I'm really leaving.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0311	Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0210par0314	Put it up, don't put it down.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0211par0315	Shame on you! What are you sitting there for?
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0316	Sir, I promised. Oh, dear, are you going to...? Mr. Kubat, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0212par0318	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0320	Congressmans, there is no such procedure in the House. Please take your seats.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0213par0321	You can't, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0322	What didn't happen? That's all I had to argue about.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0214par0323	You'll do my procedure first, you'll do mine first. I have a voice request. Look at the majority dictatorship!
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0324	If you speak as a group, please don't take it personally.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0215par0325	Dear friends, in our group proposal, we would like to discuss the order of the House's bill and proposals on the agenda this week with working days and hours.
tbmm-2013-04-09sit03spe0209par0327	[[AK PARTY, CHP and MPHP talk in front of the Presidential Court]] Everyone's doing their job here. You won't say a word. It's beneath my manners to answer. I'm a noble and noble man. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
