tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Van MP Nazmi Gür. Congressmans, please, if we'll be quiet, we'll be able to hear Mr. Georgian's speech better. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0002par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a promise from the esteemed lawmakers that is off the agenda of the problems of the province of Van. I salute you all and the General Assembly. Before I speak, tomorrow, November 20th is World Children's Rights Day. I'm already saying good luck and good luck to the children of the world and to the children of our country, and I'm celebrating World Children's Rights Day. We all yearn to leave a democratic, developed, prosperous Turkey as an inheritance to our children. Dear friends, as it is known, in October and November 2011, two devastating earthquakes occurred in the province of Van have caused great loss of life and property. However, the devastating effects of these earthquakes continue today, as well as many others, and particularly the SGK and taxpayers, the trade and trade expert, continue to impress many people. These debts have a very low impact on the general budget, but these taxes, which are thought to be collected from Van's shop and from his merchant man, are also very important to Van and to our tradesman. All these tax debts and the SEC are already pressing down on our tradesmen, so our black-and-white thinkers have no idea what to do. Dear friends, our proposal may not affect the budget, but it will contribute greatly to the development of our province, especially the decision to leave tax and SGK recipients for three years. The decision and implementation of the government and especially the Finance Ministry's decision to abandon and implement it will bring endless benefits to the Van province economy. Dear friends, in earthquakes in Sakarya, August 17th and November 12, 1999, the government of that period could also prevent discrimination by applying the decision of the very successful abandonment to Van. The state can't do anything else in the West, in the East, in the face of natural disasters. This is contrary to the principle of equality of the Constitution. Dear friends, considering the debts of taxpayers who have failed to pay their taxes from 23/10/2011 until now, following the earthquake in Van (Apocalypse), a serious tax debt has been accumulated during that time. It was published on 31/12/2011 that the taxpayers would be able to pay their tax debts immediately after the end of the overwhelming cause. The collections can be completed for up to 24 months. However, there is no study of added value tax and special consumption tax, which I especially bring to your attention. Trade came to a standstill after the earthquake, and the fact that the earthquake was in the winter months had a significant effect on it. Most of the people who went to our province came back only a year later. Thus, spending has increased, as has not been done for profit during this time. Given our economic, social development, it is evident that this is a serious economic ruin for the household. Therefore, dear friends, I would like to present to you the very important suggestions of our trade and trade chambers, especially in the province, in the presence of the government. These suggestions are very realistic suggestions, which the government and the Ministry of Finance will make, will make. In terms of all taxpayers who have lost 10 percent of their assets, the tax on the taxation period prior to the earthquake has come due and must be abandoned immediately, even though its deadline has come, or before this date, and before the earthquake date has not expired. Dear friends, the prospect of our tradesmen in Van is that by a study by the Ministry of Finance, the taxables will be abandoned especially from Van's trades. That's what our professional rooms demand, that's what our people want, that's what our tradesman wants. As in Law 4731, income and institutional taxes must be left in 2011 and 2012, and taxes paid must be returned. The requirement to lose 10 per cent of their assets should not be sought. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Gür. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş (Afyonkarahisar) who wants to speak about the problems of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to bring up the economic, social, cultural status of our province of Afyonkarahisar, its problems and its positive potential. I salute the High Council. Afyonkarahisar is one of the most important crossroads in our country. Over two million people pass by the Afyonkarahisar bus station temporarily a year, passing by as transit, and millions of people pass through the opium roads. At the University of Kocatepe, Afyon is hosted by about 40,000 students. In our province's economy, beets, potatoes, fruitism, cherries, cherries, apples, agricultural production, marble, meat and meat products, eggs, sugar, sugar products, cream, sugar, sausage, and bacon are important among Turkey's brands. Afyonkarahisar is a province in 2012 that has made significant contributions to the country's economy and exports of $314m. Our province, the Covenant, Bolvadin, Gazligöl, Omar-Gec, is also the capital of thermal tourism with healing water and thermal hotels and housing facilities. Our province is a very important place for historical and cultural wealth as well as all of these features. It is part of the territory of Afyonkarahisar, which was launched and operated by Commander-in-Chief Mustafa Kemal on 26 August 1922. There are many martyrdoms, mosques, museums, caravansaray in our province, and Sultan Divani Mevlevihane is one of the first to be established in Anatolia. Apart from festivals held in Afyonkarahisar, county and districts, the Classical Music and International Jazz Festival is hosting important cultural events at the Marsyas Festival, which is held in Dinar. Afyonkarahisar is one of the most recent cities in Turkey, in terms of crime and crime averages. However, despite all the positive qualities of Afyon, practices created recently by those who rule our province and undermine its positive image are disturbing and upsetting the people of Afyonkarahisar. Last year, the governorate issued a general decree banning alcohol use and alcohol sales. According to this bulletin, drinking alcoholic beverages was banned in places such as the station, parking lot, square, street, street, historical and cultural venues, places such as the temple. With this broad echo in the national press, the people of Afyon were presented as people who drank alcohol in streets, streets, and even places of worship. As if that wasn't enough, some busses have been put on the road that only women can take, as an excuse that some of the Afyonkarahisar municipal bus expeditions have increased immorally. The prime minister is staying in the same houses, the girl and the boy are sitting on the same couch in the parks, which doesn't feel right. After saying and giving instructions, the first act was done in Afyonkarahisar, a police army and cafes were raided, the addresses of those sitting in cafes were taken, the GBT interrogations were conducted; the young, the students were tried to be intimidated and aligned. This was all an act to undermine the image of the Afyonkarahisar people. However, the task of executives was to bring millions of people from Afyon to the opium centre to contribute to the social, cultural, economic life of Afyon. Again, it should not be the duty of the rulers to show up at the city centre of nearly 40,000 students who have been educated at our university, to get to know Afyon (Afyon) and to open the way for Afyon (Afyon) to contribute to their social, cultural and economic life. Deputies, Afyonkarahisar, are a city of peaceful, helpful, warm and brave people. Afyonkarahisar is the city of the republic. Afyonkarahisar is the city of Ali Çetinkaya, who fired the first bullet at the enemy during the National Liberation War. On the basis of its current significance, I would also like to point out that if Ankara interferes with Kerkuk, we will be involved in Diyarbakır. The Afyon people, such as the Turkish nation, who are co-friends with Barzani, as he calls it, have noted the enthusiasm for the establishment of Kurdistan. As a militant named Shivan Perwer listened to the cry of a dying Kurdish militant, Mr. Erdoğan, who could not hold back his tears, noted that he had not shed a tear for our thousands of martyrs. He also noted the families of the martyrs who saw the blood of the 25 martyrs who died in an explosion in Opium. The day will blend in, the darkness will not go on. The opium people, like the Turkish people, are looking for a way to reach enlightenment as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0005par0048	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. The third out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu, who asked for a speech due to World Children's Rights Day. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0006par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the basis of World Children's Rights Day. I salute you all. Congressmans, no doubt nature's right to live is its right to live, which begins from the womb. From now on, a child has the right to live from the moment he's born. We, of course, think of this child as such because we see them, but we must remember that the child in the womb has the right to live. We need to keep this in mind and consciousness. So, what are we doing in Congress or in society to protect these children from health, justice, and social and psychological trauma? I believe that we've increased the quality of life for children between the age of zero and eighteen, and therefore, we've allowed these children to make the most of health benefits. Of course, that's not the end of the child's rights. Children have a right to not be workers, children have a right to go to school. Therefore, I believe that at a meeting of working children in France on the 4th day of Victim's Day -- the 4+4+4 education system in Turkey will have a huge impact on the development of vocational schools, and therefore the children's quality, not underprivileged workers -- will benefit these children greatly, and I've seen that everyone in the European Parliament, together, agrees on this issue. There's kids in prison. We never, ever want these kids to rot out there, to be held by some illegals after we get out of there. Then what do we do? Well, then let's not put these kids in jail as much as possible, but if they do, let's just stay busy with their training here. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems of child welfare today is your mother's employment. More than one financial opportunity in a family will allow these children to live without poverty in a higher level of prosperity. Women's employment in Sweden today is 77 per cent, while women's employment in Turkey is 24 per cent. Well, when we think about what a problem these women's work has, of course, we have a day care problem, and so, in all workplaces, private or public, it's one of the first conditions for this child to be treated in safe places while the mother is working. And education, good lawmakers, all of it, marriage at an early age, children under 15 years of age, brides and children living at a more prosperous level, all based on education. Thus, we need to put too much emphasis on the education of children. Today, in elementary school, the level of education has increased to 98 per cent, without leaving a boy or a girl, but we see that when it descends to the level of secondary school, it falls to 70 per cent, and even lower in girls. This will never be a party of children's rights and the work for those rights. We need to take care of these rights of the children here together, and we need to provide the children with all the help and contributions necessary for the children, like the ombudsman that appeared last year on the last day. As I finish my words here, I salute you all again, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, many of our municipalities have lost their corporate personality due to their population being below 2,000 in other provinces outside of all cities under the law on poisons released at the end of 2012. One of the 64 cities in Turkey, where the population of 2012 was over 2,000, is the Simav district of Simav, in the province of Kütahya, Turkey. Yesterday, in this town, the people wanted to stop at nothing to show their democratic response. Our cities in many parts of Turkey are in the same situation. I invite the government to stand against this injustice, and the responsibility for social outbursts that may arise will be entirely the government's. I thank you by reminding you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0007par0069	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0009par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. It's our House that needs to look after freedom the most. There's no such thing as tragedy in prisons within four walls. The right to fair, human, and legal judgment is for all; and the truth is long imprisonment, long waiting. The fact that travel indictments are still not prepared shows that they have been wrongfully held. According to the statement made in the Diyarbakır landing, the evacuation of prisons for true peace is the basis of the evacuation of prisons. We are working. You may say that the patient who is waiting for death has neither patience nor life to endure. According to Human Rights Association data, 544 heavy patients are awaiting immediate release. Lawmakers, lawyers, journalists, elected, political rights are not allowed to stay in prison, the path to peace is through freedom. That's what millions of government say to smart people, solution commissions, that's what the government wishes. If it's brotherhood, rights, law, democratic culture, don't expect it for a moment. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0010par0076	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0011par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. O AKP, what shall I tell you? You have a child named Kurdistan in Diyarbakır, and a relative named Barzani, and may your new direction be blessed. Remember, the Turkish nation has recorded this in its unwavering memory. Your mindset thinks it's politics to go arm in arm with hostile elements to the unity of the nation and the nation. And you don't get enough of that; you keep the bureaucrat who publicly insulted the citizen in the governor's office, and I leave my car in the land of the bastards. You don't mind going to the mayor's office, who defamed your own power, and you don't mind honoring him. It suits you as well, but you are not worthy of the power of the Turkish nation. There was a time when you were hoping for help with the openings from Kevin Costner of the United States, from the minds, now from Shivan, from Tatlises. Let's just say the one who falls into the sea is wrapped up in a snake. This is happening publicly and publicly. The Turkish nation will probably respond to these attacks on its honour.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0013par0085	I'm going to read you some verses of the precious MPs belong to Shivan Perwer. What about my father, what should we do? They don't want humanity, attack and hold. Break his bones, get those filthy abominations out of us. Until Kurdistan, Poor and miserable. Until he's taken prisoner, They fell asleep. They fell asleep in captivity, They're asleep, they're asleep, Some times they looked up, But the enemy cut off their heads. Let's stick together, let's move forward, Let's walk for the country, What if it's death? What about salvation? The sun rose for us, Wake up, quick as you can, It's time for war. What did Shivan Perwer do? The Prime Minister asks. What's he got to do with it? He has insulted our nation by insulting our Kurdish brothers and sisters, who have been targeting their enemies for a thousand years, using words and songs of terror and terrorists. What more can he do, Prime Minister? Wake up, or these people will wake you up.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0014par0105	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0015par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. As the CHP on Marmaray, I asked if there was any guarantee that there would be no leakage in the project, which was created by the way the tubes merged, in my speech to this day and last week, if there was a pump system to evacuate the water in case the water leaked. Aside from answering these questions, it was said that there was a leak like this on a website today. We have the alleged video footage. The northern part of Marmaray (Marmaray) is a water leak in the lower 10th segment. The other fugitive is said to be in the 13th segment of the north. Is this claim true? If the images and allegations are true, who's going to pay for this irresponsibleness when it hasn't been a month since the opening? We said the same leaks were on the Kadiköy-Cartal subway, we proved them, we showed them the footage. There are leaks in one of our newspapers today, and people are walking through those leaks. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0016par0111	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0017par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to express my condolences to the grieving family of Nejat Uygur, the theater artist who left us yesterday. Last weekend was one of the most embarrassing days in Turkish state history. An aftermergence, which counts the land of our state within its own territory, has been honored by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey as a guest of honor in Diyarbakir. I see that my dreams have come true. He has expressed his service to the Prime Minister. Tears were shed for those who shot at the Turkish state, their people, their accomplices, the singers who praised them. The separatists and the Prime Minister held hands and declared their love. That's enough! The AKP's policies clearly lead us to the abyss. First I invite the Republican prosecutors and then the AKP people, who are in love with the state and the nation, to object. When will they not object to that today? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0018par0118	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0019par0121	Mr. President, thank you. As my lawmakers spoke of yesterday, it was done yesterday in Diyarbakir yesterday... by those who ruled Turkey... by those who cursed the Turkish nation, how much they cursed the Turkish nation, how treacherous, baby killers... how they were done in Habur. While the Republic of Turkey is drawing the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the prosecutors in Turkey are waiting to process them, I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0020par0124	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0021par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, November 20th is the Day of the Children's Rights of the World. On this important day, Turkey's painting is unfortunately dark, and its report card is filled with weak ones. Children's Rights Day was celebrated, and the right to live in Uludere, Turkey, was taken away from the children's most sacred rights. Tens of thousands of children suffer poverty, tens of thousands of children are abused, tens of thousands of children are subjected to ethnic and religious discrimination. Again, tens of thousands of children are brought up to be spiteful. Tens of thousands of children are driven to crime. Children are abused by politics through children, and even grandchildren are abused and used to politics. Besides, unfortunately, the Prime Minister of this country is doing it. These are the gifts of the AKP to our children. I wish for the day when the World Day of Child Rights, November 20th, will be celebrated with honor and pride. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0022par0131	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0023par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid Heromarash is ranked last in all of our 81 counties. And so is education. The number of students who won the university is far behind in our other provinces. Now, with these classrooms closed, it appears that our student who won the university test at Kahramanmarash will almost run out. In 16 of our classrooms, 30,000 of our students are educated here. I specifically urge the government to reconsider the closing of these classrooms. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0024par0137	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0025par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, since November 20, 1940, the United Nations has been approved by 193 countries in the United Nations for the Children's Rights of the United Nations, and each November 20th is considered the Day of Children's Rights. While the world's image of children in particular in the field of labour exploitation is critical, in Turkey children are being exploited in many areas, particularly in the exploitation of labor and systematic pressure. One of the three children in Turkey cannot eat healthy food. The number of children working in the 6 to 18-year-old group is at the border of 6 million. Fifty.2% of working children cannot attend school. The number of working children is 64 per cent from 2006-2012. According to 2005, the number of imprisoned and convicted children found in prison execution institutions in 2012 increased by 42 per cent to 2,206. The report of the Council of Europe's Committee for the Protection of Torture and Evil Opposition reported systematic torture against children and prisoners in many prisons in Turkey. The number of children's brides in Turkey has exceeded 181,000. Turkey must immediately remove the rights of children to use their language and to develop their culture, especially in the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights. Children must be protected and children's prosecutors have to be functionalized. In addition, the provisions for child rights in the Constitution must be carried out immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0026par0145	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0027par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, November 14th was the anniversary of the liberation of Malkara district of Tekirdağ Province, Turkey. We couldn't attend these liberation anniversary ceremonies because of our work in the House. However, the message of the celebration that we sent to the municipality in order to read to the public about the ceremonies has not been censored by the president of Justice and Development Party (AKP) who did not understand in any way from the democracy, from the people's will. The messages of two AKP MPs of Tekirdağ Province alone have been read, and the messages of me and other Republican People's Party MPs have not been read. Regarding that, the mayor said in his statement that the messages had not been delivered, but through the subsidiary, the messages had been proven to have arrived. I want to warn the mayor from here. Participant, partyless, whoever it is, Tekirdağ MPs represent all the people of Tekirdağ, but the mayor who doesn't understand the will of this people, unfortunately has lost his ability to represent and will pay the consequences on March 30th.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0026par0150	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0028par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. In this country, the IMF, World Bank, OECD, employers' unions and AKP government co-operation and severance package are requested to be eliminated. Turkey's working class will not allow the removal of severance pay, which has been earned for years. In addition, the AKP government, which openly defies the Constitution's secularism principle, will not allow the modern-day and bright-faced men and women of this country to establish a state based on Sharia rules in all its practices. Under the co-direction of the United States -- the United States -- the United States -- of American imperialism -- the AKP, PKK, and Barzani -- they are clearly committing crimes that seek to divide the Republic of Turkey, which is a nation trying to divide the southeast of Turkey. The patriotic people of this country will break this game and will not be a tool for imperialism's policies of division and governance. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These accomplices will answer to the public when the day comes. At the same time, I ask you, when will you wake up the patriotic MPs of the AKP?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0029par0159	We're always awake, you're the one who's sleeping.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0028par0160	It's not obvious you're awake.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0030par0161	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Kayaturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0031par0164	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Nazmi Gür. After this earthquake, dear friends, within two years, the AK PARTY government offered a service that upsets the world's record of speeds. After 75,000 tents, 35,000 containers and 18,000 dwellings are finished in the city's centers, followed by nearly 10,000 dwellings in the villages. In the meantime, I understand there's some indigestion to the meeting of Diyarbakir in the executives of the entire opposition. However, it seems that we are doing the right thing here, not only is it being criticised by the opposition, but I saw in Diyarbakir that Kurds, Turks, Arabs, all the masses in tears, listening to us in tears, sharing in happiness there. I'd like to share this with you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0032par0167	Thank you, Mr Kayaturk. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0033par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkish sense of humor, the patron of the theatre, our beloved artist, Nejat Uygur, who has won everyone's love, and our idea man, our great loss, which has brought many works into our minds by his national stance, I ask Allah's mercy, and I ask his relatives to have patience. For political reasons, I propose that the architect of the Sharq issue, who pronounced part of Turkey as northern Kurdistan, should learn history and use the same language as the spokesman for the Western states, should I give him enough resources, I hope he doesn't get involved in such matters tomorrow so that he doesn't get involved in certain obligations. You know that in 1921, there was a Kocogiri rebellion. In the case of Sharq, which the West put forth, there is only Kurdistan, but there is no other way. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0034par0174	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0035par0177	Mr. President, thank you. On top of Malatya's most important water sources, such as Tohma Tea, Kozluk Tea, Sancar Creek, Nut Tea, Shiro Tea, Hush Creek, Bolt Tea, Malatian Tea, despite all the Malatians' reactions, the HES is being established, and natural life is being destroyed by subletting the rivers to private companies. The government of the AKP considers the stone, the stone, the stream's water as a source of money, but it is not considered life resources left to future generations. Finally, the operation on the Hydroelectric Plant, which was approved by the Ministry on Sultansuyu, has been accelerated and the construction plan on the plants has been suspended. Sultansuyu is one of Malatya's most important streams, both in terms of trout breeding and in terms of irrigation. HES will destroy the natural environment, especially the production of fish, and destroy the irrigation water. In front of Malatya's development, the AKP has already blocked off all of the regional directors, and we have one water left, which is not sold, and it sells. I don't want this decision to be reconsidered...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0036par0183	Thank you, Mr. Agha. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The MPs, Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food Agriculture and Animalism, are on the agenda 178, 279, 289, 290, 296, 304, 306, 321, 337, 343, 347, 353, 361, 362, 363, 376, 377, 381, 385, 387, 394, 395, 400, 408, 409, 435, 439, 489, 511, 543, 564, 564, 564, 564, 564, 364, 376, 376, 377, 377, 369, 369, 394, 394, 394, 395, 469, 439, 439, 489, 543, 543, 566, 566, 566, 564, 564, 564, 564, 569, 569, 569, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 665, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 669, 6 I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek made an official visit to Belarus on 20-21 November 2013 with a delegation of members of the Council of the Republic of Belarus President Anatoly Rubinov and Belarus House of Representatives President Vladimir Andreychenko. Accepted in combination. The 2nd Amendment. In accordance with the clause, the names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are presented to the General Assembly's information. 1) Hasan Fehmi Kinay [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Nevşehir]] 4) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Slap]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The Commission for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs has a statement concerning the return of Bill 480 to the Commission according to Article 88 of the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 88 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Interior Charter, I respectfully submit to the Commission the decision of the Ministry of Health and Connected Institutions on the agenda of the General Assembly to change certain Laws. The 480th Amendment bill has been returned to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since 2012 is the year of the International Co-operatives, we propose and propose the necessary opening of parliamentary research under the requirements of Articles 104th, 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine what needs to be done in order to promote co-optarianism, to promote, re-enlarge in place of canteens, and to establish what needs to be done in schools. Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Co-operatives are organisations based on the principles of mutual solidarity and cooperation, which are willing to work openly, voluntarily, for all people who can use their services without social, social, racial, political, and religious discrimination to solve the problems of the masses, local, cumbersome communities in economic difficulties, and who are willing to accept the responsibilities of membership. The co-operatives are being directed to recognize public social and economic problems in the educational-teacher and informative way, and to benefit from cooperatives as a way to organize them. In these schools, cooperatives were founded primarily to provide mutual aid and solidarity for students' education, education and economic needs, to teach students a common goal, to work together, to prepare them for social life, to use the tasks given to their partners, to develop their sense of responsibility, to create awareness that co-operativeism is a social and economic work, and thus to understand the importance of social development. But with neoliberal policies in the education system, the non-profit school co-opters, open to the supervision of students, teachers and parents, quickly left their seats to the school canteens, whose sole goal is to make a profit. The canteens have been known to become trade shops, especially in high-profit schools, where students are mobilised as a means of consumption. It is also known that canteens become a kind of "free trade zone" where school principals cannot enforce school rules in canteens, so there are problems between the school administration and the cafeteria managers, and that the business concerns of business concerns are the priority, not the health of students, but those signing hundreds of thousands of lira contracts. The lack of control of school canteens that directly concern our children's health and safety, the lack of education in nutrition, hygiene and food health as employees of the school canteens and staff, is one of the main problems of the canteen. For example, a study of 233 criminal cases in the school canteens in Istanbul has found that 17 of the school cafeteria employees have been convicted of "frauding, manslaughter, drug manufacturing and trafficking." One of the major problems caused by canteens is obesity. Because of commercial concerns, the school cafeterias are where a large number of sugary beverages are exhibited and bad oiled foods are sold. Many studies show that 60-85 per cent of elementary school students do not eat breakfast, they consume sandwiches, waffles, chocolates, hamburgers, and more than 50 per cent of students drink sugar contented beverages. In some counties, it is known that the canteens have removed their application and lunch at school and have been sentenced to the children's Coke-hamburger duo. In some schools, school administrators impose every method to make more money in the canteens. In Istanbul, for example, Ismail Erez Industries University has banned students from entering school during the afternoon. On this application, he decided to boycott the canteen where they found food prices steeped, set up tables to share with the food they brought from the house, but the school administration reacted strongly to this action, allowing the school principal to enter the classroom and remove the tables set up with civilian police. "We can't afford to eat in our high school for nine hours. A disciplinary investigation has also been launched against 17 students who distribute documents that say that the canteen prices are expensive," Abdülmelilik Yalçın, a student who participated in the boycott, was expelled from school. Since 2012 is the International Year of Co-operatives, it is necessary to investigate the problems caused by canteens in schools and to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to determine what needs to be done in order to establish, encourage, promote co-operativeism, promote, encourage, and revisit schools, re-enlist student health, improve student cooperation and solidarity. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for the loss of energy and consequences of the fugitives in our country and to determine the measures needed to be taken, including the legal provisions for boosting energy efficiency, we propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research as required by Articles 104, 105, and Articles 104, of the Constitution. [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] 5) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[Elizipt]] 8) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Samsun]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] It is a fundamental energy policy that energy should be offered to all consumers in a sufficient, quality, continuous, low-cost and sustainable way. Turkey can produce 9.1 per cent of its oil, 1.8 per cent of natural gas. In 2011, 44.7% of electricity production was produced from natural gas, 10% from imported coal. In 2011, 22.42 per cent of our $240.8 billion imports are energy imports of $54 billion. In our country, the ratio of energy demand to domestic production is increasing. In 2009, it dropped from 29.5 per cent to 28.5 per cent in 2010 to 27.6 per cent in 2011. In energy, external dependence risks supply security and the country's economic and industrial future. Hence, our dependency on the outside must be reduced. In Turkey, however, new energy investments have been envisioned as the only way to cover the energy deficit so far, and new investments have been applied to imported resources and fossil fuels. In this case, the release of both external and greenhouse gases has increased. Energy efficiency is one of the most important ways to reduce external dependence in energy. With the reduction of production, transmission and loss in use, it is possible to meet much of the additional demand for a short period of time without additional energy supply. As a result of studies on energy efficiency, 58 billion kw/s of energy efficiency in the building sector, 30 per cent in the industrial sector, 20 per cent in the industry and 15 per cent in the transport sector can contribute 19 billion kw/s of electricity by rehabilitation of plants. As a result of aging, the efficiency of thermal power plants is falling. The efficiency of other plants in our country, except for the hydropower plants that have been built in recent years, has dropped by 80 per cent. The rehabilitation of hydraulic plants will result in 615 million kwh a year. The loss of grid at the level of transmission and distribution tension increased from 2.1 per cent in 2009 to 3 per cent in 2010. The missing-and-missing rate of the distribution system was reduced to 15.6 per cent in 2009, but it was not successful. The total cost of transmission and distribution in 2009 is 14.5 per cent of electricity offered to consumption. In Germany and Japan, 5 per cent is 7 per cent in the United States. Industrial and COBIs have considerable energy efficiency potential. 26.6 per cent of the primary energy consumed in Turkey in 2010 is consumed in the dwellings. The lack of insulation caused by 43.3% of Turkey's population insulation gives an opinion on the potential for saving buildings with heat insulation. In addition, the amount of consumption shows the importance of electrical household appliances in energy efficiency studies. In EU countries, electric household appliances, electric household appliances must have labels that indicate energy consumption. The Energy Efficiency Act aims to promote energy efficiency practices in building and industrial sectors, but has failed to achieve significant success in this area. For the energy demand to be reduced in a concrete way, more effective strategies for energy efficiency should be developed, considering our country's economic conditions, cultural levels and habits. The Department of Electrical Affairs, which had a significant role in the editing of the Energy Efficiency Act, has been established in 1935, and has become a key institution with its savings, and has been closed on 2 November 2011 by the Constitution 662 and its staff have been distributed to various public institutions and its institutional memory has been destroyed. The mandate of the Renewable Energy General Directorate, established in its place, stands in the way of more effective energy efficiency work. The closure of the Electrical Affairs Department is an indication that energy efficiency is not as important to the AKP government as it should be and is not adopted as a policy on energy planning. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the employment problems of our disabled citizens and to address them, including legal regulations, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under the Articles 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution. 17/04/2012 [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] 4) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[Elizipt]] 7) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Samsun]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Antalya]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mughle]] In 2002, the National Statistical Institute established "Turkey Retarded Research 2002" and the digital status of the disabled in our country. According to the results of the study, 8,431,937 people live in our country as disabled people. The ratio of this to the general population is 12.29 per cent. 36.34 per cent of disabled people are illiterate, 77.81 per cent are non-employee. All services related to disabled persons, all concerned institutions and organisations have not been possible until now by co-operation and co-ordination with common plans and programmes, and by promoting national policies. In our country, many institutions and institutions do not look at disability as a whole and rehabilitation services as a whole, causing various and disorganized legislation, complexity in services and disconnection, and lack of surveillance, which also leads to task and authority. Social care services for disabled people in our country are extremely inadequate. The application of the disabled in need of care is required by several separate institutions. There are not enough vocational rehabilitation centres in our country to contribute to production by providing a profession for disabled people. The service cannot be achieved because of the admission of disabled members of various apology groups into the same vocational rehabilitation programme. The state is obliged to create jobs for which all its citizens can earn enough income to sustain their lives. This obligation also applies to disabled persons. In our country, employment policies for disabled people are largely based on the technique of ▪kota. The 30th article of Job Law 4857 stipulates that private sectors work for 50 or more workers should be run by 3 per cent and 4 per cent disabled in public workplaces. According to Article 53 of the 657 DMK, it is 3 per cent. According to data from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security on November 25, 2011, the public has an open-impaired employee quota of 995 and an open-impaired officer's quota of 23.360. In the private sector, there are 22,600 people in open-impaired workers. This data shows that the quota system does not contribute to the participation of disabled people in the labour market, employment, work peace and business relations. Article 14 of the 5378 Law was adopted on May 30, 2006. In this regulation, there is no disclosure on how and how to provide technical assistance and financial support for the state, but there is no ruling to encourage the establishment of such businesses, which require major investments. According to Article 5378's interim Article 2 of Law No. 5378, the area and structures owned by public institutions and institutions and structures and structures made by real and legal individuals must be put into place within seven years of the accessibility of the disabled within 1/7/2005, the date when this law was enforced. In Article 3 of the law, "The public transport services are accessible to the disabled within seven years of 1/7/2005, which is the date of the law to be accessible to the disabled." The sentence is in place. Since this law has been adopted, there has been no study of how much of the issues mentioned in the law have been implemented. Despite the fact that the law states who will do the issues mentioned by, how to do these services, what resources will finance them, and which institution will provide control and control for them. It is not only the duty of the modern government to improve and oversee the rights of disabled individuals. At the same time, the state has to ensure that the disabled develop in line with their abilities and potential, that they have equal opportunities, that they have economic and social well-being. However, about 8.5 million disabled citizens in Turkey have had dozens of problems in every area from education to health, employment to transportation. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. I will have it read and processed and then submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (November 19th 2013), I would like to propose the following proposal of our group to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On 29 May 2013, İstanbul MP Durmis Ali Torlak and his friends, who we gave the presidency of TBM with 2013/13679, were proposed to conduct their talks on Tuesday (November 19th 2013), reading the General Assembly (now) on Tuesday (November 2013), in order to investigate the security weaknesses of our borders of Syria, Iraq and Iran, and to determine the measures and solutions that need to be taken. In his favor, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0037par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have never been subjected to so much insult since the day our country was founded. Turkish history has never been so betrayed. The Turkish nation has never witnessed such an alliance of evil fronts inside and out. Mr. President-General expressed in today's group speech: Turkey has been humiliated as never before on November 16th, Turkish nation has witnessed the official parade of treason, its lives and photos of the Prime Minister have been attached to the same banner, the bones of the martyr and the suspect have been broken. Dear lawmakers, indeed, Turkey has been attacked by more separatists than ever before, like an alliance of enemies inside and outside, as if it were a front of evil. What they couldn't get signed by Sevr as a result of the attack of the seven heifers, you, unfortunately, give to the terrorists as AKP power by drum, by zurna. Barzani, who shows the Turkish lands in his map, is a union of Kurds. After he said, he advised the Kurds to be patient, and I couldn't believe I'd be greeted with the flag of Kurdistan in Diyarbakir. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, is it your duty to fulfill the dream of these separatist heads, these separatists, or to turn the dream of those who have eyes on the land into nightmares? You, unfortunately, have not made the dreams of these separatists a nightmare, you turn the night and day of the Turkish nation into nightmares. You put these snakes into the bosom of the Turkish nation with your own hands, instead of crushing the heads of snakes that have been haunted by the Turkish nation. Those who are afraid of words, of concepts, of taboos, of their own inventions, of nightmares, can't build great states, says Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, you are the worst nightmare this country has ever had! I'm afraid there's no greater nightmare in this country than you. The band of separatists, led by the Prime Minister, continues to add new bandmates to the choir. Those who blaspheme to Turkey at every turn, who call the Imran villain the freedom fighter, who call Turkey the terrorist, who insult Turkish language, have taken their place in the Prime Minister's separatist choir. Now, I ask you from here: A governor you appointed says to the citizens of this country, to our citizens -- I beg your pardon -- you return and defend him. The mayor says it's the branches of the oak, so you go out hand in hand. The other is a freedom fighter who kills babies. He says, "The terrorist state says Turkey, and you invite him to duet." It's important to ask those who give rewards to those who say this country is the country of the bastards: What has this country done to you? Why are those who insult this country and insult this nation always in good places in your eyes? You're giving awards, you're having them around the necks, you're having them over with drums and drums, you're doing duets, you're insulting this nation in front of the Turkish nation. You have to answer to this nation. Dear MPs, at today's group meeting, Mr. Prime Minister says that when he comes to think of it, he mentions the name of Chief Turkesh again, and today he is also a separatist? But what you don't understand is that the problem between the Turkish nationalists and the Turkish nationalists is not with our Kurdish brothers; our problem is that they are the separatists that you feed and support, and the opponents of Turkey, the separatists of the Turkish nation, will continue to be separatists, despite you, and those who are behind the separatists will continue to be enemies of the Turkish nation. One can go out in Diyarbakır and use the expression Northern Kurdistan, which unfortunately can be called Prime Minister at this time. Mr. Prime Minister is saying today: "We have called it the only country in Diyarbakır." I wonder, Mr. Prime Minister, is this really what you call "the only homeland" that you're trying to build and raise by your own hand? You need to answer that to the Turkish nation. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I would like to remind the AKP ministers and lawmakers that you have not come here with votes of the places you refer to as Northern Kurdistan, but with the votes of our people living in our Southeast Anatolian region. By means of terrorists, you mean that prisons will be empty. Remember, the terrorists who were in those prisons are in prison because they killed Mehmetçik. So, if you're going to get the terrorist out of prison, where will you put Mehmetchik's martyr mother? You need to answer that, too. When Mr. Prime Minister said, "We didn't believe it." When he said, "The Diyarbakir is going to be the shining star of BOP." We didn't believe that even he would go this far, but unfortunately the Prime Minister's word stands. He's a prime minister of his word, he does everything he says; he continues to make Diyarbakir be the star of BOP. He keeps releasing the terrorists one by one. AKP officials, you have forgotten justice and development, brought together betrayal and disgrace. This has been seen clearly lately. We're going to bring the terrorist down from the mountain to the plain. You said, "You didn't take the terrorist from the mountain to the plain, you put these terrorists in charge of the Turkish nation." But remember, the Turkish nation will know that this terrorist, and that terrorist you've put on his head, and that he's his accomplice, and he'll know that he can take you from the top, and he'll know it.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0038par0378	Speak with respect, speak with caution!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0039par0379	Did it sink or did it sink? Did he touch it?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0037par0380	What did the AKP do during this period? He greeted the terrorists with drums; it was not enough, your government hosted song and song in Diyarbakır. In your congress, Turkey is proud of you. You welcomed Barzani, who you call Barzani, as a head of state in Diyarbakır, and this Diyarbakır is not a city of Turkey and it is as if the Prime Minister had been there. The Turkish people will pay for this. During your time, PKK sympathizers now began building museum houses for alleged martyrs, terrorists killed in places where PKK members had killed Mehmetçik. To sum it up: you give pensions, laborers, civil servants, so to speak, tickles, ceremonies, but when it comes to terrorists, separatists, barzanis, baby killers, sobs, drums, and zurna, in the mood of a festival. So far, the imaginary Kurdistan on your global collaborators' map, unfortunately, has begun to become real in your power, and everything written in the report "Consul of the Turkish and Iraqi Kurds Trust" is being carried out step by step by step by hand in the report of global forces. For a time, you were doing PR work for the baby killer, and now you're doing the same work for Barzani, and for how many days, as if someone from space was going to come to this country, as if it wasn't the place where those who spilled the blood of Mehmetchik were hiding in this country until yesterday, as if they had no eyes in this country, as if they didn't show the land of this country in a map of their territory, as if you were hosting a great person in the region. Dear lawmakers, you're dealing with what you call homes with boys and girls, and you've become the most popular guests in the homes of blood-stab terrorists. If you had fought against those in this country who had eyes for this country as much as you did with the young people, the terrorists, you can be sure that today there were no terrorists or terrorists. Dear MPs, of course, our hearts are burning about this, the hearts of the Turkish nation are burning about it. There's a lot to be said for this, but I want you to know... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...neither will forgive you nor will the Turkish nation forgive you, and the Turkish nation will ask for your betrayal as soon as possible. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0040par0390	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Against him, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0041par0394	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we have repeatedly spoken about Turkey's foreign policy from this bench, and we have repeatedly warned you about how wrong Syrian policy is. But unfortunately, as all the motions we've submitted before have been rejected today, I think it will again be rejected by the ruling vote. So what's being voted on in Syria, why are we against Syrian policy, why do we insist on giving parliamentary research motions or supporting the motions on this issue, and over and over and over again we've explained from this platform, we've expressed our views. Now, the Republic of Turkey, just a few years ago, from the mouth of the current Foreign Minister and from the mouth of the Prime Minister, here we are at zero trouble with our neighbors, we are on a very good, very right path with everyone. It was said that with Syria, Iraq, Greece, Bulgaria, Georgia, even with Armenia, dialogue with Iran had reached the highest level and that the existing -- such as the opening of the Armenian border crossing -- would be resolved very quickly, and would be resolved very quickly. Now, we've come from zero problems to a point where we've all come to the point of trouble. And when we say that, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and our friends in power are angry at us. The last time Mr. Prime Minister came to Diyarbakır, we were sitting at the same table, side by side with the Foreign Minister; for about an hour, we were able to have a conversation during that meal. I also told Mr. Foreign Minister: "Look, from Muktida Al Sadr to Al Nusra representatives, anyone can see you in the Middle East." I was at Ankara last month, I was at dinner with Mr. Davutoglu, I was at the minister's house with Mr. Prime Minister, and so on. I mean, you're good with everyone, with the neighbor, but he's going to discuss these matters with your brother in the house for ten minutes; let alone the negotiation and the debate, at least if you don't have a perspective to listen to this brother, where can you get to? Now, when we look at the painting that we've come from, from Iran to the administration of Nuri El Maliki in Baghdad, from the dictator in Damascus to Bulgaria, the problems with all sides have reached the highest stage. My parents wanted to appoint a prime minister to Iraq, again, from covered funds, other studies. Behold, the prime minister, Tarek Hashimi, who wanted to be made prime minister, cannot go to Baghdad today; he is tried for execution and sentenced to death. The Syrian government -- which is today called a bloodier dictator than his father -- held joint cabinet meetings with the Baas Party in Aleppo. He came to Beypazarı, and the lady of our protocol, our First Lady, and our Prime Minister's honourable wife and the wife of this dictator, have opened up bases together. In the same way, the commercial relations... the projects, the canals, the pipes, the pipes to be taken under the Mediterranean, will be finished today, tomorrow. So, what happened? Now, we're here, classic, you know, you're doing it all wrong, you know, you're not doing anything right, you know, this, I don't know, we don't want to go into a polemic like this because we can't get anything out of these polemics, and we can't. So, what do we do? We say: When my brother... Mr. Prime Minister came to Diyarbakır to visit the Metropolitan Municipality, he said: "The state of our problems is Parliament." In Ankara, if we can't talk about it, if we can't solve it, we can't solve it anywhere. E, well, let's talk; here, let's discuss Turkey's foreign policy here; let's discuss it here; let's get the Minister and the Prime Minister -- whoever's interested -- let's all come forward, let's talk about it, let's talk about it, let's talk about it, let's talk about it, let's talk about each other. Otherwise, there's no place for us to go when we're fighting each other all the time, like a boatman fighting each other, and we're not gonna get any results. But it's a good thing that we've learned so far from the press that we can't even learn a quarter of what we've learned from the websites, and we can't even learn anything from the lobby in this Parliament. So, what are we getting at? I mean, what's the solution? Well, let's go out, here, defame each other, swear at each other. I, for example, asked the Minister of Energy, again with the official question: "Today, oil is coming from the Iraqi Kurdistan regional administration to Turkey, and there's a shipment, and the Baghdad government opposes it -- here, according to international agreements -- why does it do it, how does it do it, how does it go, how much is it sold?" Should we go ask the CIA or the British intelligence? I mean, the whole world knows, you're supposed to be the legislators in your own Parliament, the so-called, the top public officials, you don't know about this. Now, don't all these intelligence agencies know how much this oil came for, how much it was bought for, how much it was sold for? They all know. Let them all know, but you don't know. So, how do we solve it? What's right, what's wrong, what needs to be done? For example, one of the opposition to the conflicting regime in Aleppo is brought in wounded and lost his life. Well, well, you're... you're also saying that I had nothing to do with anything. I don't give weapons, I don't give ammunition, I don't give money, I don't have that kind of work. Here, my dear friends, if you'll pay attention, I'm using as careful language as possible, so I'm trying to eat grapes, beat up the farmer, or we're not gonna get anywhere by beating each other. But, here, come, let us speak, and tell us: What are you doing in Syria now? What are you doing in Iraq, what are you doing with Maliki? What are you doing with the Kurdistan regional administration, Mr. Barzani? What are you doing with Iran? For example, you brought missiles against Iran, you put missiles in Malatya, and then you said: "We did not resist Iran, we did not resist it, we did not resist it. Or why didn't you take these missiles and put them in Kütahya, Çanrı, Çorum, and Tokat? I mean, so, today, it's literally a tawdryness like this, and on the other hand, I did it, and after a while, I did it, so let's just rephrase it, for example, right now, dialogues with Nuri Maliki have started again, so there's trying to retry different relationships with the Syrian administration, and there's nothing coming out of here, and there's something more dangerous going on right now. Today in Rojava, Syria Kurdistan, the Kurds are trying to form a order of their own; there is no authority of the regime; there are different armed elements; they are trying to form a order there; they are trying to form a government, along with the Arabs, the Suryanians, and all the other living elements; you say, "This is my red line, and I don't accept it." Well, until yesterday, you didn't accept the Kurdistan regional leadership, and you didn't take that name into your mouth. As a matter of fact, the Prime Minister took that name into his mouth. The governor of Diyarbakır said he still won't say a word at dinner in front of the Prime Minister. For him, dear friends, these need to be discussed properly. Tell me why you're walling the Syrian border. I thought you were gonna move the mines. What happened? Nobody knows that either. For him, dear friends, this Parliament must take over immediately, where they must be discussed with all its dimensions, and there must be a solution. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0042par0407	Thank you, Mr. Tan. In his favor, Ghaziantep MP Mehmet Candy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0043par0411	Mr. President, my fellow MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in favour of investigating the security weaknesses of the National Movement Party in Syria, Iraq and Iran and investigating the measures taken. Dear friends, I, the MP of Gaziantep, live in Gaziantep, the region where the Syrian problem is most common. For the first time, I submitted a parliamentary motion to investigate the impact of Syrian policy on our country's economy on 10/12/2011. In fact, then, the Gaziantep trader, the factory owners who invested there, went through a lot of trouble; they left their factories, shut down their business. Our friends, who opened a hotel and opened a business, were also severely victimised by the Syrian people coming to Gaziantep to shop. Unfortunately, this motion I made at 10/12/2011 on that day was not accepted in the Parliament. On January 2, 2012, again, this time I did a study on building a container city and brought it up. In the church, at the Pioneer Border Gate, the government decided to build a container city at zero point on the border, and on that day we said, "This is very dangerous. Zero point of the border, people go across very easily, they cross here, they get hurt, they clash. It won't be good for Turkey. I'm afraid we haven't been able to comply. That was the Van earthquake. When our friends in the van, the earthquake victims, couldn't even afford to live in a tent, for refugees from Syria who would come from Syria -- like, if they had a time-share system or early vacation reservations -- before the refugee arrived from Syria, we built a container city there at the Pioneer Border Gate, and we brought it up. On January 12, 2012, I told you about this bench again: A truck was captured a year ago at the Pioneer Border Gate, and on January 12, 2012, a truck containing weapons was seized with chemical materials, weapons, and ammunition used to make bombs. We asked: "Where do they come from, where do they come from and who organizes them?" replied the Ministry of Interior: "We estimate that they pass through the Gurbullic Border Gate." We pass 10 provinces, and unfortunately we can't find and we don't know, and a customs guard in charge of border security catches this by accident. It's being applied to the Army Command, and the Army Command says, "Yes, these are materials used to make bombs and we destroyed them." Again, we can't get a serious answer. And after bringing all this up, a bomb went off on August 20, 2012, near the police station in the Martyrkamil Köyaka neighborhood of Gaziantep. Ten of our citizens were killed by an explosion in the vehicle. We ran, we did what we needed to do, and we warned the authorities: Dear friends, please be careful. Look, this bomb could go off in Hatay, it could go off somewhere else. This time, some of our fellow lawmakers from the ruling party said, "Do the Republican People's Party know where this bomb is going to go off?" The bomb is caught at the border, the trucks with bombs are caught, you don't know how they got to the border, you don't know who took them, you don't know who took them, the bomb goes off in front of the police station, 10 people lose their lives, and if you don't know about it, you might not know that they're going to go off in Hatay. And as a matter of fact, on February 11, 2013, Cilve-Eye exploded at the Border Gate, 13 people lost their lives. On May 11, 2013, a bomb-loaded vehicle exploded in Reyhanlı, killing 53 of our citizens. It's all because of our mistakes in Syrian policy, we've supported someone. That's not what I'm saying, that's what all the press-release organizations in the world are saying, that's what they're saying. The wounded come to the church and to Gaziantep. The wounded are the ones who stayed at camp, the ones whose address is camp, the people who were injured, the gunshot wounds. The man in the camp can cut off his hand with a knife, fall down, break his leg, but a man in the camp can't get hurt by a gunshot wound. What did we do? They went that way, they fought, they came in wounded after the shooting, and they went in and out of these camps very comfortably. So we said, again, on January 31, 2013, in the house the Syrians rented, we brought it up -- a bomb went off in our neighborhood, and one person died as a result of the bomb explosion. One of the wounded was a student who was taken from Syria to the University of Gaziantep to make a statement. Four more rocket launchers were caught inside. But didn't Turkey's intelligence organization, the police, know about this? We brought it all up, unfortunately, we couldn't get it to listen. I made another point -- because I'm a doctor -- and that's when I talked to the Minister of Health, and I said, "We don't have this border security. People walk by, and it's not clear how these people came. The current government in Syria does not vaccinate, children without vaccines, we bring them up on this bench to be cared about infectious diseases, and they haven't been heard again. The date I brought this up was March 6, 2013, and Turkey started giving measles vaccines in nine counties today. There have been cases of measles that haven't been seen in this country in 15 years. In 15 years, the most recent case of the case of the case, the case of polio, has begun to appear in our country. So, dear friends, does the opposition say everything wrong? Please listen to what we're saying, we've got a little head, we've got eyes, we're following what's happening. When we tell you these suggestions, we say them for our country. We know that children were not vaccinated in Syria. They're coming across the border to our country, and we've always said they could carry these diseases very easily, but unfortunately we couldn't. Today we are going to have to inoculate all of Turkey, and the reason is that the diseases that we've cured have come back to life. Again, I brought it up here on March 28, 2013. A Gaziantep citizen called me, and he went to Syria to fight, and he went to fight, and they took my child, and he didn't have a passport, and he said, "Stop this. We looked into it, there are 13 of them from Gaziantep, and there are people who have lost their lives. Many have called me from Tripoli, and from Bingol. So, how did these kids get there? Who took him? Today we're following from the press, the Syrian government is attempting to help terrorists in the United Nations. Where do they leave from? Based on the testimony of those who surrendered, who were caught in Damascus, and in Aleppo. They describe what they came with, what city they flew into, what city they landed in Turkey, how they crossed the border, what weapons they bought from them. So, unfortunately, Turkey is being humiliated all over the world because of this Syrian policy and our foreign policy, dear friends. Again, another problem is smuggling because there's no border security. Animal trafficking, human trafficking, heroin smuggling, arms smuggling, anything you can think of, smuggling in this area. Organ trafficking, dear friends. Our friends at the police station know about organ trafficking because the AFAD says that there are how many people from Syria there are, say, 200,000 people. With those who remain in the camps, unfortunately, there are only 200,000 in Gaziantep. So here we have an open door, an open door to any kind of abuse, a limit, I'm afraid. Dear friends, after all we've said, there's been a wall set up somewhere to secure the border, and a channel is being opened elsewhere, but unfortunately we know that the border's not going to be secure like this, and that's not how it's going to be. Of course, this motion and what we have here will be rejected shortly. We're just saying this so it'll go down in history. I've told you all of this from this council bench, none of which has been taken into account, and none of which will be taken after that, but unfortunately, the plague of those who died there, the people who died there, the people who died in the bomb blast will be on our necks, the members of this House. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0044par0427	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Against him, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0045par0431	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to the Parliament to investigate and determine the security weaknesses of the National Movement Party Group on our borders with Syria, Iraq and Iran, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Parliament of Turkey, in order to determine the measures and solutions that need to be taken. I salute you all. Dear MPs, the total land border of the Republic of Turkey is 2,949km and the length of the sea border is 8.333km. It is the responsibility of protecting land borders and the responsibility of protecting naval borders to the Army Command and the Coast Guard Command. The protection of our land borders is provided by 51,107 personnel at 317 border outposts except for reinforcements. In connection with border security, other than the Army Command and Coast Guard Command, the General Command of the Armed Forces is also responsible for the General Directorate of Security and the General Directorate of Customs. In our country, the border security of our land has been largely bordered by the Army Command for years. As it is known, the terrorist organization had taken important positions in the border areas of Haqkari and Şırnak, as part of the district of the Gendarme Assembly. Border security was largely provided by the gendarmes in the mountain area, where PKK's entry and exit routes were routed from Iraq to Turkey. Congressmans, we need to address the Syrian issue in particular regarding border security. The clashes that began in March 2011 in Syria continue after the Esed regime used violence to respond to public protests. This civil war in the region, no doubt, has affected our country, which has a border of about a 911 mile [9 km] with Syria. There are ties of kinship between Syria and our citizens and border violations for humanitarian reasons. The Hatay Yayladaka, Şanlıurfa Ceylanpınar and Mürshitpınar, Mardin Nusaybin border crossings are closed, while Hatay Cilvebözü, Gaziantep Karkamiş, Kilis Öncınar and Şanlıurfa Akçakale are open. Terrorist organisations who know the opportunity for confusions in Syria have weighed in on their activities here. Fighting against our borders with groups who want to benefit from a lack of authority on the Syrian side is being carried out decisively. As part of increasing security measures, we have heavily developed cameras and military installations in our borders, and many have been reinforced. Dear lawmakers, in order to prevent acts of terrorism and smuggling, I would also like to talk about projects aimed at protecting borders and strengthening measures. The project, which is also part of our party's 63-point road map, continues efficiently to implement the integrated border management. For this project, the Office of Border Management has been assigned to our Ministry of Interior. Integrated border management is very important for our country's border and internal security. Although co-operation and co-direction between institutions serving as border management in Turkey are actually available, the scope must be expanded and discussed within the framework of the concept of integrated border management. Actions within the institution and international co-operation are not sufficient. Dear members, the Law on the Protection and Security of the Black Borders and security of land borders have been assigned to the Army Command, but all security issues and internal security of illegal crossings are also relevant to our interior ministry. With the Integrated Border Management Project, our borders will be at a state-of-the-art level protected by European Union standards. The project plans to build strong physical barriers to borders. As in some European countries, the risky areas are also considered to be sprinkled with phosphorous soft soil and to form trail fields on borders. At the end of the project, a structure that will allow for a faster and more effective service to be carried out in order to overcome the current issues related to border management will eventually be established where a single institution of civil authority will be in charge. In this framework, it will be possible to establish a new border security unit in the Ministry of Interior as a uniformed, armed and professional law enforcement unit to ensure the protection of Turkey's land borders and all shores and the control of land, sea, air border crossings, and to provide a more efficient and quality service of border security, and to ensure the maximum use of available resources. So, with the integrated border management system, the borders will be managed one-on-one. The responsibility for the borders of 13 different institutions, such as police, customs, military institutions, will be transferred to the head of the new border security agency. The head of the agency will be in the Ministry of Interior, law enforcement on the border, but this law enforcement will not be tied to the Police Department. Police, gendarmes, Turkish Armed Forces and Coast Guard personnel will be able to move to the head of the border security agency, which will be assigned to border police status. Dear friends, Turkey's borders are intended to be fully revised and to be restored to a fully equipped security system in terms of its physical security system. New physical barriers to border security are also considered to be first built on the Syrian border. Our Home Office continues to make the necessary supply purchases, providing thermal cameras, radars, night vision devices, sensors, air and patrol vehicles to the borders. On the other hand, investments in border illumination -- an important element of border security with the Electric Market Law -- have been assigned to the Interior Ministry to pay for consumption costs. The necessary coordination has been conducted. Apart from this project, the Interior Ministry's Border Enlightenment Project and Repair and Maintenance Project is under way, and Turkey's Border Observation Capacity and Mine Cleaning Project and Integrated Border Management System Projects are under way. Border security projects conducted in the area include efforts to strengthen physical and technicality by Hatay, Kilis, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Mardin and Şırnak Governorate. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it turns out, the fight against terrorist organizations, smugglers and groups who want to take advantage of the power vacuum in our neighbours is being carried out decisively. Our border security is also strengthened by new projects. We do not participate in the parliamentary investigation of the National Movement Party for the purpose of investigating the security weaknesses of our borders with Syria, Iraq and Iran, and to determine the measures and solutions that need to be taken, I respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit01spe0046par0443	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 18th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 19/11/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The meeting of the Council of Turkey's Parliament's main parliamentary survey proposal (10/628) for the meeting of the General Assembly's 19/11/2013 Tuesday (today) jointly (today) of the General Assembly's 19/11/2013, which is intended to be carried out by investigating the issues of labour health and safety, which are part of the parliamentary body's agenda. In favor of the proposal, Aydın MP Bulent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0047par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'd like to open a parliamentary investigation into business accidents, work safety measures. Of course, in Turkey's very intense agenda that we've been discussing recently, it may be possible that where did this come from? But let's not forget that during a period of time when business accidents are no longer an occupational accident but a business murder, organized work has been destroyed and subcontracted systematically, we have an obligation to re-remember these issues over and over again. Dear friends, Turkey is the third-largest country in the world in business accidents. In Europe, we are number 1st in business accidents, and since 2002, in Turkey, the total number of workers lost in business accidents has been 2,688. So on average, we lose 1,000 to 1,200 workers a year in work accidents. Now, after this stage, it's not right to call this process a work accident. Congressmans, in Turkey, at this point, we are now directly opposed to business killings. Look, in 2013, until November 18th, the number of workers we've lost in these job murders is 1,050. This year alone, we've sacrificed 1,050 of our workers to the work killings. Dear friends, let's refresh our memory. Look, the workers we had, the ones we lost in those job killings, let's see what accidents they were killed in: Zonguldak died in the explosion of 30 workers' gray in 2010. Adana-Kozan died in 2012 in construction of the 10 workers' bridge dam. In 2012, five TEDAS workers drowned in the pond, lost their lives, and perhaps one of the most painful, 11 workers died in the fire, in 2012, in Istanbul's Esenyurt. Dear lawmakers, there are two main reasons for business accidents to reach the level of work murder. These two main reasons, unfortunately, are the product of ten years, eleven years of AKP power, which is the product of power, the level of murder of business accidents within 11 years. What are the two reasons? One, unorganized labor; the first main reason is that unorganized labor conditions were created. The second main reason is that subcontractor work, subcontractor work, is systematically installed. The AKP's power is the cause of these two problems in the world of labor. Since 2002, according to OECD reports, Turkey is the country with the highest non-union rate. Again, in a country where 13 million 306,000 workers work, 567 thousand workers are able to work on the right of collective agreements. Dear friends, it is not possible for a worker, a worker, to lead an honorable life in a place where unorganized labor prevails. Unfortunately, it is not possible to prevent and prevent work killings in a country where union organization is destroyed directly or controlled by the authorities. Another fundamental problem is the process of subcontractorization. Eleven years of AKP power has demonstrated a practice that abandons the secure working system and systematically makes subcontractor work in all service areas and in the public area. The number of subcontractors, 350,000, has now reached 1,750,000 subcontractors in 2002, unfortunately today. Under the circumstances, it is one of the main tasks of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to discuss, discuss and work on the measures necessary to prevent job killings. We've made a motion to investigate. Dear friends, look, we know this very well: We see directly from the statements of the prime minister and ministers, of the ministers of power, how a worker and employee is looked at in the established understanding of the AKP. What was he saying, Mr. Prime Minister? Where the head of the feet is, there will be an apocalypse. We will not give you the right to be the head of a country where a sense of power is not going to be able to prevent work killings. What was he saying, Prime Minister? The miners were destined to die. Sadly, it will not be possible for a ruling who considers death to be the fate of the worker in unsecured working conditions to wait for safety measures, to understand, to wait for a secure working environment. For him, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must handle this problem. Dear friends, we know how to look at working life. Mr. Faruk Çelik, the Minister of Labor, said that a family can live on the Asgarian salary. Minimum wage is 800 lira. In a country with a hunger limit of $1.062, you can get by on this with families you need to work under the hunger limit. Turkey faces a power that says, "You can live on it." Dear friends, we live in Turkey, where the youth unemployment rate is 20 per cent, and in Turkey, where job killings are established and common, we are now faced with a power in Turkey, which is trying to eliminate severance with the power hand, and the last worker's right to seniority, which has been going on for years. Against that, against all these attacks against labour, there's only one thing workers have to do in Turkey against organized working enemies; they face the task of fighting organised labor against them. Dear friends, we're looking at Turkey's agenda, which is very interesting, not these attacks against Turkey's agenda in a painting like this. What's the agenda? Back in the last 15 days, look, it's Kurdistan or the turban. Turkey has nothing else to worry about, Turkey has nothing else to talk about? Dear friends, does death discriminate when 1,000 workers die every year in work killings? In the eyes of death, is there a distinction between Kurd, Turk, Laz. Is there a distinction between the head open and the head closed in front of death? Don't they all die in the same flu? Aren't they burning in the same workhouse? Aren't they falling apart in the same poverty? Creaters of such a Turkey are now trying to determine Turkey's agenda from Diyarbakır. (Applause from CHP rows) They are seeking to create a Turkey agenda from Diyarbakır. Dear friends, look, the Prime Minister came out in the Diyarbakır speech and said: "The map of the region has been drawn wrong." Now, I ask the Prime Minister: Does this map include the map of Misakimillil? Does it include the map of the Republic of Turkey? We're talking to BOP's theorists in the area... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...doing the flagship of drawing a new map is appropriate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey? I'm saying it doesn't suit you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0048par0033	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Against you, Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Runar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0049par0037	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, the issue of occupational health and safety is a very important issue not only at the workplace and at the employee level, but also at the national and international level. Turkey has approved its 155th Convention on occupational health and safety of the International Labour Organization with Article 5038, as well as the International Charter on Business Health Services 161, with the Law No. 5039. The 155 contract emphasises that the contract will apply to all economic activities, including all employees, including public services, and that the term "economic activities" in Article 161 should be taken into account for the continued development of occupational health care services for all businesses and all employees. No doubt working in a healthy and safe environment is one of the most basic human rights for all of our employees. Human and economic losses due to problems related to the failure of occupational health and safety are undoubtedly negative to all countries. Therefore, taking measures to promote employees' life levels, employment, human work, and efficient work, and peace of work are among the priorities of our government. In the 61st Government Programme, which is based on economic development, which is based on human development, the 61st government programme, which is prepared by our government at this point, emphasises the protection of people, not work, and some of the important issues in working life, in which activities for the spread of business health and safety culture and the awareness of employers can be maintained, and for our employers who take job health and safety measures and non-registered workers, these are the ones that will be made and rewarded. Dear friends, the issue of occupational health and safety is a very important issue in both Turkey and the world. There is a claim in Turkey that there are not sufficient measures for business health and safety, that the number of business accidents has increased in Turkey, and that Turkey's record has been broken in this sense, especially by our opposition party parliamentary friends. First, it's useful to make this healthy assessment: Turkey received a law legalized in June last year in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and for the first time, it had a separate Business Health and Safety Act. None of the workplaces that employ under 50 workers in Turkey's working life before the Health and Safety Act were covered by occupational health and safety. When we look at the workplaces that employ under 50 people in Turkey, we find that around 1,507,000 employees are below 50, which is about 56 per cent of the total employment. In Turkey, along with the Employment Health and Safety Act issued last year, all employees are obliged to be under the umbrella of occupational health and safety of all employees, including officers who work at all workplaces without restrictions, and all employers are obliged to take the work health and safety measures necessary for employees to work at a safe workplace. Again, in this sense, you may especially appreciate that in the workplaces that employ less than 10 workers, it has also been a crucial relief to those who employ workers in this legal arrangement, to not bring new financial burdens to their workplaces because of their health and safety measures. The most important revolution brought by the Law on Health and Safety is no doubt the legal arrangement for risk assessment.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0050par0042	Does it stop workers from dying?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0049par0043	It is no longer possible for Turkey to engage in any activity in Turkey without a risk assessment of any workplace, without employing a business health and safety expert, without service from joint social security centers. When you look at the last year and a half of data in Turkey, we also have the opportunity to see that this law on occupational health and safety and the practices behind it are seriously reflected in the field. Dear friends, of course, the legal arrangement is not a sufficient factor in the final outcome of business health and safety. First of all, it's very important to develop a sense of security in the community and to develop awareness of business security in the community, especially in the community. In the last year and a half, our Ministry of Labor has held some very important training meetings in that sense, following the legal arrangement. In the last year and a half, there have been official articles written at the point of what new legal regulations have brought to the workplace in this sense and what needs to be done about it. 34 regulations and 5 notifications of the application were published in the Official Gazette. At the point of occupational health and safety, about 30,000 employers and representatives working in the workplace have been informed at the point of occupational safety. Where did all this work come from? As of this point, Turkey has now become a country in 2002, where 100,000 employees have been seriously reduced by business accidents, and at the point of fatal business accidents, we have had positive distances. I have official statistics here, and I would especially like to share a few of them with you, my fellow lawmakers: in 2002, the number of jobs in Turkey was 727, and in 2012, the number of jobs in Turkey is 1,538, so there has been an increase in the number of jobs in Turkey around 111.4 per cent in the last ten years, and there are 2.5 times the number of jobs. When we look at the number of employees, we have 5,200,000 employees in 2002, and we currently have around 12 million employees in Turkey. So if we look at the number of employees, we see an increase in the number of employees around 128.5%. If you look at the rate of occupational accidents in 100,000 workers, there is a decrease of around 54.7%. By the time you reach the death rate of 100,000 workers, there is a decline of around 63.1%. So, basically, Turkey is growing, production is increasing, we have a 2.5-fold increase in our number of employees, but the number of occupational accidents and fatal accidents is down from 54 to 63.5%. Again, one of the things that is constantly spoken of from this bench is the approach that Turkey is the first in Europe at the point of business accidents and the third in the world. I'm very clear, I'm speaking through the data declared by the 2008 International Labour Organization -- without adding social security and other data -- according to data from the World Labour Organization, where our friends used constant references, the death rate in Turkey in 2002 dropped from 16,000 to 6.2 percent in 2012. The number of business accidents is the 22nd place in the world, and according to 2012 data, our country has now reached a better point than Lithuania, Latvia and Bulgaria. Of course, we have a distance to take, and of course, when we hear about each and every business accident, our heart is breaking. I believe that with the full implementation of this law, as it creates awareness at the point of security, we are able to create a more modern, habitable, and really a working environment on the ILO norms that we all desire. I make it very clear that we are a government, a government that does not think about democratisation of working life, apart from the democratisation of Turkey, and we take vital steps to democratize working life. I hope, with this legal arrangement, I hope, that business accidents will be taken off the agenda of Turkey, and I hereby salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0051par0050	Thank you, Mr. Runar. In the end, Alderman Lütfü Türkkan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0052par0054	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the Republican People's Party to investigate the health and safety of workers in Turkey's Grand National Assembly as a group proposal. I salute you all. When a working person performs a job using production tools at work, facing various conditions during a production process, it causes him to suffer from occupational illness or business accidents. In today's industrial age, increasing relationships between the machine and the human are essential to the creation of physical environmental units such as human-compatible environments, things, machines, offices. The business environment, production tools and working human beings that form the main elements of production are constantly communicating and interacting throughout the production process. As a result, various problems in terms of working people arise, resulting in direct and indirect effects on the working person of various physical and chemical factors at work. Direct effects result in short - term poisoning and long - term occupational illness. The indirect effects of negative working conditions at work show themselves as work accidents. In addition to production technology, production tools, environmental conditions, many factors, such as sociology, psychological, physiological factors, are involved in the creation of business accidents. In addition, the lack of sufficient or adequate training for the work that a person is obliged to do or lack enough skill or experience, the fact that his work may seem difficult or unpleasant to him and that the employee's personality traits have been given a job without the proper work order for the worker or the worker, leads to unsafe behavior and the reasons for the business accident. The environmental conditions that affect the working person are widely considered, including the worker's family structure and family problems, feeding, and many factors from the vehicles he uses when he comes to work to the length of the road. In addition, the way you pay wages at work, pay level, shift system, business size and management are among the factors that affect the behavior of a working person in a positive or negative way. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers today are getting worse and worse, and the wrong policies and practices of the AKP government are starting to pose a danger in the lives of workers. In almost every sector, the increase of fatal and injured accidents day by day is the most concrete proof of that. From 2002 to October 2011, 706,608 work accidents occurred, while 15,961 workers were constantly unable to function. 297 workers have also lost their lives, so on average 1,000 workers a year have lost their lives due to business accidents. Look, the latest report by the Istanbul Labor Health and Occupational Security Assembly reveals the invisible extent of this disaster. According to this report, at least 109 workers lost their lives in the first ten months of 2013, only seven in October. This report also showed that business accidents in Turkey are not accidents, but almost murder. If you say, "Who is responsible for this murder?" it is the Justice and Development Party, which insists on wrong policy, practices and lack of control. As a result of the wrong policies and practices of power, workers' lives are getting worse and worse, the ruling party has ignored the health and security of workers. The recent deaths of workers are the greatest proof of that. Today, many workers are now fully exploited by unsecured labor, insecurely employed, setting the stage for irreparable accidents, permanent damage, injury, and even mortal accidents. According to the same report of the Istanbul Labor Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, 84 workers lost their lives in January 2013, 61 workers in February, 74 workers in March, 74 workers in April, 105 workers in May, 120 workers in July, 148 workers in August, 127 workers in September, and 109 workers in October, four children. Mr. President, valued MPs, workers in our country are considered a cost factor. Life ends because there are no necessary measures for the health and safety of workers. Unlawful work, prolonged work hours, lack of necessary security measures, and the deaths of work accidents are increasing day by day due to poor working conditions. And it's happening in a century when technology develops and all kinds of products are produced that make human life easier. The glittering world of the capital class shines even brighter with the labor of workers, while the workers' lives are blackened. The Justice and Development Party government, fatefully explaining the violent business accidents. Most important, however, is the fact that 98 per cent of business accidents, 100 per cent of occupational illness, are preventable, but the AKP government does not mention that they themselves have caused business accidents with extended hours, overtime, subcontractory, reduction of wages, due to the lack of necessary security measures. Here, I want to hit subcontractor again. The families of subcontractors who remain in mortal business accidents are devastated, unable to find any compensation. Therefore, Turkey must immediately stop subcontractorship in order to really end labour exploitation. Before I put an end to my words, I wish that our workers would work in safer and healthier environments, have a business life without job accidents and the deaths of workers, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0053par0063	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Against you, Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0054par0067	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you with love. Yes, we're now discussing a proposal given by our dear congressman with a group of congressmen, but when I look at it, our esteemed congressman, Bkent Tezcan, is not in the living room right now. In fact, he also mentioned in his words that we, at least, bring up such a subject in order that it may come up or be remembered once again. He said, "We thank him." Yes, an important issue is that business accidents are an important agenda, including subcontractors, and we can provide a barber's shift in which our government is open to any suggestion, in order to shape the work that can be done together. Dear friends, as you know, our agenda is clear. In this agenda, as much as we respect this offer, I'd like to say once again that we disagree. Our esteemed MP highlighted one thing: we can't understand the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0055par0072	I don't understand. He said.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0054par0073	I'll fix it, I don't understand. He said. Yes, wherever you go, wherever you go in the world, a taxi driver in Arabia understood, a farmer in Belgium understood, a merchant in America understood, but still the Republican People's Party didn't understand, and if it goes like this, they don't intend to understand. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0056par0077	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0057par0079	It's enough to make a decision...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0056par0080	I will, sir. I submit the group proposal to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0058par0082	Don't push it, don't push it, don't push it.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0056par0083	We'll vote on the electronic device.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0059par0084	Mr. President, if you're saying there isn't one, I don't understand why you're giving it time.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0056par0085	There's been a disagreement among the clerks, Mr. Tütin, they insist.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0060par0086	Why can't they get along?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0059par0087	When your friends were out of math in high school?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit02spe0056par0088	I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. And for that, I'll vote with the electronic device for a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough of a decision, it's not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and then I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1675) I respectfully submit that my main Law Proposal (2/1675) should be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu is the owner of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0061par0015	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm referring to a matter that all those who truly have a human conscience and human beings should listen to under the roof of this House, and I ask you to listen to this matter outside of our party identities. Dear friends, there is a matter in Law Proposal (2/1675) that concerns the prisoners and the sick. Today's about... [[Noises]] Mr. President, a General Assembly...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0062par0019	Go ahead, go ahead. Congressmans, if you'll be quiet, we'll be able to hear the conversation better. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0063par0022	Dear friends, I'm talking about something you don't care about, you don't care about, and people die in prison every day. Today, there are 544 prisoners and convicted patients who are heavy in prison on November 3, 2013. The arrangement for these is insufficient. Forensic medicine has a monopoly, it's impossible to treat a patient without the approval of forensic medicine, a patient, a prisoner outside, and there's no way to get a report from Forensics. In any case, it's a great waste of time and a great torment to have a prisoner or a prisoner reach the hospital, to have access to Forensic Medicine from there. Today, there are dozens of prisoners and prisoners waiting in Metris Prison, trying to wait their turn, under difficult circumstances. The problem with these prisoners and prisoners is the conscience of this House. We can't just leave them there. Therefore, there are dozens of education and research hospitals in Turkey today, there are dozens of medical schools in Turkey today, all qualified and qualified to give these reports. Therefore, the penal code must be changed in Article 16 of the Penal Code, and the monopoly of Forensic Medicine must be removed. Dear friends, the fourth judicial package has been changed again and the situation has been corrected. It has been called, but it has been worsened. Even if the coroner reports today, the release of the convicted and convicted prisoner who had been diagnosed with illness, it is not harmful for the republic's Attorney General to receive the report. That's why there are dozens of prisoners and prisoners waiting in prisons. There are dozens of prisoners and prisoners who are not allowed to report to the state's attorney's office, even though Forensic Medicine has given them a positive report. Therefore, our proposal must be raised. In particular, dear friends, I ask you, truly, this carelessness is what our citizens who are watching this painting see now is your sensitivity to human rights, to freedoms, and to the solution process that you speak so highly of, they really see it. If you really believe in democracy, if you really believe in the consensus in this Parliament, if you really believe in the dialogue to solve problems, let's come together here, at the point where we can solve this problem, the problem of every faith, every idea, every political thought, or anyone who doesn't have any ideas. If you've done it right so far, ignore our motions, do it wrong today, and if you've ever done it wrong, do it right this time. Let's put this proposal on the agenda, and together, let's take a step forward, where the problems of prisoners and prisoners can be solved under this roof of Congress. Mr. Prime Minister said a lot of things in Diyarbakır three days ago, really, but he didn't say a word about democracy, about freedom, just one sentence. He didn't say anything about what to do. Open, read, not a single sentence, dear friends. It's a concrete opportunity. Look, in this House, I've given you a lot of opportunities, you've rejected them all, you've rejected them all. Here's another opportunity: let's bring up this bill in terms of the problems of the sick, inmate and inmate who is on his deathbed, and if there's a shortage, let's complete it together, let's clear the way. Look, I'm speaking to the President here: the former President had pardoned 270 patients and prisoners who were sick, who were dying. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The number of patients that Mr. Gül has forgiven is 30, only 30. There's also another structure that uses its powers ideologically. Thank you for your sensitivity.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0064par0030	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba... Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0065par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the prisons have a lot of problems. We're constantly talking about the problems of normal patients in prison, families who visit people in prison. However, unfortunately, the House still hasn't been able to come up with a solution to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as soon as you enter the prisons, you are subject to a naked search. I don't know if there's an example in the world, but as soon as they're in, the prisoners get the first sentence before the court decides they're guilty before they're even more guilty. The prisoners face the naked truth. Naked search, dishonorable search, pleasure calls, I'm afraid you'll find in all prisons. It's a shame for everyone who's human. Then, you go to prison, prisoners face problems based on the prison's type. Some of them are in prison wards for 10 people, 20 or 30 in a row, sleeping in shifts, breathing in shifts. Some people are trying to get laid out of intensity, in front of the bathroom, while some people are dripping on sewer pipes. Some in prison are in solitary confinement to the death, they're being dehumanized to the death. Type F, unemployed torture, silent death. They punish people by making them lonely. Besides, if you turn to the right, turn to the left, crime, talk, crime, arbitrary disciplinary action, the prisoners are being punished. Dear friends, in short, all prisons produce diseases, and as a result of the policies, we have a problem. Maybe the worst problem of prisons, maybe the most burning problem of prisons, is the case of sick prisoners. Everything's a problem for sick prisoners, dear friends. First they have to prove they're sick, and once they prove they're sick, they have a shipping problem. Just last week, a kid's finger was broken in Adana Prison, trying to get transferred to prove he's sick, and a month and a half later he's being transferred, but his finger's boiling. Dear friends, there's a ring when you get sick and transfer. The patients who got into that ring say, "God forbid anyone should be put in the ring, God does not need anyone in this ring." Many sick prisoners don't go to the hospital to avoid getting in that ring. If you go to the doctor after all, if the doctor is a doctor at the government's disposal, I'm afraid he's forcing a handcuffed examination. Apart from the handcuffed examination, there are patients who have been operated on in handcuffs. Dear lawmakers, there's only one way for sick prisoners to get out of prison, and that's death, I'm afraid. The Prime Minister has been saying lately that we're going to evacuate his prisons. He's probably going to empty his prisons by killing people. Dear friends, we as CHP Prison Commission have prepared the Patient Prison Report, Mr. Nurettin Demir and Mr. Free Private. The biggest problem for sick prisoners is valuable lawmakers, the biggest problem for sick prisoners, the biggest obstacle they face is the Forensic Medical Association. I'd like to give you an example to get to know forensic medicine. Dear friends, a patient who is well-known to the public is Fatih Hilmioğlu. In Silivri Prison, he is trying to survive severe diseases such as liver cancer, sugar, kidney damage. The Faculty of Surgery and Medicine of Fatih Hilmioğlu -- one of Turkey's most important universities -- reports three times, saying: "There is a high degree of cirrhosis, beginning of cancer, if it stays in prison conditions, it dies." So, who hears this? Unfortunately, the M.E. is ignoring it. We brought it up this year, brought it up to the president. On February 18, 2013, Hilmioğlu is applying for legal medicine. Dear lawmakers, there hasn't been a word in nine months from Forensics because he can't answer, and he's afraid to answer because, unfortunately, it's an institution under the government of forensic medicine. Dear MPs, Fatih Hilmioglu is now a patient awaiting death, and I'm afraid no one has heard it, no one has a conscience except us. Dear friends, if there is a conscience in this House, 162 will remove the Forensic Medicine Institution for a terminal 544 heavy patient and arrange for only university hospitals to deliver the reports. If you still have a conscience about this, if you still have a bit of a conscience about sick prisoners, I'm asking you to change that clause. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0066par0048	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, we're going to move on to the part of the agenda with the oral questions. (x) Verbal question motions are not read in the General Assembly and are added to the report. I would like to call Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to the stand to respond to the verbal question motions I made in the section of the hearings. Here you go, Mr. Eker. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We'd appreciate it if you'd state it. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm going to present to you today the answers to the 67 question motions. One of them is the main verbal question motion for former Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin (6/119), which is asked (6/119), and 66 are the proposals for our Ministry of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The 66 verbal questions I'm going to respond to belong to 23 Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt, 12 Adedi Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, 11 Adana MP Mr. Ali Halaman, and 20 other members of parliament whose names I'm about to mention later. I'm going to answer it in a way that combines the answers to proposals with similar questions. Mr. President, I submit this. Mr. President, Mr. Ensar Öğümün who has the motion, Mr. Ensar İdris Naim Şahin (6/119) has referred to the former Minister of the Interior, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin (6/119). Regarding the request of Ardahan district and district municipalities for meat transport, the slaughterhouse services in Ardahan province are being carried out by the private sector within the municipality limits of Ardahan Municipality. There are also warnings on improving the services of the slaughterhouse and resolving the shortcomings. The Ministry of Interior will be moved to planning based on the need for meat transport to the municipality of Ardahan in the District of Ardahan. The main proposals of Mr. Dedeoğlu (6/1139) and 6/1197 (6/1140) and Mr. Halaman (6/1140), (6/1161) and (6/1245). Since the questions in our lawmakers' motions contain similar issues, I will answer them together. Regarding Mr. Dedeoglu's questions about the problems of our farmers who have been damaged by storms and heavy rains across the country and the studies of the frost and the rains that Mr. Halaman put out in Adana, in 2012, the delay also covers our producers who were damaged by various natural disasters in the province of January-August 81, as well as those of our producers at the Farm Bank and agriculture loan co-ops, whose debt was delayed by the Council of Ministers decisions issued on different dates, which were damaged by the storm, by excessive rain and floods and floods and water raids. The flood and frost disaster is covered by agricultural insurance. The manufacturers who insured him in Adana, and in other provinces are paid compensations determined by damage assessments. From 1/1/2012 to 23/2/2012, a total of 215 damages were reported to Tarsim, due to the damage caused by the frost risk caused by Mr. Halaman's question motion. As a result of the assessments made to these calls, the damages of $866,000 have been paid. Again, in connection with Mr. Halaman's question about the damage caused by the rains in Adana and its districts, there have been a total of 135 reports of damage to TARSIM (TARSIM) due to the damage caused by the flood and flood risk of agricultural insurance from the producers in our Adana province in 2012. Damage assessments by TARSIM experts concluded that a total payment of 14.373 TL was paid. In 2012, as part of agricultural insurance in Adana province, our producers received a total of $7.6m in policy support and were paid $5.6m in damage. Regarding Mr. Halaman and Mr. Dedeoglu's questions about implementing agricultural insurance, state-funded agricultural insurance practices were launched for the first time in 2006 and 50% of the policy price is covered by the state. The scope of state-funded agricultural insurance practices is expanded every year. In order to expand the insurance coverage, work is being carried out in cooperation with relevant institutions and organisations, particularly our Treasury Undersecretary. There has been a significant development since 2006, when the implementation of agricultural insurance, which, according to other insurance types, began. A total of 3.4 million insurance policies were cut from 2006 to the end of October 2013, with a bonus of $994m, payment of $1 billion in damages. It is important that manufacturers update the Farmers' Recording System and other integrated records in this system every year and have insurance in this framework, and that they have no problems in implementing it. Due to the negative weather conditions -- due to natural disasters -- Mr. Dedeoglu's questions about the increase of vegetable prices and its impact on fruit vegetable exports, product prices are due to the supply-ticket balance in the free market, so there is no interference in our ministry's product prices. Natural disasters and bad weather can negatively affect the supply and quality of agricultural products and cause temporary price fluctuations in short periods. However, in general, our country's production of fruits and vegetables and exports have seen significant increases in recent years. OUR total production of fruits and vegetables in 2010 increased to 42.6 million tonnes in 2012 to 45.8 million tonnes. In 2010, our export of fruits and vegetables -- including dried fruit -- was worth $2,44,000 tonnes, $2.4 billion, and in 2012, its monetary value was 4.4 billion. The main no. 6/1160 of Mr. Halaman. Proposal for illegal meat captured at the limit: Law 5996 and deterrent measures regarding animal and animal trafficking have been taken. Our ministry, the General Staff, the National Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Customs and Trade, is co-operation in co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prevent trafficking in living animals and animal goods, and all kinds of control and control mechanisms are being carried out intensively. In particular, municipal governorships, illegal entrances and exits within the borders are instructed to take necessary measures to prevent crossings. In the event of a situation involving trafficking in audits and controls, the law on product and product owners is carried out. In living animals, they are confiscated and cut into the nearest slaughterhouse, and the property is publicized. If living animals and goods on the run are distributed, it is collected by its owner and fined $5,000 in administrative fines. Since the Ministry of Customs and Trade is responsible for the illegal animal or animal products detected at border crossings, the data is also available in the relevant ministry. Their claims that meat prices are high are not true, regarding the increase in meat prices and the questions related to efforts to prevent this from happening. Meat prices are monitored daily by our ministry, and on April 26, 2010, the average price of karkas, which is 16.13 euros, is 16.28 euros, as of November 18, 2013. On April 26, 2010, the average price of meat in Ankara's district markets was 24.24 TL/kg, while the average price of meat in Ankara's markets was 27.29 TL/kg, while the average price of meat dated 18/11/2013 was 23.22 TL/kg, and the price of a bird's head was 25.14 TL/kg. The price of meat sold by the Meat and Milk Association is 18.5 TL/kg, and the price per bird is $23/kg. The effective policies in the field of animalism, the substantial amount of support and investments that have been made have led to significant improvements in the sector in recent years and have prevented fluctuations in meat prices. Some of the work done in this scope is as follows: Carnivorous support for animalism is provided in 2002, with an animal support of 83 million TL, which is 2.3 billion euros per month by the end of October 2013. By the end of the year, it will reach 2.5 billion TL. From 1 August 2010, the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Co-ops used about $7.3 billion in non-interest loans to our farmers. The EBK has been restructured and established the General Directorate for Meat and Milk in order to eliminate the negative effects of price fluctuations in meat and milk, protect and increase the producer's income, and ensure stability in the market. The motion of Mr. Bridgellu (6/1170) for environmental damage to the environment is the responsibility of our Ministry for preventing the spread of animal disease in accordance with Law 5996. Environmental impacts, such as solid and liquid waste and smell in livestock companies, are in the responsibility of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, according to Environmental Law 2872. If there is a need and demand within this scope, the Ministry will also provide the necessary support for the municipal administrations of environmental and urbanism within its mandate. The motion for the infrastructure problem of the main number-one Iğdır animal market (6/1204) is proposed by animal markets, municipalities, trading rooms, and by real and corporate people. The Iğdır district does not have a licensed animal sales site, but the registration and audits of animal sales are conducted according to the Ministry's regulations on the licensing and Inspection of Animal Sales Places dated 24/12/2011. According to the relevant regulations, there are services available to provide the basic needs of our citizens at animal sales, which are licensed. The main proposal of the motion owner, Mr. Topcu (6/1251): In response to Mr. Topcu's questions about genetically modified products, genetically modified products in the world are products such as cotton, soy, canola, and corn. Operations related to genetically modified products in our country are carried out according to the Biosecurity Act, which was adopted in 2010 and under the sub-laws published under the Law. The production of GMO products in our country is strictly prohibited. There are no gene or genetically modified products allowed to use for food purposes in our country, and imports of these products are strictly not allowed. According to the application for genetically modified products, according to scientific assessments of risk and socioeconomic evaluations by scientific committees under Law 5977, the Biosecurity Board decides. While reviewing scientific committees created by the Biosecurity Board, international agencies who assess risk assessments -- including the EFSA, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Agency, the international institutions of the United Nations and Europe -- take into account the results of scientific research, the possible risks of production, consumption and human health in different countries. In order to be used only in animal bait, three soy types and 16 types of corn have been allowed to be imported by the Biosecurity Board, and the decisions of the Bio Security Board are published in the Official Gazette. By our ministry, checks are being made to meet the conditions set out in the Biosecurity Board decisions, imports are subject to GMO analysis, and GDO detected products are definitely not allowed to enter the dorm. In addition, the control of foods that may contain genetically modified products by our ministry is effectively conducted within the framework of prepared control plans, doubt, reports and complaints, and samples are taken from these products. In the necessary cases, monitoring is being conducted, and samples are being taken and examined from raw materials used to produce such products. The main motion of Mr. Crescent Kaplan (6/1269) is: For the first time in the ministry, various projects, programmes and supports have been implemented for the development of mandarin in Kandira, and for the development of Kandira yogurt. In 2008, the main manda support was launched. In 2013, $350 per buffalo is supported. So far, our 484 farmers have paid $677,000 for the head buffalo. Manda milk is supported by raw milk. In 2012, the amount of support for 15 cents per liter was raised to 20 cents per liter in 2013. The Manda Correctional Project is under the protection of animal gene resources. The project also sponsored $650 per buffalo in 2012, which continued in 2013. Investments by the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Credit Co-ops to up to 3 million TL are given a 50 per cent interest reduction loan. In the programme for Supporting Country Development Investments, investments in mandaism are funded by 50 per cent. In 2012, 100 head of the Manda milk production project to be implemented in Kandira district is part of the project, as well as studies on the establishment of the buffalo manufacturers' union in Kandira. In connection with Mr. Kaplan's question about the development of turkeys in Kandira, and the establishment of a manufacturing farm, it is done in the province of Kopeeli as turkey, in closed henhouses, and in the form of mecha turkey. In Kandira district, 23 henhouses produce close to 300,000 a year, with special management sources from 2003-2005 providing $270,000 in funding for the development of mera dynasty in this district, with 59,185 turkey machetes, supplied 45 days' feed and distributed to our farmers. In addition, the construction of the turkey facilities provides the necessary convenience and support within our ministry's mandate. Mr. Shafah (6/1280) and (6/1668) are the main no. Question proposals: In 2012, 612 million TL was paid, and in 2013, 744 million TL bonus support was paid, and much of the payments were completed. However, premiums are paid in terms of drinks from our provinces. The city of Niğde was paid $3.4m in 2012 and 2.6m in 2013. In 2012, gas, fertilizer and soil analysis supports were transferred to farmers' accounts on March 6, 2012. The 2013 support was paid as of the first week of March. A meeting was held on 16 May 2012 with Nüğde district representatives and producers of the Nüğde district of the Ministry and the Ministry of Economics in connection with the market problem of the potato manufacturers in the main proposal of Mr. Shafak (6/1668). Again, the Joint Mind Meeting with Niğde and Nevşehir potato producers was organised by our Ministry in September 2012 to ensure the consumption of potato products on the domestic market, and a plan of action on potatoes was put into effect under the decisions taken at the meeting. A total of 10,000 tonnes of potatoes from the cities of Nüğde and Nevşehir were bought at 20 cents/kilograms of price by Tareks, an agricultural loan co-op. So both the potatoes in the warehouses were sold and the market was brought back to life. With this reanimation, the private firms bought potatoes from the market, and according to our findings, there were no potatoes left in the warehouses. The main proposals of Mr. Halaman (6/1284) and (6/1593) are: Our ministry has given our Adana province significant support for the development of the agricultural sector over the past decade. Adana was given a total of 45m euros in agricultural support in 2002, while in November 2013, 243m euros were supported. In 2003-2013, Adana was given a total of $1 billion,834m in cash agricultural support. At the same time, the province of Adana was given a total of $1 billion,234 million in premiums, $118.4m in livestock support. According to TİİK data in our province of Adana with the supports and projects provided, the production of farm plants increased by 23 per cent in 2002-2012 and fruit production by 32 per cent in 2002. Regarding the questions that supports in Adana have been paid late according to other provinces, agricultural support for our province of Adana is done at the same time, as in all other counties, in terms of support for our ministry. In this framework, there is absolutely no distinction between cities or different practices, or disinterest in Turkish farmers. Our producers in Adana and other counties will continue to support our agricultural production and development. Mr. Dedeoğlu's main proposal (6/1306) is for Mr. Tüzzel (6/1927): The questions of our lawmakers will be answered together, since they contain similar issues. Mr. Dedeoglu and Mr. Tützel have been working at our ministry in 2002 as a total of 318 water products engineer and fishing technology engineers, while in 2013 a total of 806 water products engineer and fisherman technology engineers are working. Our ministry currently serves as eight veterinary physicians, 15 agricultural engineers, 60 water products engineers and a fisherman's technology engineer. Work will continue, as it has been done so far, for the work of an engineer of water products and fishing technology, given the capacity of staff and budgets by our ministry. In 2012 and 2013, 22 water products engineers and 2 fishing technology engineers were placed in our Ministry, according to the results of the Paramedics Audition Examination. In 2013, KPSS installed 50 water products engineers and five fishing technology engineers. A total of 2,500 personnel, including 1,516 veterinary physicians and 984 engineers, were co-signed to our ministry as part of the TAR-GEL Project on 3 January 2013 by OSYM. The TAR-GEL employs 155 water products engineers. In regards to the question of Mr. Tüzzel....that there is no separate unit for water products in the ministry's rural organisation and the restructuring of Water Products Law 1380, there are no branch managers in the form of a direct reflection of service units in rural agencies. A functional structure was intended here, aimed at more efficient and efficient use of personnel. In addition to technological and scientific developments in Water Products Law 1380, changes have been started, considering today's needs. The draft draft at the end of the study opened the ministry's website to all public opinion. Mr Dedeoğlu's (6/1322), (6/1323), (6/1324), (6/1351) and (6/1352) main no. Lu motions: In order for the village on the side of the road to join the village's corporate personality, the village room, the parish chamber, the village room, and the village village's purpose for allocation has been requested to meet the needs of the village's village, the village room, and the village's village's village. The request was assessed under Mera Law 4342 and was approved by the county mera commission on 19/04/2013. The decision was approved by the governorship on 19/07/2013. In relation to the water evacuation and solution to the problem caused by the water evacuation of the Minehöyuk village farmland, the forest and waterworks ministry is in charge of the motion. Our ministry provides the necessary support for working in cooperation with relevant institutions and organisations. According to information from the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, in 2012, the area's abundance of rain and the demand of local farmers was launched by the DSI to open a new 150m-long side-saving channel between the Kıllı village and the village of the Jewels, starting the evacuation of the current excess water to the Aksu River. The activities related to the construction of an agricultural irrigation channel in the villages of Kahramanmarash Pazarcık, Çınarlı, Lowermülk, Upper Höcuklü, Kırpınar and Sakarkaya are also in the area of the Ministry of Forests and Waters. According to the relevant ministry, the construction of 4,490 hectares is planned as part of the China Project and is in the process of project planning. Adıyaman, who is preparing to plan farmland in lower and upper Höcüklı villages, will be watered as part of the Göksu-Carn Project; Sakarkaya village will be watered as part of watering the same project's Abbasiye regulator. According to information from the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs regarding the completion of the irrigation channel to Amik Plain in Turkoglu district, Central Ceyhan Menzelet II. The Amik Plain will be watered through its Guided main channel under the Welcome Project. Construction of the first 38km section of the guided main channel, some 86km (86km) is under way. The first 38km section of the main canal, which carries water to the Amik Plain, was scheduled to be completed in 2013. The manual irrigation is intended to end the 48km section of the main canal in 2016. In regards to the building of the district's agricultural directorates in Andirın, Ekinöz, Elbistan and Nurhak districts of Kahramanmarash Province, and adequate staff employment in these districts, the Prime Minister's office has been granted permission to build a service building for our districts of Kahramanmarash Ekinözu and Elbistan. The Elbia County Department's service building has been put into investment programme, and the implementation project is under way. The Ekinözü district manager's service building is scheduled to be put into a new investment programme. Nurhak district office has been assigned a local health clinic as a service building, completed moving, and has been earmarked for maintenance. There is no request for a new service building in the district of Andırın. There are 18 technical staff in Andırın district of Kahramanmarash district, 13 in Ekinözü district, 57 in Elbistan district and 2 in Nurhak district. The request for personnel will also be met in accordance with the need. Of Mr. Karaahmetoglu (6/1358), (6/1707) and (6/1708) original no. Question proposals: The latest decision of the Council of Ministers, 2011/1812, which ensures the payment of the loans to the manufacturers, has been issued concerning Mr. Karaahmetoglu's question regarding the new decision on the sale of the nut found in the stockpile of TMO. According to this decision, TMO has been tasked with securing up to 50,000 tonnes of nuts in its stock and selling them to FISKOBIRKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKMlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlKlggglglglglglglglglglglglgllglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglgffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff A total of 28,500 tons of nuts were sold in 2011 and 2012. As for the balance of 21,500 tonnes, the decision will be carried out following the completion of the work of the Undersecretary of the Treasury, which has been audited by FİSKOBIRK. Regarding studies on Mr. Karaahmetoglu's new nut strategy and questions regarding the results of these, the new nut strategy was implemented in 14 counties and 105 districts, which were allowed to produce nuts by the Council of Ministers in 2011/1424. From 2009 to 2012, the Nut producers were paid a total of 450 euros per pound in three years, including 150 euros per pot. In addition, manufacturers who gave up the production of nuts and switched to alternative products were supported by a total of $600 per year in three years. A total of $2.8 billion, alternative product support and a total of $3.4m in support under the application of field-based income support, and a total of $590m paid as part of the amount of income for our producers producing nuts in licensed areas. Applying field-based income support in nuts is 2013/4245. The Council of Ministers' decision will continue for three years between 2012 and 2014. In this case, those who grow nuts in licensed areas will be given 150 euros for 2012, 160 euros for 2013, and 170 euros for 2014. Our production of nuts was 430,000 tonnes in 2011, while in 2012 it increased by 53 percent to 660,000 tonnes. According to the second estimates of 2013, this production is expected at 549 thousand tonnes. 12 to 15 per cent of our country's nut production is produced in Giresun Province. As in all our nut-producing provinces, Giresun County may have changes in recollete, depending on climate conditions over the years. Our ministry is informing our producers and conducting training and publishing in order to improve store conditions in nuts. In 2012, as part of the study of licensed storage in the nut, it was licensed for 25,000 tonnes in Ünye, and 10,000 tonnes in Düzce. As of the end of October 2013, a total of 787 tons of crustacean nuts were preserved. Projects and studies are being conducted by Giresun County Directorate and the Giresun Nut Research Institute on education, publication, selection, soil and leaf analysis, combating disease and harm. Of Mr. Nazlıaka (6/1362), (6/1929) and (6/1933) original no. Lu motions: As for the agricultural fields and irrigation investments in Ankara, data on the agricultural areas of all our provinces, including Ankara, are publicly published by TİK. Investments related to irrigation are conducted in the field of the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, with a total of 100,000 hectares watered in our province of Ankara. As part of our ministry's Programme for Supporting Rural Development Investments, mass-pressure irrigation projects from 2006 to today are supported by 75 per cent, and individual field irrigation projects are supported by 50 per cent. A total of 229 projects have been completed in Ankara's province and has been paid $2.6m in grants and has been provided with the use of a pressurized irrigation system in approximately 11,000 per cent. The Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-opters use zero interest loans from 2007 to today. In Ankara, a total of 2,425 manufacturers have thus far used $42.8m in loans to use a pressurized irrigation system for about 95,000 per cent. Regarding the loan debts of producers in Ankara's province in 2010 and 2011, Agriculture Bank reported that a total of 547m euros was used to produce 10,668 producers in Ankara in 2010 and a total of $322m in agricultural loans to producers in 2011. As of 31/12/2011, the Bank of Agriculture will receive around $21m in loans on 1.070 producers registered in the accounts to be liquidated, so 21 million of 322 million is seen to receive only loans. According to agricultural loan co-ops, $8,366 was used by agricultural loan co-ops in Ankara in 2010 for 83 million euros and $136m loans to 9.585 partners in 2011. Agricultural Bank and agricultural loan co-ops also provide various payment benefits for producers who are unable to pay their debts and are involved in processing their own legislation. Agricultural return rates in Ankara in 2002: 41% in agriculture Bank, 78 per cent in agricultural loan co-opters, while 97 per cent in Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Co-ops in 2012. Regarding Mr. Nazlıaka (Mr. Nazlıaka)'s questions about the change in the number of animals given in Ankara over the past five years and animal support: data on animal numbers in the province are publicly published by TİK. In Ankara, between 2007 and 2013, farmers were given a total of $136.4m worth of livestock support. Our ministry has supported the production of bait plants, an important entry into the livestock industry. In this case, producers in Ankara have been paid a total of $21m supply plants. Mera reform studies in the animal industry have been focused on providing for the need for brute bait, and mera rehabilitation in Ankara has been completed in 70,633 areas as part of 10 projects. Regarding watering co-ops, which cannot repay electricity due to agricultural irrigation: watering co-ops and irrigation issues are not in our ministry's field, but talks are being held by the ministry, institutions and organisations. A different legal arrangement on electricity debts has provided the opportunity to restructure and instalments of debt. Regarding the land collection projects conducted in Ankara's province over the past five years: a collection of 609 hectares has been completed. A total of 156,000 hectares of work continue in six projects. A total of 20,000 hectares of project preparation are being carried out in Beypazarı and Polatlı districts; as a result of the study work done, Ankara has found that there are 8 districts in Ankara, 59 districts, with a total of 19,000 hectares of collectiveisation projects, and are also scheduled to begin in these areas. Mr. Horseman's main motion (6/1364) is to provide bait for animal farmers in some districts of Van (Van) due to the earthquake that occurred in the Van Province: the County Damage Control Commission was set up to identify those who were injured by the earthquake in Van province. A total of $65m in feed support has been paid to livestock companies that have been damaged by this Commission. The construction of 3,498 tents, animal shelters, and 6,000 feeders has been completed by the Ministry for the feeding and housing of the livestock of our farmers who were destroyed by the earthquake in Van County. In addition, 568 head of cattle and 700 head of stud sheep have been distributed to our endangered breeders for free. Mr Dedeoğlu's (6/1378) and (6/1379) original no. It is related to Lu proposals: the use of starch-based sugar and the regulations related to sugar imports are not in our ministry's field, and is conducted by the Candy Corporation under Law 4634 issued in 2001. Research on the effects of starch-based sugar on health, related academic institutions and health services are part of our ministry's field of duty. According to our ministry, important studies for healthy food are being carried out alongside reliable food, and new regulations for the use of sugar and salt are being carried out in this area. Regarding Mr. Dedeoğlu's proposal for the establishment of a municipal control laboratory in Kahramanmarash: there are 41 public labs in our ministry, which are located near Kahramanmarash, Sivas, Kayseri, Adana and Gaziantep. The distribution of samples is made according to the analysis parameters where the labs are competent. Food control labs can be established by the Council of Ministers, but as of now, the food control laboratory in Kahramanmarash is not planned. Of Mr. Öğün (6/1389), (6/1404) and (6/1405). Lu motions: As of February 2012, under Act 4876, the Agricultural Bank and agricultural loan co-opters run by agricultural bank and agricultural loan co-operatives, for the reconstruction of subsidies and the restructuring of subsidies agricultural loan debt. According to information received from the Agriculture Bank, there is no collection for the manufacturer and the person who restructured his debt under Law 4876 as of February 2012, but continued to fulfil its commitment. According to information received from the General Directorate of Agriculture Credit Co-operatives, the debt of 546,103 partners who have applied for $1 billion,409m on 587,966 partners, who were previously due under Law 4876, has been consolidated. After the end of Law Act 2003/4876, 30/1/2006 was provided with various payment benefits by agricultural loan co-ops. Regarding the payment of the gas and fertilizer money for the farmers in Ardahan (Ardahan): The gas and fertilizer funds for 2012 were transferred to farmers' accounts on March 6, 2012, while their support for 2013 was paid in the first week of March. Ardahan province received $2.6m worth of diesel and $3.3m in chemical fertilizer support in 2012, $2.8m in diesel and $3.5m in chemical fertilizer support in 2013. The Kars Yem Factory has 5 slaughterhouses, including the privatisation of the Kars Yem Factory, the closing of the meat combination and the need for the wool processing plant, in our town of Kars, in our province of Kares, and in the districts of Kars. Two of these slaughterhouses are city slaughterhouses and three other private sectors. In addition, the Erzurum Meat Combiner is under contract for a slaughter in a slaughterhouse on behalf of the Meat and Milk Association. The breeders who want to cut their animals can make cutbacks in the slaughterhouse in the city centre. About 25 per cent of the daily quota for Erzurum Meat Combined is dedicated to our provinces of Kars and Ardahan. There are three private sector bait factories with a total of 31 tonnes/hour production license in Kars, with no animal skin and sheep wool processing facilities in the Kars province, but opportunities are provided as part of investment incentives by the Ministry of Economics to invest both within the province and outside the province. The main proposals of Mr. Halaman (6/1451, 1457, 1527, 1592) are: The Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry and its respective organisations and magazines are being produced by some of the local departments of our ministry. The magazine budget is covered by the general budget, return capital, advertising revenues and so on, and magazines are printed by Ministry printers or private printers. These magazines are published for the purpose of informing producers and public opinion on agricultural issues, developing expert and technical staff's professional and operational information on agriculture, informing all our partners of the agricultural agenda and agricultural sector. Regarding the price of wheat and the price of bread in Adana: policies are created by our ministry to track grain markets to regulate markets and ensure sustainable production. The price of intervention, product costs, production, inflation rate, prosperity share, sustainability of production, improvements in the world markets and prices of the previous year have been determined. In 2012, when the proposal was asked, the initial purchase price was 635 TMO for the Anatolian red hard wheat, which contained 11.5-12 per cent protein, increased the purchase price by 10 per cent compared to the previous year. The price goes up to 780 TL/tons, along with an additional 115 TL/ton support given by our ministry. During the 2013-2014 buy-in period, the initial purchase price is 720 TMO for the Anatolian red hard wheat, which contains 11.5 to 12 per cent protein. With additional support from 123 TL/tons, the price goes up to 843 TL/tons. The price of purchase is up to 742 euros per ton in quality wheat, whose protein is 13 per cent and above, which is low on sun. Bread prices are determined by municipalities and bakers' rooms, and our ministry has no involvement in this. Regarding milk prices in Adana and its districts in 2012: Raw milk price is in market conditions, but there is no intervention from the Ministry in this issue, but it is sought to prevent negative impacts by the different supports imposed by our ministry and by producers from the periodic fluctuations in milk prices. The support for cow milk is determined in three months, considering market prices and conditions of the day, thus preventing the victims of our producers and consumers. In 2012, Adana was paid $4.8m for 94 thousand tonnes of raw milk, and in 2013, raw milk support premiums were paid in 1st and 2nd periods. Adana was paid $11.6m for 26,000 tonnes of raw milk in 2013. Milk is encouraged to produce dairy powder for the market, thus preventing milk powder imports and supplying the need with domestic production. The number of animals registered in our country in 2011 is 11 million 454,526 head of cattle and 29 million 382,924 head of cattle, and 12,484,969 head of cattle in 2012. About the numbers of Mr. Right and Mr. Ömüt. About the import of live animals and meat and their proposals for stopping it: As a ministry, the state of the animal industry and meat markets has been evaluated both for producers and consumers, and the customs taxes in importing are reduced to 100 per cent in carkas et on 30/12/2012, and the demand for animal imports has been reduced to 40 per cent in butchering living animals, and the demand for animal imports has been reduced and is not made. Import permits are not given to any of our institutions. Imported animals and meats are being transferred to the location of the importer's business or slaughterhouse, and data on foreign trade are regularly and openly announced by TİK. Regarding Mr. Öğümüş's motions to move BSE disease to our country due to imports: Health conditions in importing live animals and carkas beef are determined according to the national regulations of the World Animal Health Organization and the European Union, where our country is also a member. The official vet who was assigned by our ministry in the export country is being conducted with pre-import examinations and checks. In addition, strict veterinary controls are being conducted when living animals and beef enter our country, and the imports of animals and meats that are not in accordance with legislation or are found to be infected are not permitted. As an additional measure for BSE disease, 5 per cent of the animals imported into our country are also being tested, while in importing beef, all the animals where meat is acquired in the exporting country are being tested for BSE and are allowed to come to Turkey if necessary. Regarding the basic proposal for the rights of tobacco engineers (6/1872): there is no difference between the tobacco technology engineers and other engineers in our ministry in terms of their right of identity. Mr. Silver's main proposal (6/1611) is to declare a disaster zone because of the heavy winter conditions of our provinces of Mush, Van, Bitlis, Erzurum and Ağrım and Ağrı, and to support farmers who deal with agriculture, livestock from the agricultural insurance fund: The Afet region and transport related issues are not among our ministry's duties, as part of the government-funded agricultural insurance practices launched in 2006, and 50 percent of the policy price is covered as a grant, as well as the insurance risk of producers in all of our provinces, as in Turkey. In this scope, in 2012, the motion was asked to pay a premium of $745,000 in Ağar, 409,000 euros in damage payment; the payment of a premium of $728,000 in Bitlis, and the payment of 1.5 million in damages; the payment of $1.6m in premiums in Erzurum, the payment of $3.9m in damages; the payment of $449,000 in compensation, $11.6m in damages paid in the van. In addition, according to our ministry, we have significant agricultural support for these provinces, as of November 2003-2013, 560m euros were paid to Ağrı (Billis) as of November, $222.1 million, Erzuruma $651.5m euros, Mus.3m euros, Vana 752 million in non-inflicted agricultural support. Mr. Öğdan (6/1643), 6/1663 (6/1667), (6/1772), (6/1809), (6/1810), (6/1823), (6/1823), (6/1827) and (6/1907) main proposals for animalry support in the provinces of Agri and Muş (6/1663), related to the proposals for 6/1772 (6/189), (6/189), totalling in November 2010-2013, Radahan (6/1827) and (6/1907) of the main proposals of Ardahan, Iğdir, 55,000 million euros were paid to support animalism in the provinces of Ağrı and Muş. As for the payment of debts by agricultural insurance in the village of Çaşman, Kars Province, Kaçazman district of Çaşman Province: The Agricultural Insurance Pool TARSEM reported 34 damage detection reports to the TarSIM Pool in connection with insuranceed animals in Kars Province of Kağazman County, but most of the damage reports have been determined by the TARSIM appraisers have been caused by juvenile damage, as a result of the examination, but the compensation payment is part of the disease that has been made by our veterinary control institutes. In 2013, Ruam, cattle tuberculosis, bruselloz, sheep and goat brusellozu, cattle plague, African plagues, bird flu, rabies, and spate disease are part of the compensated disease in the areas set by our Ministry. In connection with the fish deaths of fish in Lake Asböşaş, Kars Province, and the Ardahan Posof district of Lake Armutveren, Lake Asboğa Lake: On 16 April 2012, our Sarıkamish District Directorate was analyzed by the Ministry of Posof County based on reports of fish deaths in the village of Posof district of Armutveren on 24 April 2012. The report found no threat to life in lake water. Investments aimed at processing, packing, packing, and storage of agricultural products are supported as part of the programme for Supporting Rural Development Investments, which started 50 per cent in 2006, to help farms and fruits to be sold in packaging. So far, 1,611 facilities for the processing and packaging of plant products have been completed, $333m in grant payments. This project will continue until 2015, and investments in packing fruits and vegetables will be supported. In 42 counties, investments in processing, packing and marketing of fruit vegetables are also supported by the IPARD Programme and are also supported by 50%. We also have Ardahan Province as part of programmes supported by investments up to 1,250,000 euros. On the support of machine equipment purchases for 2011 in Ardahan: A total of 703 applications were submitted in 2011 in our Ardahan County Directorate, and the terms specified in the notification and application guide in the Official Gazette have been assessed. Each machine changes the application requirements for equipment and the rating criteria. In this case, the right to 314 people in Ardahan Province has been arranged. The machine has been paid a total of 786 new equipment and 4.9m euros for the machine from 2007 to today under equipment support. Mr. Youth (6/1677) is the main no. lou's motion: The Council of the Ministry between 2/6/2011-21/7/2011 has been audited by the controllers, as a result of the inspection, it has been filed a criminal complaint against Yunak Cumhuriyet Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, who insists on carrying out the necessary administrative measures, in the investigation report of the province of Çeltik, Gökpınar, the province of Konya Province, which has been held in accordance with the request of the Yunak Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. The case against termination by interested persons has been dismissed by the court, as well as three new board members elected by co-op partners at the usual co-op board meeting of 19/1/2013 have begun their duties and the measures are over. Mr. Dedeoğlu's (6/1701) original no. lu and Mr. Halaman ( 6/1941) are the main no. The question proposals are: there have been significant regulations and improvements in agricultural loans over the past decade, in order for our farmers to provide the need for financing in proper conditions, but in 2013, interest reductions have been imposed at between 25 per cent and 100 per cent in the range of the operating area. Subsidies of agricultural loans have been expanded, credit limits have been increased. Business loans are due from 18 months to 24 months, investment loans are due from five to seven years. Regarding the support and incentives for the development of small animalism of Mr. Halaman: As of 2006, domestic animalism was supported by a mother, goat support, and support per animal for $18 was raised to 20 euro per year in 2013. For the first time, more support premiums have been initiated for goat and sheep's milk than for cow's milk. Again, small-sized animal breeding and nutritionalism were credited for zero interest in 2010. The main proposal for development of geothermal greenhousery (6/1821) of Mr. Durmaz (6/1821) is related to questions of direct use of geothermal energy in 78 countries around the world; Turkey has been shown in the world in terms of direct use of geothermal energy in heating; it will be done in the first five places, according to the ministry's initial study of the geothermal province of Yozgat, in which our geothermal potential is high in 11 pilot provinces, in which geothermal energy has begun to increase its use in subfold production activities. The production of greenhouses using alternative energy sources such as geothermal, biogas, solar energy is supported by 50% as part of rural development support. So far, 253 projects have been supported by $50.3 million. Regarding food controls, Mr Dedeoğlu's main proposal (6/1850): Food control and audit numbers have been significantly increased in the last decade. Ten years ago, there were around 1,500 food inspectors and 39,000 audits, while in 2012 the number of inspections was increased to 4,732. As a further punishment from 2012, those who risk the health of our people and produce contaminated, altered foods, which are guaranteed to be forged and pressed, are announced on the web page as an additional punishment. So far, 198 parties have been publicly exposed to the product. The main proposal of Mr. Öğüt (6/1905) is for banning tobacco planting in Mush. The procedures for the production of tobacco and tobacco products of our country, the domestic and external purchases and sales of our country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Eker, our hour is up. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Right, Mr. Shooter, Mr. Young, Mr. Dedeoglu, they're asking for further explanations of the questions you've answered. If you'd like to make further explanations of these questions, let's end them that way. I'll give you the extension accordingly. Now, Mr. Right, here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0067par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. As soon as the Kazova farmers heard from the Minister, they phoned us. They say that our income from the products we've produced this year has not been sufficient for our debts, and foreclosures are coming to us. Plus, we used an animal loan. We can't pay the installments of the loans we've received. They want the Ministry of Agriculture to remove interest interest in agricultural loans and banks, restructure. They also state that the prices of diesel, medicine, fertilizer, seedling are too high and that they want to use it without VAT, without VAT. We want the Ministry's opinion on this. And, of course, there's a great deal of trouble with farming in the coming period. If these debts don't be paid off, if the interest doesn't go away, I'm afraid that many farmers will have lost their land or their homes in the sink. I'd like to ask the Minister for an opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0068par0228	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0069par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, like the Van earthquake, there are similar places where natural disasters occur. For example, the districts of Mersin, Anamur and Bozyaz were affected by the storm; the regions of Mersin, Erdemli, Kazanlı were affected by the flood. The situation of our farmers who can't get agricultural insurance here is pathetic. Because they were not supported, they were unable to pay their debts, and their small land and homes were sold by execution. There's really a lot of poor farmers. Will you help these farmers? Otherwise, there will be suicides, and I know many farmers who are on the verge of suicide. I had to give that warning. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0070par0233	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0071par0235	Thank you. Sir, my question was never answered. It's already a habit of AKP ministers, not answering the questions we're asking, taking the business elsewhere. I don't even know the government like that. I'm also ashamed of the recent events in Diyarbakir. The AKP people are trying to remove the secular state of the Republic of Turkey and divide it. I'm going to bore them, especially Recep Erdogan. They can't afford it.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0072par0238	Mr. President, there's no such thing as dirty.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0071par0239	Let them know that the secular Republic of Turkey is not unclaimed. This state can't be broken, it'll be torn apart.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0072par0240	Mr. President, don't allow this rudeness.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0071par0241	But let them go forth as rulers, and let them answer Us with a straight answer. And they're not answering. We're also asking the question, but just to, you know, get these conversations. I'm afraid they're not answering the question. Those who sit during such a government are also out of line. Let them answer our questions properly.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0073par0242	You're out of order!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0074par0243	Mr. Young, please, I'd like to ask you to choose more proper words.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0073par0244	You're the one who's out of line. You've been sitting here for 30 years for nothing.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0075par0245	The proper speech is used against those who act properly, against the rulers. Those who betray this country can't be spoken properly.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0074par0246	Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0076par0247	Mr. President, thank you. Kahramanmarash is an agricultural city, particularly one of the number of agricultural cities in Turkey on wheat, rice, cotton and peppers. Unfortunately, in recent years, our farmer has been very miserable. With the cost of the seed, gas prices, tractor prices, and all of the labour inputs, our farmer is in a very difficult position, and many of our land is covered in dams, but our watering ducts have not been built, so our land has not been watered down. The most obvious example of these is Turkishoglu Plains waiting for irrigation channels. Madam Secretary has answered the questions we just asked, thank you. However, he declared that five kilometers of the watering of the Guided Dam had been done, and that it would continue until 2016 and until further years. We only have one request as heroes: be with the farmer, be with animalism.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0077par0251	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0078par0253	Mr. President, thank you. Thanks to our Minister, they've answered our questions. Lately, for the last twenty- thirty days, the harvest of oranges, citrus, in our area, was lemons, tangerines. Usually, our Kozan's livelihood is built on the bonanza gardens, but nowadays he's not worth a citrus, he's got no money, no money, no money. Why is that? Is it foreign trade? We'd appreciate it if Mr. Secretary could give us a proper answer to that, tell us why he didn't pay for it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0079par0256	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Should I come to the stand? You can answer from the stand if you want. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Right, of course, what Mr. Right has been saying in general about the Kazova region and the fact that farmers don't pay their debts, that's what I just said across Turkey. Individually, of course, there are differences, but when we look at the loans that have been paid in Turkey over ten years, and they've been given back rates -- I've just mentioned that when we answer the questions -- but I'll tell you one more time -- the farmer gets about 250 million, 257 million dollars a decade ago -- in the Bank of Zairat -- he could pay 38 percent of that back, not 17 billion -- and he's getting back 17 billion per cent of it today, not 17 billion. When we look at agricultural loan co-ops, we see that ten years ago, he used 200-plus million lira loans again, and in 70 percent, it's a return rate. Today, again, about 5 billion...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0080par0264	Mr. Secretary, the guarantors are in jail... Will you excuse me? Tell me that... GEDA, NO TRANSLATION AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER Where are the sponsors? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER NOW... You're taking it up to the sponsors. You robbed his house. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER, I'M GONNA... It's the high return... Yes, now that it's 71 percent agricultural...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0081par0274	There are private banks, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0082par0275	Mr. Secretary, if there's a 98 percent refund, why are you taking it through execution? Let me tell you. So, the answer I'm about to give is that you may not like it politically, and I have no objection to that.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0081par0277	We like it if it's true. But these are the government's...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0083par0279	There are now 200,000 fugitives. GEDA, MEHMET MEHDI EKER, MY... Most of these are sponsor loans... These are the numbers that we're going to face if we go to court, if we go anywhere, if we go to court. Mr. Secretary, then why is the foreclosure coming? The banks and the agricultural loan co-ops are all open, 97%. Look, agriculture... 97 percent of agricultural loan co-ops. All the inclusive guarantors are now in foreclosure, Mr. Secretary. Now, Dear Congressman, as an individual, not a farmer's loan from another bank... Mr. Secretary, don't you see this? If you bring all the relationships in his life, all of his business activities, and make it look like a farming activity and a farmer's loan, it doesn't fit with compassion. Mr. Secretary, due to the zero interest loan... People know it, the farmer knows it, everybody knows it. Here's our record: agriculture bank... They can't sell the cow for $3.5 billion right now. Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0084par0294	Go ahead, go ahead. Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0083par0296	But Mr. Secretary, you're not informing me correctly! You're not getting it right! There's always talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, Look, now...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0085par0299	This isn't a wiretap. You have to listen, Mr. President. Congressman, if you're asking questions, you'll listen, if you mean to eat grapes.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0083par0301	But you have to answer correctly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0085par0302	He's already asking, so he's listening. If you say, "Let's not talk to the Minister, let's ask him a question, and stop him from answering" or something, it doesn't mean you're right to have too much of a voice.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0086par0304	You're giving false information, Mr. Secretary. When you yell at me, it doesn't mean you're right in any way. You asked the question, and I'm telling you the truth.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0087par0306	That's not the right thing to do! It's not right! Well, that's true, but you'd like that, but I don't know about that. The citizen is making a phone call. He says it's not true. As the citizen assesses it, the citizen considers it at certain times and says if he likes it. He's considering it, he's considering it, he's almost there.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0088par0311	We're the representatives of the nation here. What are we here for? It says so then. In the polls... now, in a few months, the polls will be placed in front of the citizen, where he will make the citizen's evaluation.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0087par0313	He's valuing...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0088par0314	We do, but you... Now, about loans in Turkey, about farmers' loans, about agriculture bank loans, we've now drawn interest between zero and 8 per cent. We took over 59 percent, took over 59 percent interest.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0089par0316	And you got the gas for $1,300! The farmer, at 59 per cent interest, was borrowing 68 per cent interest from farm loans, 68 per cent...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0090par0319	They were more content, they were paying.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0091par0320	How much did you get for the diesel, the fertilizer, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0092par0321	Mr. Secretary, I've given you ten more minutes, but I'll give you five more minutes. Please answer...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0093par0322	Sir, but the Minister has spoken for an hour and a half. It's been an hour and 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0092par0323	No, sir, it's been an hour and ten minutes. Four or five minutes of this went by with questions. Now, I'll give the Minister five more minutes to explain.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0093par0325	What would have happened if we'd had them read the questions? He's not answering... Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, from time to time, we also brought in government-funded insurance in the law regarding TARSIM. In 2005, we took out the law, the Supreme Assembly here, we launched it on June 1st of 2006, and each year we added a new risk. In the beginning, for example, the risk of frosting was applied only at 10 per cent in Turkey. We've introduced this to all of Turkey since 2007. Don, it's full, it's flood, it's all the risk, the storm, the earthquake, the animal death, etcetera. Now, we're supporting a citizen who's getting insurance at 50%, so if he's getting insurance at $100, we're giving him $50 for free.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0094par0329	We know that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0095par0330	What's going on with the uninsured? GIDA, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER It was a system that Turkey has been trying to implement since 1935, and we created it in 2005, and we started it.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0096par0333	But the farmer doesn't have any money so he can get insurance! So far, I've told you, some of our citizens don't get it either through inheritance or property issues. We take that into consideration, when faced with certain risks, when faced with disaster, for example, in 2013... Hatay suffered two years in a row, Mr. Secretary. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER IN 2013... Mr. Secretary, how much did you pay? Every year, we, again, faced disasters, frozen, full, this year, we've already issued a general decree like that, even if it's under the insurance of our citizens, and we're already going to delay their debt. So, here... As interest...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0097par0340	How much did you pay for the interest, Mr. Secretary? No, that interest is never above inflation. It's just a matter of expenses, etcetera.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0098par0342	Mr. Secretary, my question is about the uninsured, the uninsured...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0097par0343	Hatay, Mr. Secretary, Hatay... Mr. Young said they don't answer my question because they're wrong because there's one here. He's got a motion, and I've read all about it. I've told you the whole process, the audit, the court, the outcome of the court, all of it in all knowledge, about the removal of the President of the Suction Co-op, and the appointment of trustees.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0099par0345	But it's because I won. You took out the winner. Your own man...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0100par0346	You've given your answer, haven't you, Minister? Two, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey and the government respect the unity and unity of the Republic of Turkey more and more than ever in the history of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0099par0348	The situation in Diyarbakir is obvious!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0101par0349	Mr. President, please advise him to answer the questions. If it's not teasing, it's... It is possible to develop a sense of belonging in the entire 76 million citizens to ensure the unity and unity of the Republic of Turkey. When you don't develop a sense of belonging, when you don't build love among citizens, when you don't treat it with justice and law, your citizen is not loyal to you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0099par0351	You're taking it somewhere else. That's what we're doing. Turkey cares deeply about domestic peace and international peace, and it regulates all its practices, all its policies, and today in the Republic of Turkey, our citizens are closer to peace and security than ever, in general, and live in peace and security. I'll tell you that in particular. Don't those murdered boys mean anything to you? Is it a peace of mind to take young people out of their homes until night and morning?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0102par0354	You can do what the PKK wants to do, and you can sell it to the nation! In fact, the PKK knows who, soldiers, somehow supports it, and the citizens know it. He knows, he knows, he knows! So if you want to keep him out of it, don't confuse him at all. If you mix it up, something else will come out of it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You were the one who had secret meetings at the Ataturk Forest Farm! You're the one who planned Habur, at the Ataturk Forest Farm! You're the one who made that mess happen, aren't you? The chief architects of the scandal that led to Habur. He also planned for the Ataturk Forest Farm. Are you the Minister or are you the PKK's thing! KIDA, MEHMET MEHMEDI EKER (Secondly) Who provided the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militants who fed feces to people in prisons. Don't take care of them. First talk about rights, law, first establish rights and law. With rejection and denial policies, your understanding has brought this nation to the brink of division. (AK PARTY) We have come up with an understanding that will unite this nation, which will unite Turk, Kurd, Arab, Circeşe (Arab), Persian, and Persian, and Turkey will bring unity and unity to a better place.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0103par0362	Tell me about the cow, the cow... the cows didn't pay.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0102par0363	You go to Barzani!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0103par0364	You're the minister of Barzani!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0102par0365	You're barzani marketing. Are you an agent of influence here? Are you Barzani's representative? Barzani's agent of influence...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0104par0366	Thank you, Mr. Eker. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The question motions have been answered. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. No commission. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. No commission. It's been postponed. We will resume talks where we left off from the meeting of the Turkish Prime Ministerate for Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration of Turkey and the Ministry of Communications and Information Technologies of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Azerbaijan Republic between National Television and Radio Television Publishing Areas where it is appropriate to ratify the Technical Service Convention and Technical Service Convention. The commission and the government are in place. Now, the 16th article, dated 13/11/2013, was addressed on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on article 1. No promises. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] (x) 105 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 16th Union Charter, dated 13/11/2013. Congressmans, the clear vote of Bill 105: ▪ Number of votes used: 204 [[x]] Ismail Kashdemir Mine Leuk White So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will now resume talks with Yozgat MP Yusuf Başer and Isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilgic and 11 MPs with the Proposal of Law on Public Contraction Law, Bayınlik, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. In the 17th Article of the 17th Union dated 14/112013, the vote of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi and his friends failed to reach the number of votes. Now, I'm going to have you reread the motion, and I'm going to put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1784 Main (SS 493) We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of the 3rd Amendment to the Public Contract Act be changed in the following way. Article 3- These provisions are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Mustafa Moroğlu Aykut Erdoğdu Haluk Eyidoğan Turgut Dibek Malik Ecder Özdemir Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Now, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I put the whole proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0105par0421	It's a promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0106par0422	You've taken a vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0104par0423	Before voting on the entire proposal, Hatay MP Haci Bayram Türkoğlu in favour of specifying the color of the game
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0107par0425	Mr. President, I have made a commitment in favour of the proposal for amendments to Article 493, Article 4734 of the Public Contraction Act. I salute you all. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 493 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 17th Union's Charter, dated 14/11/2013. It's the Supreme Election Board that proposes the law. It's the Supreme Election Board that owns it, runs it, follows its outcome. According to Law No. 4734, which is already in force, there was a pre-approved ballot, a 20-point ballot, a ballot, which was not carried out during the period, due to the interim elections. The change is now being made by the Supreme Election Board, or by the presidential council chairmans, which he authorized, if time and time are not enough due to the time and time congestion in the Constitutional presidential election and the possible election for the 2014 presidential election, then it is also a matter of supplying the materials needed directly through procurement. This was considered the main commission by the Commission for Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism, where it was adopted. I wish the law to be good, and I hereby salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0108par0431	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Against Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0109par0435	Mr. President, look, this is abuse. We just didn't discuss any other deals. Now how can they argue against their own proposals? So let's have some honesty here.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0110par0436	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I've taken it against myself...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0111par0438	Excuse me, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0112par0439	This Parliament is not run by dishonest people.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0111par0440	Mr. Young, this has been requested before. So please... Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0113par0442	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've taken it against myself. The Republican People's Party does this a lot, especially Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0114par0444	It's not a simultaneous thing.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0113par0445	But what I found was that when I went over the law to see if there was anything really against it, when I examined the proposal, there was nothing against it.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0114par0447	Against, against...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0113par0448	Indeed, opposition and power have done serious work on this law. I'd like to thank the General Assembly. I offer you the acceptance of the law or rejection of the General Assembly, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0115par0450	Thank you. I put the whole proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0116par0452	Mr. President, I've just received a promise from Mr. Orator. He said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." There's been a stack in the minds of those who have been watching us. If you'll excuse us, we'd like to answer for two minutes.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0117par0453	Sir, there's no two-minute response to 30 seconds of conversation.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0116par0454	Kamer Young will come out.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0118par0455	Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0119par0458	Mr. President, look, you gave me two minutes without picking on...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0120par0459	Two minutes to 30 seconds!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0119par0460	Anyway... now it's the AKP people who are abusing here. I don't abuse the way I do things. If I spoke against the law here, I'd say something serious. For one thing, there's a lot of cheating going on in the election.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0120par0461	What trick?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0119par0462	We have received reports that millions of printed ballots are missing in the last election -- look, the AKP people -- are missing. These ballots are taken by AKP people, they bring them, they distribute them to citizens, they print the AKP seal, the citizens who go to the polls bring them in, they put them in the envelope, they bring in the blank ballot. That's abuse. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] If you want to make an honest choice, if you want to make an honest and honest choice, it's the work of decent and honorable people.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0120par0465	You're calling the Supreme Election Board a dick?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0119par0466	So, let's make an honest and honest choice, so let's stop the rigged election. Let's cut this out, bring in a law like this. What are you going to do with this law tomorrow? You're going to bring in millions of printed ballots, you're going to distribute them to AKP agencies, they're going to deliver them to some voters, they're going to give them these blank ballots, they're going to print the letter on the AKP seal, they're going to bring it back, they're going to give it back. Here, if you're brave, let's make an honest choice. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, because of the 10% threshold here, there are currently 58 members of your group, members of parliament, who are the Shagils of the Fuzuli. Come on, let's get this 10% dam up. If it weren't for the 10% threshold, you wouldn't be in power now. Today you divide the state of the Republic of Turkey as you are, destroying the state of the Republic of Turkey. Erdoğan is holding, and Barzani is saying to Barzani: "President of Kurdistan." The president of Kurdistan means to ratify the Kurdish state in northern Iraq. Know what you're saying. But, of course, the ignorant, the cahoot, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know what it means. Speak on purpose. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0121par0471	You've been sitting here for 30 years, talking nonsense for 30 years!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0122par0472	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0123par0473	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0122par0474	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0123par0475	Mr. President, he has insulted both our Prime Minister and our group president and the esteemed MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0122par0476	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't allow any more bullying.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0123par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The person who's talking here has been talking about election tricks so much that it's like he's been cheating his whole life. He tells us: you did this, you brought compasses like this, you did this with fake seals, you took fake compasses here... ▪ For God's sake, it tells us things we never dreamed of! I mean, you know, there's an expression, you know, that when he was saying his circus, he would say his own thing, not the whole thing, he'd know what it was.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0124par0482	The opposite, the opposite. While he's presenting the checaat, the circusatin...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0123par0483	She's a Shecaatini! Look, dear friends, when we look at the AK PARTY group and other lawmakers, a trick like this probably wouldn't have occurred to a normal citizen. He's tried to express every trick he's ever done in his life here. He already had a famous hay factory. Using influence to buy free land from Aksaray, in exchange for the Instigation Act, and there's no telling who it's supposed to go through a bank channel.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0125par0485	Don't mix the straw with the handle!
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0123par0486	...in your opinion, a week after you've been elected MP, a 5 per cent stake in the Vice President of the Board knows best how to cheat in that way. It is no one's place to bring such a stain to the AK PARTY MPs. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Plus, look, the Supreme Election Board is making these choices. The person speaking here at the moment has insulted the Supreme Election Board. The High Election Board will suppress the filigree ballots, which is the law, which is to print the envelopes, to seal the seals. They know where to print it, but the person whose life has been cheated has nothing else to think about. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0126par0491	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0127par0493	I guess he's been cheating his whole life... and the hay... now, I told this Mustafa...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0126par0495	Here you go, Mr. Young. Please don't allow any more bullying.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0127par0498	If my life had been a trick, at least, Mustafa, a demon like you would have always found my tricks! Now, anyway, I'm a man who knows what you are.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0128par0499	Mr. President, watch your language.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0129par0500	The sin belongs to the one who has the say.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0127par0501	I've always struggled with honesty in my life. I've been on this stand for seven semesters because I've been struggling with honesty in my life.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0130par0503	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0127par0504	Also, now, dear friends, look, there are examples of this. The municipalities of the AKP are forcing you to choose; you will deliver an empty ballot, you will cast it away, you will cast it away, you will bring it to nothing. I say -- let's face it, I'm doing this trick -- let's avoid these tricks, make honest choices. Mustafa, you don't understand, you don't know what honesty is, because I know what you're doing. Besides, I had nothing to do with the hay mill. That's what happened. Mustafa Bey is very vocal about this hay. I love this straw, too, Mr. Mustafa, on this bench. Don't worry, I'll split your winter stock. He's still bringing them. I had nothing to do with the factory and the mabrica. I did a little thing for a friend. I couldn't help but notice that in your time of power, I sold it for damages.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0131par0508	How did you get the money?
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0127par0509	If you don't prove that I took him on my parliamentary forum, you're a mufter! If you're a man, let's prove it if you're a decent person. If I had a penny of influence there, I'm an asshole.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0131par0510	It was in the papers. You got it a week after the congressman's election.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0127par0511	If you don't use it... it's the bastard who framed me. So if he's an honorable man, let's investigate. In fact, did I or did I not gain a penny there? Friends, come in, you're the ruling party. So you're incapable of fighting me legitimately, and you're crazy that I'm talking about your thefts, your corruption. You're taking away my right to speak of these thefts and corruption here. If you're brave, let's go out here for an hour and talk about these things, the corruption you've committed, the thefts...
tbmm-2013-11-19sit03spe0132par0514	Thank you, Mr. Young. [[Continue]] I submit the whole proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The offer has been accepted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-11-19sit04spe0132par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 18th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations on the bill and proposals. We will begin talks with the European Parliament and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Affairs Commission Report on the Approval of the Protocol on Police Education Between the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions are not available in other tasks, the decision is made to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (November 20th 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
