tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about the problems of the construction industry in Denizli. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0002par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of the construction industry in Denizli. I salute the grand jury. I made a promise on October 30th about security issues. I also mentioned the problems with the building license and the housing license. When the request came from the citizen, I felt the obligation this time to bring up the problems of the construction industry. After that, it happened; it's the master's office, the license, etc., and so on, the AKP has disgraced Denizli. Everyone's saying something with their mouths. Every official has something to say. Not with the MP the prime minister said, not with the minister's group, not with the vice president, not with the vice president. Disgraceful, disgraced the country. The industry's got a big problem. First of all, the apts. I'll bring this up again tomorrow with a separate press conference. What's the problem with the industry? There's postmodern custody at the city hall in Denizli. Not without one person's approval, that's the main problem. The mayor can't even go on a billboard alone. Construction costs have increased. Why? First, cement prices went up, concrete prices went up. How much did 80 Turkish liras go up to? $145. Increase, 81 percent. Apartment prices have also gone up. There's already a qualified worker problem. There's a flat worker and an engineer; there's no one in between. Of course, that's what happens when you destroy art school, you build a county mansion. You also destroyed girl art. There's already too much delay in commitments. There are architects and engineers who sign 200 projects a year. It's practically impossible. The best they can do is four projects a month. Engineers sign 10 per cent of the designated fees. High school graduates solve projects on computers and get engineers to sign them. What's this all about? He's on his feet. There's a big problem with post-sale services. The buyer is weak, the contractor is in trouble. Competition continues to be a problem. He's not telling Denizli the truth, AKP. The status was promised, no; the speed train was promised, no; the highway was promised, no; the hospital had already fled to Manisa. In Denizli, it was written in the column where the moral police would control it. What did the AKP do to a country that used to be famous for its industry? You built these apartments, if you don't have a license, if you don't have a business license, if you don't have a building permit, if you don't have a building permit, if you use them badly, they're all in the AKP era. Now, according to TÜİK figures from 2003-2012, the building license is 62,000, 11% of Turkey. At the same time, Denizli was allowed to use nearly 49,000 buildings, and there are still 13.700 apartments under construction. The apartments are higher than Izmir, as square meters, as apartments. Average apartment values are higher than Izmir, and Istanbul is very close. The building inspectors' problems are growing, and every day they're looking for new legislation. The municipality is at odds with NGOs, and the area of the Site will not be destroyed. Denizli City Hall can't go back to its original settings. Why can't he come back? He's got himself into a lot of trouble. Why? From there, they could only choose the new mayor. Is stealing a transfer city council member and mayor? Then you'll end up like this, ruining the country. What would become of the province that is modeled with its industry? I don't want to say what the Prime Minister said. There's no such thing as a disgrace. The AKP, unfortunately, has put Denizli in this position. What's the city standing on anyway? He's standing on a transfer. The private administration was the same way; they couldn't afford it there, they transferred one person, they've been running it for four years. It's not truth, it's not honesty. Is the country run by transfer? That's all I want to express for now. The City of Deniz is already deciding from the city council where to buy cars with no price. What kind of city is that? Thank you, my respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, who wants to talk about Malatya's problems.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to apologize to my friends here in Kaves. I don't take the word of the governor of Adana yesterday as an insult. I'm here again to apologize to the crows.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0005par0031	Why are you apologizing?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0006par0032	Let the AKP people apologize.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0004par0033	Dear MPs, I have made a promise today regarding Malatya's problems, but I can't fit Malatya's problems in five minutes. So today, I'm just going to talk about the hospital. Last week, I spoke to him about the TEDAS, in Malatiah. TEDAS privatisation, an epic privatisation of languages, is a privatisation of world history. Of course, not in a positive way, but in a negative way. It's a privatized treatment with the money in it. Last week, I was in Malatya, the precious MPs, the Malatians who were tired of electricity. When you say electricity, the Malatians cry, hear a touch of it. The Malatians weep about it, and the Malatians sing about it, and shout about it. So, what is the power doing in Malatya? He too is crying; the valued MPs are crying, the MPs are crying, and the AKP government is crying. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, here's to today's talk. The AKP execution I'm going to tell you about today will turn into a stone. Dear friends, there were two hospitals in Malatiah, one east of the city, and the other west of it. In recent years, a study has begun to build a new hospital for Malatya. The AKP has not consulted anyone about the location of the hospital to which the Turkish Cypriot would build. The Malatians, the rightist leftist, all objected, saying his location would put Malatya in a difficult position due to traffic problems, but unfortunately, the AKP blocked its ears on this issue. But there's been an agreement on this hospital. According to this agreement, two hospitals in Malatya would be given, closed, and replaced by a hospital on Malatya Sugar Factory land. The new hospital's been built. He's been serving in the past few days. Our topic today is not about the shortcomings of this hospital. However, valuable lawmakers have been closed to the former SSC, the State Hospital, which has served Malatya, who has served for four years, and the former SEC, which has served since 1954. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, they took 2 and gave us 1. Who did they make this deal for, the Malatians? No. Do the Malatians know about this deal? No. Do the Malatians benefit from this agreement, do the Malatians benefit from it? No. As in every game, as in every privatisation, there is only one institution's profit, which is the profit of TOKI. What did the Malatians get out of this deal, folks? They took 2, they gave 1, see, they got 2, they gave 1. What did the AKP do? He's asleep. One MP constantly criticises the Republican People's Party, the opposition. Dear friends, last Sunday, the Malatians, their right-wing left-winger, those who had no objection had a rally in the hospital garden. So I promised them at that rally, I said: I will address your problems here, your injustices at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey tomorrow. 47 neighborhoods, 27 villages, 2 districts. They say if the Malatya State Hospital is closed, we will be victims. Dear friends, this place was built as a cure for trouble, not for TOKI AVM. They call it. The people who live in this area are walking to and from the hospital, but many of them will have to drive two vehicles to and from the new hospital. You guys may be dry, but two cars means the Malatian doesn't go to that hospital. Again, the merchant who has been here will have to close down businesses that have been eating bread for many years, and have been hoovering their children for years, and teaching their children. Was there any study of the tradesman involved in this matter? No. Dear friends, don't shut this hospital down for him. They say, "We're no longer docile sheep." They say, "We've given, we've given, we've given, we've given, we've given, we won't give." They say, "We won't go to the hospital 10 kilometers away." They say, "We don't own it." They say, "We don't own it." A Malatian says we don't own it. There are five AKP MPs, but they don't take care of us. We also call on Alazig MPs, Alazig AKP MPs: "Take care of Malatya." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, the state of power is Malatya. I'm asking everyone not to close that hospital because it's a 64-year-old hospital. I believe you'll be sensitive about this, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0007par0046	Thank you. Mr. Aghababa, the Kavas have been given a say in the matter, but I can't give it to them due to legal impropriety. If any of our lawmakers ask for a non-responsibility statement, or, Mr. Group Vice President, they can speak for themselves.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0004par0048	The Home Secretary can talk, too.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0007par0049	The third non-responsored statement belongs to Konya MP Ayşe Türkmenoglu, who wants to speak on behalf of World Children's Rights Day.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0008par0052	Mr. President, I've taken a vow out of the agenda a week earlier on November 20th, World Children's Rights Day. I hereby salute the High Council. The international document on child rights today is the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, adopted by the United Nations on November 20, 1989 and approved by 193 countries. Starting from this date, the world began to be called Children's Rights Day on November 20th. Children's rights are a universal concept used to define all rights, such as education, health care, housing, protection against physical, psychological, or sexual exploitation, which all children around the world are born with, legally or morally. We see that children's workers are being used in many countries, especially in children's rights, and they are being run below the stairs, and unfortunately, their families are supporting it. I would like to take this opportunity to say that children are the trust of God, and I think it's a human virtue to defend their rights anywhere in the world. Children's rights are a subject that needs to be discussed within the concept of human rights. Human rights violations that exist in many parts of the world today continue to be broader and larger in the child's size. According to Amnesty International's data, child rights violations are greater, along with negative factors such as labour exploitation, pornography, violence, illegality in less developed and developing countries. Unfortunately, a very clear painting still exists before the eyes of the world, with the same kind of explanations from almost every official. However, children's abuses do not end in different ways. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, children, unlike adults, have physical, physiological behavior and psychological properties. Because of their constant growth and development, children need to be able to maintain healthy care. In particular, at the point that everything is accessible to children's health, I can't help but say that our government's recent practices have been carried out. In this period, all children are covered with legal provisions so that they can benefit from all kinds of health benefits regardless of their family's economic situation or whether they have social security until they are 18 years old. It's important to know that in particular. We know earlier that those of us who were not in Turkey's Retired Ark or members of the USSR could be paid for health care from outside, and the potential negatives that would happen would scare and frighten our people. He had a lot of fears, a lot of worries about tomorrow. I think it's a very important step. I think it's a great comfort to know that at least when we get sick, we can get the quality health care we need together with our children. Again, children are the most affected in wars. This also happens in Turkey as soon as possible, right under our noses. Many of the children who come with refugees from Syria are without parents or parents, and this is still in front of the world, and children are victims of wars. They can be left in chaos like this without their safety in front of the world, unguarded, without being able to satisfy their needs, without being able to stand on their own feet. At this point, I especially think the world and Turkey should be more sensitive to human rights and child rights. Especially as a mother, we need to show our children -- I won't say, "I'm not sure" -- in the best possible terms, we need to show superior protection, care, and love.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0009par0058	Then take back the reservations you put in international contracts about children. He put your reservations on international contracts about Kurdish children.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0008par0059	We were all children at one time, and as children, we know that we need love, we need attention, we need parents, we need the attention of the people around us. On this occasion, especially recently, arrangements were made for these children who were throwing stones.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0009par0061	Tell the truth, not words.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0008par0062	At the point where they were children and they were led to crime and those who led to crime were punished, you know, there were regulations. We want to embrace our children with the compassion of the state, we want them to have no problems, we want them to be equal in education, health, transportation, basic rights and freedoms, we make arrangements for that. I give thanks and respects to everyone who's done that kind of work.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 14th anniversary of the flat earthquake. On 12 November 1999, there was an earthquake in Düzce, which resulted in the death of 845 of our citizens. Again, seventy-three years ago, on 12 November 1941, there was an earthquake that resulted in the death of 40,000 of our citizens in Erzincan. We need a system, an understanding, a government that can no longer be the fate of our people, to run an earthquake as a process that does not cause loss of human and goods. Human history is the history of human domination. So natural events, natural disasters, are never fate. And with the understanding of the establishment of a much more effective government in Turkey against earthquakes and other natural disasters, I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who died in the earthquake, and to their relatives, I offer my patience and my condolences. I wish for a Turkey where there will be no more earthquakes and similar natural disasters. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. The 75th anniversary of the death of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic of Turkey, met Sunday. For this reason, I remember the Republic of Turkey today with gratitude and mercy for the Ata (Ada) who liberated Turkey and expelled the enemy from its homeland. Also, the 13th anniversary of the flat earthquake. This is the effort of the 57th government and a period in which it soon puts everyone into its dwellings. However, I ask God's mercy for both the flat earthquake and all our citizens who lost their lives in the earthquake before it, and I wish that Turkey would not experience such a disaster again.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. On the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the arrival of the Great Leader Ataturk, we once again remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. In addition, we, the AK PARTY Group, remember our citizens who died 14 years ago in the Düzce earthquake, which left our entire nation in deep sorrow. May His Holiness not show us such great suffering. Of course, many things must be done in this framework to prevent similar events from happening or to avoid the painful consequences of earthquakes. Turkey, unfortunately, faces a very serious stockpile of troubled housing, building stock; they need to be transformed, and we're talking millions of transformations. Of course, it's a very difficult job, because it's a problem that's come up as a savings of many years, but in recent years, there's been a lot of effort to make this transformation happen. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of earthquake-proof, weak-made buildings are falling down, and instead there's a lot of work being done to make it modern, earthquake-resistant housing, but you can appreciate that it's going to take time and resources to transform millions of houses like this, but we need to do it as fast as possible, because Turkey is a country that always has to live together with the earthquake truth. Once again, I wish our country would not face such suffering. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, you have a request again. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 75th anniversary of the death of Ataturk, we remembered him with great gratitude, respect, and mercy. We offer our respects, our thanks as the Republican People's Party Group to the Great Ataturk, in the belief that all the features of the Republic of Turkey, which he has given to our nation, the democratic and secular feature of the Republic, will live forever in the understanding of a liberal democracy that has been met with our democracy today. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, the Party of Peace and Democracy, wish once again to express my blessings and condolences to all those of our citizens who lost their lives on the anniversary of the Düzce earthquake, but also to those who lost their lives in the Van earthquake and all the earthquakes in Turkey. Today, along with those who lost their lives in the Van earthquake, there are also victims, and these victims face housing shortages today. Therefore, they have started a hunger strike. I say that the government must address this sacrifice at once, and that our victims, our citizens, must be settled in their homes as soon as possible, and I salute them all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ has asked for 1359, 1360, 1401, 1451, 1498, 1540, 1682, 1734, 1740, 1844, 1981, 2087, 2122, 2135, 2135, 2235, 2215, 2215, 2321, 1421, 1421, 1441, 1482, 1682, 1734, 1737, 1740, 1844, 1844, 1881, 2087, 2134, 2134, 2135, 2215, 2215, 2321, 2345, 2345, 2345, 2441, 2441, 24153, 2441, 2441, 2441, 24243, 2445, 2445, 243, 243, 243, 243, 243, 23... I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions to open the House in a row, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number of crimes and suicides in Turkey has increased for reasons such as poverty, unemployment, and, therefore, income shortages that have been increasing for many years. In the AKP's government, which has been going on for more than ten years, there has been no solution to these problems, and the problems mentioned have repeatedly increased. In parallel with this increase, there must be concrete solutions to the increasing crime and suicides. In order to determine what measures should be taken in order to prevent or minimize these events after the detection of increased crime and suicide incidents, for the reasons mentioned, we propose that Parliament investigate the Constitution under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution should be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] 16) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Ankara]] At the head of the state's assets, it is the duty to ensure peace and peace by securing human rights. However, the AKP government, which has ruled Turkey for nearly ten years, has not carried out this original task. Economic crises in the ten-year period have led to a significant increase in crime and guilt in society and suicides, such as the serious decline of purchasing power and the fact that our people have been dragged into a huge debt. A system in which citizens have no confidence in justice, which does not have enough economic power to live, results in crime and guilt and increased suicides, as well as increasing confidence in the state, with the rate of crime and guilt and suicide. So many people who try to live and take care of their children by trying to warm their children with a hair dryer, as the case is reflected in the case "Ayşe Paşalı trial," while the weakened male is first resorting to violence against women and even killing them or even resorting to begging or committing crimes, such as Emine Akçay. As has happened in many recent cases in the press, the number of fathers who killed family members first and then committed suicide is too great to care for their family. While such examples of public conscience may be possible to replicate, an important work must be carried out within the Turkish Grand National Assembly as the highest authority in the face of increased criminal and suicidal tendencies in our country. According to the years, it is of great importance to conduct parliamentary research to assess solutions as a result of a statistical examination of the increase in crime and suicides, as well as the increase in crimes and suicides that have shown variables and increases in crime and suicides. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Because of recent business accidents, deaths scare all workers and cause them to worry about their future. In fact, these are not occupational accidents, but work murders, because most of them are what happens after they happen. These are what we call deaths. It is imperative that the facts be brought to light by investigation. We submit to the adoption of our request for parliamentary research in order that the Constitution's results be shared with the public, according to Articles 104, 105, and according to Article 105. [[Eskişehir]] [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 5) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Balıkesir]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] 15) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tunceli]] [[Mughle]] 19) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] In Turkey in 2012, employees have lost their lives due to business accidents (job murders) because there are not sufficient security measures taken by employers. The right to live is the most important right to be blessed and protected. The 17th article of our Constitution maintains the right to live, while the 18th article states that it is necessary to impose a ban on forced labor and to regulate the working conditions in the 48th and continuity clauses in favour of the employees. Both the Labour Law and other laws have been tasked with organizing and improving the working conditions of employees. The government performs its duty by making laws, by inspecting businesses. In the past decade, however, the AKP-run state, a overwhelming majority government, has not even taken this matter seriously. In the last month, two workers in a shipyard in Istanbul-Tuzla, 10 workers in the Adana-Kozan Gökdere Bridge Dam Derivation Tunnel, 11 workers in the fire in construction of an AVM in Istanbul, 4 workers in the Burıkkale Amplification and Debug Facility, 4 workers in the Mihaluçü Bay Mine Company, Erzurum, 5 workers in Ashale TEDAŞ. The number of workers who have died in the last six months has been said to be 350. After these accidents, when asked, our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Faruk Çelik says that labour safety and labour health legislation are inadequate, and that a modern legislation must be made in accordance with the conditions of the day immediately. However, it is its duty to adopt legislation, and its party, the AKP, which is a overwhelming majority in parliament, is in power. Both Mr. Minister and his party, the AKP, insist on not making these laws, and they refuse to, because they have no policy for labor, for working, for the poor. For the reasons we count, the Civil Code is 104 and 105. We wish to open a parliamentary investigation under the terms of the pearl clauses, to issue a report on the deaths of the commission and the job accidents, and to determine who is responsible for them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, the work of awareness must be done in both control and consumption to combat counterfeit products. There's a special expertise and an obligation to act quickly on the control of counterfeit goods. This struggle can only make sense by organizing intensive awareness campaigns to explain to consumers the dangers of using such goods and by explaining to the public the manufacturers of counterfeit goods and dealers. In addition, punishments for those who produce such goods must be deterrents. In our country, we would like to ask for parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Administration, in order to investigate its effects on human health and the country's economy, to prevent counterfeit products from producing, marketing, housing entry and preventing free movement in the market. [[Erzincan]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 6) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 9) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Eskişehir]] The easy gains from counterfeit products in Turkey, the sweet profit in the market, caused almost everything to come out and spread. However, the real danger of this fake product market is that ruthless profit ambition has now become a threat to human health by disregarding human health. The forgery and imitation of almost every product are soon made into billions of easy - to - dosed profits, as well as a significant threat to public health. As fake products promote cancer and other diseases, these products also cause people to die directly and become sick. Another dramatic situation for Turkey is the consumer's desire for fake products, according to the eye. Instead of using the original because of poverty, our small-income people are knowingly taking and using counterfeit products because it's cheap. From honey to olive oil, even to medicine, many of the products that we can think of are in the market. Human health is not only endangered by these counterfeit products but also by the food we eat and the beverages we drink. According to research by the European Commission's Imitations Committee, OECD and the World Customs Agency, the world's rapidly growing counterfeit and counterfeit product market has reached $1 trillion. Fake and counterfeit products make up between 7 per cent and 10 per cent of global trade. Turkey is the third largest country in the illegal market with a 5 per cent market share. The counterfeit product market in Turkey is nearing $6 billion, according to reports by the Anti-Trafficking and Organised Crime Agency (KOM). When counterfeiting and smuggling are added to it, this Sunday is up to $15 billion. According to the latest research by the Marka Protection Group, 58% of consumers in our country prefer fake, fake or illegal goods. In addition to northern Iraq, illegal cigarettes from neighbouring countries, false alcoholic beverages that lead to blindness and death, cosmetic products allegedly prevent hair loss are causing serious skin disease. False perfumes cause serious problems in the lungs and kidneys, while counterfeiting products, such as cabbage soup capsules and pepper pills, are alleged to have caused weight loss. It's the same in the food industry. Consuming cheeses, soy oil and margarine, cheese cheese mixed with crumbled cheese gel, molded cheeses, honeys, olive oils, sausages, and soybeans are abundant in the market. A significant increase in cancer cases in our country has been seen as a result of the sale of these counterfeit products without any interference or supervision. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Commission for Public Economic Initiatives also has 1 membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office on Friday (November 15th 2013) are at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has four papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation, headed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Cemil Cicek, will make an official visit to Iraq to respond to the invitation of Iraqi Parliament Speaker Osama Al-Nuceyfi (Irake) for the event, according to the Constitutional Council of Turkey's 6th Amendment on the regulation of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0021par0287	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit01spe0020par0288	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0020par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision to vote for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the notice to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, accepted in advance.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0022par0004	No, no, no! Oh, come on! Where is it?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0023par0005	No, no, no! Tell me you're sorry! Get your feet up!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0020par0006	Mr. Lütfü, you can count if you want!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0023par0007	We've counted, 134 people. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament's 27-29th annual Summit of Women's Global Forum in Parliament (WIP) (WIP) (and again, on 26-27 November 2013, the European Commission is presented under the 9th Amendment to the European Development Days (EDD) Meeting of the European Commission (EDD) MP Tüslin Erkal Kara and İstanbul MP Binnaz Land for the participation of the International Assembly of Turkey under the 9th Amendment.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0024par0014	I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A seminar on the European Parliament (EP) for co-operation with the Western Balkans and Turkish parliaments in Brussels on 25-26 November 2013 will be held by the "Pre-Accession Actions Unit (PAAC), organised by the Belgian capital, "Economic Crisiss and Effects on the Enlargement of European Policys and Countries." The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0025par0023	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit02spe0024par0024	I'm going to vote for you, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0024par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough at the time of the draft vote for the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the notice to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Yes, there will be a vote on the electronic device as there is a disagreement between the clerk members. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, there are enough decision-making, the Turkish Grand National Assembly's thesis has been approved. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe shall submit its accession to the Parliamentary Environment and Interior Commissions Meeting, which will be held on 24-25 November 2013 in Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania, under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0026par0018	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0024par0019	You have a roll call. I'll take care of it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Akova, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Coach, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Iron, Mr. Silver, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Mumcu, Mr. Securityturk, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Tayan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Appointment accepted. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Tuesday 12/11/2013 (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On May 5, 2013, by Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy and his friends (2514 rows no. The parliamentary inquiry motion, which has been submitted to the Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the reasons for mandatory transports such as exiles in prisons, has been proposed to be taken before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the General Assembly's information and read in the presentations Tuesday (12/11/2013) and held in the same historic combination of talks. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for the support of the group's proposal, İdris Baluken, Bingol MP.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0027par0042	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on a group proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we've been trying to speak to you and share with you as much of the agenda as possible about finding a solution to the prisons that have been under the roof of this Parliament for a long time. So far, we've shared here proposals to set up a research commission around these agendas to study prisons over and over again, but unfortunately, we still haven't established a research commission as a result of the fact that neither the ruling AK PARTY nor the opposition parties haven't acted as one. Thus, problems in prisons continue to grow day by day. Now, we have repeatedly stated here that the reasons for all of these prisoners in prisons are in fact false grounds. I mean, if in a democratic law country, a state of law had taken steps to democratize its freedom of expression and organisation, we wouldn't have to talk about these problems here anyway. So, if the Law on Anti-Terrorism, which is still the biggest obstacle to democratisation in this country, had been lifted, if the Turkish Penal Code had been revised as part of the road cleaning of antidemocratic laws, area cleaning, we wouldn't be discussing this problem here already today; the prison doors would be opened, friends you held as political hostages would be back among us. You're not doing this. Falsely, with false indictments, with the testimony of confidential witnesses, you only keep people in prisons because they're doing political work, and you make prisons a place of abuse and torture, so to speak. Now we know what your friend will say on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. He's going to come in here and tell us how many new prisons were built during their reign, what conformist buildings were built in places. It's as if all of the problems in prison will be solved by a building built by the TOKI (TİKI) or by an advocacy contractor. Dear lawmakers, look, the current problems in prisons have now reached an intolerable point, and over the course of 11 years, your sins are increasing. Sin angels keep records of each and every one of you every day because of these bad practices in prison. In addition to the existing legislation, a separate pressure legislation has been implemented in each prison prison, especially after the breakout in Bingöl Prison. In almost every prison, people are wrongfully questioned, prisoners are kept under psychological pressure by the midnight ward raids, exiles, tortures are now in the form of a routine that is now understood in almost every prison. I was there the first day of the breakout in Bingol Prison. In Bingol Prison, after the escape, every prisoner in the prison was seized from their clothes to their blankets, toothbrushes to personal use items, and these materials were not given to the prisoners for days. The pillow, even the blanket, was not given to these prisoners who were considered potential criminals by the prison administration. Although the wards in Bingöl Prison were against regulations, the police and soldiers were raided at midnight with their rifle, where the prisoners were subjected to complete psychological pressure, physical abuse, and this practice that was launched in Bingol Prison increased, and was unfortunately carried from Van (also called "Siirt") to the prisons all over the country. I met with the escaped prisoners at Sincan Prison. After they went to court and gave their own statements, they spoke of inhuman, degrading practices in Sincan Prison. Every day the prison administration dares to conduct an interrogation by summoning these prisoners, as if it were a presumption. Each day, these friends, these prisoners, were exposed to a number of practices that would violate human dignity without searching, and because they were not interfered with these practices, prison administrations -- as I said, in almost all prisons in Turkey -- have unfortunately made all of these practices a routine. Now, despite all the trouble that's been going on, we're still facing the shame of the sick prisoners who are about to give their last breath in prison. Last week, the Human Rights Association posted updated figures. 144 patients from 562 heavy patients are standing at a limit that could die at any time. Some prisoners, some patients, are unable to perform any biological function, any biological function beyond a state where they can eat or breathe. We've met many times with the Justice Department, the government officials, and we've tried to bring them up in the General Assembly. So far, an attempt to remove the shame of these sick prisoners has unfortunately not been put into practice by this government. You have the will. So this is what we did in the third package, and this is what we did in the fourth package. There's no reason for that. The shame of the prisoners who still want to give their last breath to their family is within the walls of the prisons. Its political will and direction are given from the AKP. The practice of this may be the forensics, may be the prosecutor, may be the police, but the political will and political plague of every affliction that sick prisoners face is on you. Today, we're talking about a process that's going on inside, a process of resolution. For nearly a year, our young people have not lost their lives or shed blood or shed tears from a conflicting process. We're thinking about creating a trust environment, we're thinking about creating a climate that will build a trust environment in the entire community, and we're saying that this is the easiest, most acceptable, most humane step that goes through a process of immediate evacuation of these sick prisoners, but unfortunately, we're not dealing with a single step so far. Hasan Yazar, Ramazan Özalp... look, he can't stay in the prison of the coroner's office. The prosecutor wants an opinion on the fight against terrorism, and the fight against terrorism is not dangerous for public safety, but it is possible that those who visit him at home may threaten public safety. They did not evacuate Ergin Aktas, Ramadan Özalp. You're facing such a disgrace. Come, let's lift this shame. The only way to remove this disgrace is if the House is involved with four political parties as soon as possible. We'll continue to address the situation here regarding these sick prisoners. The hunger strike has now begun in Van Prison, as abuses, tortures, inhumane practices continue. On the 16th day of the hunger strike, people are in danger of losing their health every day, and this action has spread to Erzurum Prison, Mush Prison. In the coming period, if there is no solution to these problems within a short period of time, we may again face a new wave of hunger strikes, a new death - fast resistance. We're warning you. In terms of the process inside, the government must act as soon as possible before such an application is carried out that will complete the process. Yesterday, prisoners from Batman Prison, from Siirt Prison, were exiled to Tekirdağ, Kandira, and Shakran. To take the people of Bingol, and to send them from Mush, and to Kandira, and to Shakran, and to Tekirdağ, is to punish the people, and to punish the families, and to punish the people. We wish you to give up this inhuman shame as soon as possible. And to do that, we would like to support this motion of investigation and ask the General Assembly to form a research commission as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0028par0059	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Fatih Şahin, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0029par0062	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I salute you all. The Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal proposes the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Interior Law, in order to investigate the reasons and consequences of the transfers carried out in prisons.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0028par0064	Mr. Hawk, just a moment. Members of parliament, the parliamentary committee, headed by Mr. Kenan Hasip, head of the Macedonian-Turkey Inter-National Friendship Group on an official visit to our country, has now arrived at our Assembly. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Applause]] Here, Mr. Hawk, I'll add a minute to your time.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0030par0075	If we look at the reason for the parliamentary research motion, it is said that there are illegal and arbitrary practices in prisons, there are problems with degrading treatments, there are problems with over-capacity incarceration, human rights violations. As we look at the progression lines of the motive, it is said that the recent alleged concentrations of transplants have been carried out as a violation of the law. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been transformed and transformed in Turkey by the reforms of 11 years, and are still happening. With the changes in the justice system, we've all come considerable distances in the capture of international standards. Especially during our government's time, radical changes have been made in justice, in the criminal execution system and institutions, and new and modern legal regulations have been implemented. In this sense, this Parliament has put in a lot of hard work and has done its part of the task. During this reform process, conditions for the criminal execution institution have been improved, with a high awareness of human rights, basic freedoms. Our goal is not to allow prisoners to complete their sentences within four walls, but to restore them to society by rehabilitating them. As a result of studies launched to improve the physical structures of prisons, 210 penal institutions have been shut down from 2002 until now, which did not comply with international standards. By 2017, more locks will be placed on the door of the 196 penal execution institution. The closed prisons have been closed because they are not in line with international standards, and efforts are being carried out to make those who are not closed in line with international standards. In this case, the number and quality of prison personnel has been increased. The lives and health of prisoners and prisoners are guaranteed by the state. The basic needs of convicted and imprisoned persons, such as food, health care, housing and so on, are covered by the criminal execution institutions budget. Despite what the Peace and Democracy Party had just claimed, in 2012 and 2013, there was no concrete incident and complaint against the authorities in the prisons for abuse and torture. The photo the Hatibi described is very consistent with the old Turkey photo. Adeta described Turkey here in the 1990s. However, after our power, we worked very hard not to have a photograph like this anymore. Of course, we can't say that the problems are zero. However, we can make it very clear that our tolerance for abuse and torture is zero. In particular, I would like to point out that in 2001 when we came to power, 50,4 of every 100 people in prison were arrested, at this point, 23 of every 100 people were arrested. Given that the European Union standard on this issue is 24.8, the distance Turkey has traveled at the point of human rights, at the point of democracy is clearly understood. Dear lawmakers, it's the understanding of governance that puts human and human rights at the center that accelerates this process of change and development. We see together that co-operation with other countries and international organisations, especially the European Union, and projects conducted within that scope, have a positive contribution to the process. We can address problems in the judicial system primarily in four topics: problems stemming from the situation, problems stemming from the human element, problems stemming from physical conditions and infrastructure, and problems stemming from the criminal execution system. I would like to briefly mention the improvements to the penal system in Turkey: the prisons have been opened to national and international control. Prison watchdogs, consisting of civilians, who regularly oversee prisons. Four world-class education centres have been established to improve the professional qualifications of staff in criminal execution institutions. In all heavy prison centers, supervised liberalisation branch offices have been established and supervised liberalisation has been implemented. The protocol that allowed health care in criminal execution institutions to be provided by the Ministry of Health has been implemented. The judicial control session has been implemented and the three-year sentence limit for judicial control has been removed. Prisoners and prisoners have been granted a leave of absence in case of severe illness or death of their relatives. They were allowed to execute their remaining sentences by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure, which lasted a year or less. There have been changes in our legislation regarding the provision of prisoners and prisoners with special circumstances such as religious or vegan/vegetarian status, and the hanging of the weekly list of foods to be seen and followed. The Metris type R Closed Correctional Institution was opened, allowing inmates and prisoners with mental illness to be treated here except in need of care or mental illness. However, the construction of two separate R-type prisons continues. In preventing torture and abuse, penal institutions are open to national and international audits, under the supervision of the nationally independent monitoring boards and execution judges, and on the international level the European Committee for the Protection of Torture and the United Nations Economic Arrests, Torture and Humiliating Opposition Committee. Due to severe illness or injury, the execution of prisoners who could not survive their lives alone in prison has been delayed until they recover. The arrangement that allowed the convicts to have a private family meeting for certain times has been implemented. Respected lawmakers, as for transports in prisons, the penal institutions in Turkey are governed by laws, regulations, regulations, regulations, regulations, and protocols. Prisoners and prisoners have always had the right to complain to the relevant areas in case of arbitrary treatment. Forensic and administrative investigations are being conducted regarding the issues related to the complaints. In addition, the 135 independent monitoring boards against any rights violations, 141 execution judges, republic's chief prosecutors, justice inspectors, county and county human rights boards and the Public Control Agency have always had the authority and the authority to supervise criminal execution institutions. In relation to the transfers, it is dated 13/12/2004 and Article 56 of Law No. 5275 and date 18/6/2012 and date 151. In order to make room for prisoners who have been tried at the site of the period, they are granted transfers of prisoners to newly-made and newly-made penal execution institutions. In areas where the periodal transfer process is performed, it will be provided to convicts who want to go back to those areas if the ongoing prison construction is completed. For example, if the construction of the ongoing campus execution institutions in Diyarbakır province, Şırnak, Siverek, East-whiteıt, and the construction of the ongoing criminal execution institutions will be provided to convicts who wish to go to these areas. I'd also like to state here that the transplants were not only made by ringcars, but by plane transports were performed, and that the prisoners were transported in faster and healthier environments. Dear lawmakers, with each passing day, we are moving one step at a bid for Turkey, which has improved its human rights report and reduced appeals against it. We've taken very important steps at the point of strengthening democracy, building the state of law, building the foundation of reassuring justice, and we continue to take it. The package of democratisation, released on September 30, 2013, aims to boost human rights and fundamental rights and freedoms in particular. Once these practices are in effect, our state will continue to serve our people with the vision of our party and our government of 2023, a judicial and criminal execution system in accordance with international standards. For the sake of the supply and the reasons I've explained, I say we are against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit03spe0031par0098	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 5:15.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0031par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision to vote on the Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: Those who don't agree... There's enough of a decision, it's not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' 12/11/2013 meeting on Tuesday (now), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. Mesut Dedeoglu, MP Mehmet Şandir and his friends (10/185), who are part of the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (12/6558) for the purpose of determining the problems of the subcontractors (10/185) and their friends (10/185) in the main number (13/185) and for the purpose of determining the problems of the subcontractors, 5 November 2012 and 5th 2012, (2012/6558) and the issues of our friends that we have given to the head of the TBM (13/6558). Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0032par0017	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the research motion we've submitted to bring up the problems of subcontractors. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, despite the fact that over the past two years we have repeatedly submitted questions on this issue, we have taken several off-the-tops and brought it up on the agenda, unfortunately no significant progress has been made so far. About 700,000 workers working in the private sector, some 700,000 workers working in the public sector -- a total of about 5-6 million -- their problems have unfortunately been ignored by the AK PARTI power, covering their eyes, covering their ears. Unfortunately, he ignored and ignored the problem of our people and our people working in this part of the community, not having such a problem. When we looked at the development process of subcontractors' problems, first, these workers sued many institutions and institutions, particularly the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy, especially the General Directorate of Roads, and many workers, for the fact that they did the job of the government, which is the main employer, but not the job of the subcontractor. There have been nearly 7,000 cases, all of which have turned against the state. As a result of these cases, 7,000 cases have resulted in decisions that the contractors who have worked on the highway so far have been sentenced to pay compensation for nearly $2 quadrillion in old numbers and $2 billion in new figures, and that these are permanent workers, not temporary workers. It's actually such a big problem that, valuable lawmakers, I'm talking about this decision on only 7,000 workers. Given that there are 700,000 public workers in total, some of these workers have sued, some of them are suing, and when they do, it will be possible for the state to face a settlement of about 200 billion liras, or 200 quadrillion liras in the old figure. And that's not enough, and once we consider that these workers will be able to face those compensations again in the near future by taking the government, which has failed to carry out these judicial decisions, to the European Court of Human Rights, there will be a better understanding of the promise of the problem we face. Dear lawmakers, when we look at what this subcontractory system is, it's a working model designed to bring down labor costs and escape labor-related responsibilities, to create the basis for irregularities, flexibility, insecurity and degeneration. So it's a method that's been especially applied in your time of power. So when you came to power, you boasted that you had reduced the number of employees in the public population of about 500,000 people about 11 years ago to 200,000, you actually caused so many difficulties in working life that now you've reduced the number to 200,000, but 700,000 subcontractors have been released. What is this subcontractor? When we looked at the subcontractor and the other, before you came to power, what was the difference between the workers before you came to power? Now, if you don't mind the corruption of this study system you've created -- the judgment hits you seriously in the face, correct this. But you still seem to be making some adjustments to that issue. And Mr. Secretary, ten days later, you're having meetings about this, and you seem to be solving the problem, but it's certainly possible to actually see and understand from the attitude and behavior so far that the Minister is not in favor of solving the problem. Because Mr. Minister had previously written in his own signature in the form of writing on this subcontractorial system, which the State Chief of Staff had given them, and then rejected with his own signature that he would remove the positive view of this State Staff's presidency. Again, it is possible that these subcontract workers, such as other permanent workers, would first authorise a collective employment contract, and then I did not give it, and then my bureaucrats gave it to me, which I am not at this point, to show that the worker is not standing by his side, so that he will not actually be able to express much confidence in this matter. Dear lawmakers, the subcontractory system -- I've just expressed -- is the name of unemployment as a result of lack of anxiety in working life, short wages, unpaid salaries, unpaid insurance premiums, unrefunded permits, over and without legal work time, overworking at the end of the year, as a result of the employer's failure to deal with the subcontractor. The AKP government constantly mentions that it has increased the national income per capita threefold; it mentions that it raises the level of prosperity; in health, education, we go forward in many areas, but in working life, it does not mention that the subcontractory system has made its working life three times poor, that it has corrupted this area and made the lives of these people unbearable. Again, many services such as the AKP government's cleaning, security and transport services are under the burden of subcontractors, using cheap, irresponsible, oppressive methods, by ruining their working life, by acting like they're trying to solve these problems, but not by actually solving them. Dear lawmakers, you're always referring to a concept called democracy, which you don't speak of. I mean, we've given up on advanced democracy, and you're giving us the days when we're willing to settle for an ordinary democracy, or even a backward democracy. See, one of the essential rules of democracy is to be a law state. One of the essential conditions for being a legal state is whether judicial decisions must be tied to all persons and institutions and that judicial decisions must be carried out immediately, isn't it? You know that these are necessary in the state of law, but the 7,000 decisions that have been made so far, and the other cases that the unions have filed against you in government courts or in business courts, despite the fact that the government has concluded against you, that you have not followed any of the laws of the law by not doing what is necessary. Now, then, how are we going to talk about right, law, justice, how are we going to talk about such a democracy? If the advanced democracy you're talking about is the name of the administration that doesn't deliver judgment, you've actually achieved a very advanced democracy! The problem is a very serious problem, a big problem. Everyone agrees that you have this problem. See, the workers are already screaming that there is a problem, Mr. Secretary, that the method of running this is a system of slavery, that the courts bring up this problem every time they make decisions, but I'm afraid the government hasn't shown a serious attitude to resolve this problem so far. Dear lawmakers, it is essential that subcontractors be given a job guarantee to resolve this problem, disintegration of subcontractors, the spread of severance fund to all employees. An arrangement that does not include providing subcontracted workers' union rights and employment guarantees, setting up their status, arranging their wages, arranging overtime and overtime fees, giving bank promotion rights, giving annual permits, milk permits to female subcontractors, allowing male subcontractors to be allowed to return to military work, guaranteeing severance. So, I'm saying that the valued MPs -- there's actually a lot to say -- but let's unify our state, our nation, from the trouble they're facing. So come, and say yes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0033par0033	Thank you. Abdullah Levent Tüzzel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0034par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again we're discussing the problems of subcontractors. Of course, that's what Congress research is most needed on. That's why I'd like to talk to you in favor of the motion. First of all, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party where I am acting, I salute you all. Peoples' Democratic Party is among the struggles of workers, workers, workers, and all the peoples who have been oppressed in Turkey and all over the world; hence, the struggle for rights and rights by subcontractors. We've been talking about the problems over and over from this platform. In short, I'd like to talk about the historical process. In particular, modern - day masters of capitalism, modern - day capitalism, who fought against socialism, working class power, social values in the 1990s, brought forth a new world order. The new world order would bring prosperity and happiness to the world's people, but capitalism, of course, has brought more poverty, hunger, unemployment, and business killings to the working people, working class, with all its brutality. The numbers are in the middle, especially after the figures in Turkey and these globalization rhetorics. Privatisation policies have continued to steal and exploit both sweat and labor with more labour exploitation, cheap labor, flexible working models, service purchases, and numbers have increased 10 times in Turkey, especially in the last decade. Here is the number of subcontractors at the beginning of the AK PARTY power, which is represented by 300,000, ten times today. We're dealing with subcontractors in almost every area, and they want to be popularized in the entire working life. Employers, boss and capital organizations are pressuring the government, the Minister of Labor, and we know that the subcontractors' organisations, the associations, those who are with them know that subcontracting workers are normal, the part-payment of the staff worker who does that job means work, unsecured work means killings and injuries in business accidents, and most of all means working as a slave, as the organizational Adıyaman Oil-Works President of TPAO said in a meeting with workers. There's a lot of examples. From the council, from under this roof, there's an example. In parliament, more than half of the workers, the workers who serve here, the workers who work here, are working in this system, so they serve here in five different statuses, five different pay and pay scales. Of course, there's nothing acceptable about it. In the same way, the trade unionists gave us today, apart from the Isparta University Medical School units, they have 12 staff workers in exchange for 800 subcontractors, so the numbers are this big. We're discussing the public subcontractor order. In the case of the largest employer, it is the Ministry of Health in the case of a subcontractor; the number of employees here has reached 160,000. It is clear that by this arrangement, the law is being circulated, and violations are being carried out against the authoritarian provisions of the law. The law says that a subcontractor can't work, especially under the ground. Because, while extremely dangerous and competent, qualified, staffed workers should be working, TTK Zonguldak is running subcontractors in coal mines at first, and the cost of running it is very badly paid for. Here are the fatalities of a series of work accidents. In the same way, a lack of judgment has taken its toll on this area, and there are regular decisions. There are decisions on whether subcontractors should be treated like employees of the original employer, but these decisions are not recognised, they are not implemented by the public; such are the universities, and so are the ministries. The latest, especially 7,000 workers on the Highways, 8,000 workers working as subcontractors at the Ministry of Health, have been rejected by the Ministry of the Ministry of Trade, and in yesterday's Triple Advice Board, Mr. Minister, referring to our Labour Minister Ali Babacan, our Vice Prime Minister wants an organisational society, making statements that facilitate unionisation. Friends, valued MPs; the Trilateral Advisory Board, you know, the working side, the employer's side, and the conciliatory government, is a work form of Ministry on behalf of the state. In the name of reconciliation, the problems of the sub-employee worker are being discussed under the title of sub-employment yesterday, but due to the complaints of the subcontractor, severance has become a problem for the capital, boss, employer. The TİSK administration is the country where the TOBB administration is holding back, the president of the TOBB, yesterday, here we are, paying the highest severance and funding bonus in the world. On the other hand, TİSK President Tuğrul Kudatgobilik has expressed his discomfort, which is good for us, the minister is acting on the right course. The labor costs are especially important to us, and we are developing these sub-employment practices in the interest of savings. It's being implemented in the world, of course, and we're in competition with the world. He has said his words once again and pointed to the Minister, pointing to Mr. Faruk Çelik (Mr. Faruk) and entered from the smart spot, seeking to solve the subcontractors. He's actually confessing from here what kind of accounts they're after, what kind of games they're after, what kind of rights the contractors are in, what kind of rights they're in, and what kind of arrangements they're in, and how pleasing they're prepared to eliminate the worker class's gains of two hundred years. Dear lawmakers, subcontractor work is not the right way to work, in fact, the last fort to defend, as union confederations say. The severance and the regulation work of the working class, the organizational work, the defence of its labor, and the attacks here, the new practices against the rights here should really be answered as a general resistance and a general strike. I'd like to share some examples with you: Look, Ayla Knoll, 55 per cent disabled who has been employed at Mersin Silifke State Hospital for 11 years without a year's leave and overtime fee, has been fired in September on account of her damage to the business. In fact, the reason for his dismissal is that Ayla Bulkmez has been issued administrative fines to the subcontractor as a result of her complaint to the Ministry for being a union member and violating her rights. His complaint was the reason he was fired. In the same way, 113 cleaning workers who have worked at Batman County State Hospital for seven years have been discharged without any grounds, without compensation. Workers working as subcontractors at Elazi Etzi Krom Asş have recently gone on strike to improve human living and working conditions; they have raised their voices to remove the subcontractor, to ensure job safety, to bring ambulances and health personnel to the workplace, not to make frequent insurance exits, and now when workers in Elazı Eti Krom want rights, you are not our workers, you are committed to subcontractors. Again, the BEDAŞ workers are calling on the MPs, especially against the privatisation of the Genghis-Kolin-Limak partnership to receive a notary petition from them in advance. The only thing to do is be near the contractor, where they're really... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to defend your rights like a staff worker, to fight for it, and to stand by the laborer who resists. We, the People's Democratic Party, the Peace and Democracy Party, stand by this motion of inquiry. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0035par0053	Thank you. Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0036par0056	Thank you very much. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a statement in favor of the motion by the National Movement Party on subcontractor practices, and I must share with you the opinion of the Republican People's Party Group on this matter. Dear friends, as the Republican People's Party before, we have submitted a motion to investigate this Assembly's agenda, bringing other opposition parties to resolve the problem of subcontractors. We've been talking about this over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, and we're talking about this, and we're talking about this, and we're talking about this, and we're listening to each other here, and we're listening to each other and we're talking about this, and the main thing is that, after we get out of here, the government doesn't take a step forward, so we want to get the judicial decisions implemented, and we want to express that administrative decisions don't apply. But despite judicial decisions, the law is not enforced, justice is not implemented in this country, and the government insists that I do not listen to the law, I do not listen to the judgment; I know one thing, I know that what I say is true; others are a story to me. With that logic, the country is ruled for years. Now, you know, when we talk about something, it's always in the 1930s, in the 1930s, the one-party system, the one-party structure. So, we're talking about 2002. In 2002, the number of subcontractors working in the state of Turkey reached 20,000, the number of subcontractors working in the state today reached 580,000. Doesn't this painting show everything or doesn't it? After that, minimum wage assessments are being made on such an agenda, we keep it on a agenda, and we talk about severance pay, and it's said that some workers are not paid, especially in this case, and therefore need a legal arrangement for severance pay. Now, if you turn the country into a system of subcontractors and subcontractors, I mean, if the employee of the country is subject to subcontracting about 2 million subcontracts and working on slavery conditions, could it be considered to apply severance in that country? Because there -- I mean slave conditions -- ten months, eleven months, in and out, the same company is running those workers again. And who doesn't enforce judgment on this matter? The General Directorate of Highways does not apply. Now, what's the union's job? I'd like to point out from here that those decisions that don't apply are now being sued by authorities who don't, that prosecutors should take action. Prosecutors don't only report on the demands of the unions, but we report from here, from this Parliament, and we call it the prosecutors' mission. Why do they immediately engage in other matters and neglect the assignment? Why do they pass on this issue when it comes to the implementation of decisions that have not been implemented for months? We need to question that here. So, if it's a criminal complaint from here, we're calling the prosecutors from this council bench. Where do we call it? We're filing a criminal complaint against the president of the Highways, who has not been implemented by the General Directorate of Highways and has not implemented the Supreme Court's decision on the Highways of 8,000 workers, and we're pressing charges against the ministers. Where are we? Despite the decision made by the University of Çukurova, we are filing a criminal complaint against the President of Çukurova University who has not implemented this decision. Where are we? At 18 March University, in Çanakkale, we want the decision to be carried out by that chancellor who has not implemented his judicial decisions, and who has spoken of democracy and freedom on the subject, and we want that decision to be taken care of. Where do we want it? We're calling on prosecutors at the University of Uludağ who don't apply such court decisions there. Because, dear friends, we have so many, so many problems in this country that one of these problems is a subcontractor application, but now we're just finding our main agenda. In fact, Turkey is going to another agenda boat. If this Parliament has to solve this country's unemployment problem, it has to solve this subcontract. What's to be done now? The minister is always making an agenda. The agenda is about severance pay. In fact, he wants to bring up flexible work with the severance package agenda. The flexible study, along with the call, wants to implement the work in the Turkish system and envisions more effectively restructuring the re-contractor application with it. The severance package is in the mix. And as the reactions come in, they're there for a little bit, but what they really want to do is they want to do this project that's going to expand the work on flexible work, subcontractors, calligraphy, that's the name of the project. The second important issue, dear friends, is that 47 percent of people currently work in the country for minimum wage. The minimum wage is below the age of starvation. So, TÜKK said: "The minimum wage should be $1.054, at least as a hunger limit."
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0037par0068	How many?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0036par0069	The minimum wage in Turkey must be 1,054 liras, minimum, as far as the hunger limit. The minimum wage is under $800. It's a minimum wage below the hunger line. How long does this take? Seven and a half hours, and that's actually what it's supposed to be paid for. So, how long do the workers work? They work twelve, thirteen, fourteen hours, and he gets paid. So, dear friends, on the one hand, there's a problem like this, so 47 percent work for minimum wage. On the other hand, right now -- as you know -- our Syrian citizens have migrated to Istanbul and other provinces, and emigrated to Antalya. Hence, most of the employees in Antalya work for 200 liras and 300 liras. So they work in production at their workplaces, for 200 liras, for $300, in very brutal conditions. Why? Because those people were thrown into a basement for a living; 10 people, 20 people, 30 people, in groups, many districts in Istanbul are currently employed for $300. Let alone those 800 liras, not minimum wage workers, but citizens brought in from Syria for 300 liras are also employed and created such unfair competition. So, more specifically, the conditions of slavery continue to be more common. Dear friends -- they've come to groups again today -- while the National Ministry of Education budget is being discussed today, while other budgets are being discussed, other budgets have been expressed by our friends, the teachers who can't be appointed have problems, and our citizens who are old and can't retire, and there are problems in this country, again, pensioners, retired citizens. This is where these problems should be discussed and settled, but in this Parliament, here, the Prime Minister, he shouted, "The democracy," he said, "The people have made a lot of speeches about removing the obstacles to the rights of the strike in many squares, but it is the AKP's government that carries the strike barriers to this country again, which has brought the ban of the strike in the air business, and is still on strike there." Pressures continue in many places. The union members are being fired. When this is the solution to all of this, here, in this House, where we're supposed to talk about this, what we're talking about here is written on ice, and then it's not necessarily done. Now, there's a meeting in Strasbourg. We will discuss union rights and freedoms in Turkey. I wonder what they'll tell us. I wonder what you're going to tell us about the freedoms in Turkey in Strasbourg, in the European Karma Commission. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I have made a pledge in favor of this motion. I salute you all again, with love.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0038par0076	Thank you. The People's Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Mahmoud Kozar and Şanlıurfa MP.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0039par0079	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Before we begin, I have to say a few words about the evaluations my esteemed fellow lawmakers made of our party group, our Minister, or the fundamental view of our party. Dear friends, we, above all, have no approach to the point where there is no problem with subcontractors in Turkey, where everything is a rose. The government's most competent mouths, Mr. Labour Minister, our fellow lawmakers on this matter, have repeatedly stated that the democratisation of working life in Turkey cannot be assessed apart from Turkey's democratisation, and that the problems of working life that have been accumulated for many years must be resolved, and very important legal regulations have been made in the time of our governments. Yesterday's three-way consultation was a very important meeting. Instead of an approach that has been viewed as a problem in Turkey for years, unfortunately, during the times before us, instead of moving on to the problems, we've decided to move forward.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0040par0083	It's been 11 years.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0041par0084	Eleven years, eleven years...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0042par0085	You haven't solved it in 11 years.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0086	...with a central approach to dialogue with all parties, we're trying to solve the fundamental issues of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0044par0087	You haven't solved it in 11 years?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0045par0088	You don't have the means to solve these things. There's no bidding, there's no humidity, there's no advantage in this, so there's no need to figure it out!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0089	The problem with severance is that a significant number of employees are now victims. Currently, the problem with sub-employment in Turkey is a very important problem standing in the way of working life in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0046par0090	Who's stopping you from figuring it out?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0091	One of our predecessors made an unjust accusation against Mr. Minister over the issues discussed in the closed environment, as TİSK was pleased with Mr. Minister at a closed-door meeting. Dear friends, the Minister of Labor is the minister of all actors of working life in this country. An approach between workers and employers in working life has so far lost work life in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0047par0093	What law have you passed in favor of the worker for 11 years?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0094	Today, workers and employers are complements of one another. If you're wondering -- Mr. President Süleyman Çelebi has finished with a very good question -- let me rephrase what we mean as a member of the group at this meeting of the European Union next week. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, before the AK PARTI administration in Turkey, during the previous administrations, were cut off to save millions of employees in this country, but let alone save money for budget deficits in this sense...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0047par0096	You used earthquake insurance. And you didn't use it?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0097	Although there is no public demand, 13.5 quadrillion payments have been paid to employees in this country, and none of these cuts have been cut during EC PARTI rule, with the attitude that an officer can't trust the state in a place where he can't trust the government. 13.5 quadrillion in government cut-offs before us, distilled but unfortunately used to budget deficits have paid off the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0047par0098	Now we're bringing in severance pay with the same logic!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0099	What are we going to tell him? With regard to KEY payments, we will again obtain a council of authorities before us. It is still within the EC PARTI's power to pay back the housing allowance for approximately millions of employees who have been forced to cut off from the officers and in that regard to them with legal interest.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0048par0100	What did you do with the land?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0101	Let me continue with something that Mr. Çelebi is very familiar with. The most important and fundamental argument of public officials' struggles in Turkey for many years is collectively contracted and striked union struggle, but when every request of officers and officers' unions for collective contracts comes up, the most important counteroffensive of governments before us will not be the right to a collective contract, along with the job guarantee. But with the September 12th referendum...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0049par0102	Is this job security?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0043par0103	...our nation's collective contract and social contract, as a result of its decision, is under law in the period of the AK PARTI government, where status law is protected without touching the public employees' employment guarantees. The collective agreement given to officers today is a collective agreement on local governments, a collective agreement on the general collective contract and the collective agreement on the service arm, and a very important provision for employees. Again, one thing we've all been complaining about over the years is criticism of different employment models - 4/B, 4924, 4/C applications and so on. You know, in recent months, hundreds of thousands of people have been recruited by a staff of 4/B. 4924 applications have been terminated, and significant steps have been taken, especially at the point of integration of staffed applications in employment. Again, the amendment to Union Law 2821 and 2822, which has been in front of us as a product of the coup and has not been changed for many years, has also been made during this period. A number of important regulations, as you know, have been enforced in this period, along with collective business relations and the Unions Act, including the removal of the notary requirement for membership and the removal of power objections from the waiting factor for the job. Occupational health and safety is an important area where we get news that cauterizes our hearts every time a business accident comes to the agenda in Turkey. In this sense, Turkey is a country without legal regulation for business health and safety so far, while the legal arrangement for occupational health and safety of all employees has again been enforced in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We've got problems to solve. One of them is an arrangement for subcontractors. A completely unfair and wrong approach, as if nothing had been done about it. Our political parties here also know very well that under the leadership of our Labour Ministry, a meeting attended by our political party representatives with their group in parliament, and two separate subcontractors, a very important road map was established in this sense, and the problems with the subcontractors along with this road map were raised under seven basic issues. One of them is the uncertainty of the definition of sub-employee, and therefore the victimization of employees. The problems that the orators before us have mentioned, the lack of severance pay, the appeals to the judiciary, are a very important problem in this sense. Surely the dissolution of the severance problems of our subcontractors... the issues that have been established in meetings in the Ministry of Labor... the fact that there are no annual sabbatical rights... you know, in this sense, the fact that the contractor's contracts are annual... I'm afraid that because the employer has terminated the employee's work... it's very important that they don't use their annual permits, that the work health and security measures aren't paid in full and time, that their tenders are short, and most importantly, that there are no organizational rights for employees... that should be solved at the moment. We're signing under all the sentences said in terms of problems with subcontractors. We find the approach to the point where this is not solved unfair and inappropriate. The last meeting that was held yesterday, in that sense, was a meeting that was being held on the agenda, with very important evaluations. You know, in ten days, the three-way council will reconvene, and hopefully I will quickly salute the High Council with respect to sub-employment, sub-employment, sub-employment, and with the hope that these practices, which are now truly work exploitation, will be terminated and the legal arrangement for fixing the conditions, will be done immediately.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0050par0111	Thank you. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/11/2013 meeting on Tuesday (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. The parliamentary research proposal, which was submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 12/09/2013 by Koseli MP Haydar Akar and 22 lawmakers, "the conditions of the ports and the problems created by these ports, to determine the solutions to these problems," is no.1012. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Tuesday 12/11/2013. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0125	Mr. President, I've submitted a motion to investigate the ports in Kopeeli, which will cause problems in the future and to produce solutions. Hopefully, we'll see the magnitude of this problem here, and I really think that by setting up a research commission, we'll call this port looting, the sea looting, a halt. Of course, my friends from the government's wing will respond to my talks, and so, here's what we've done, we've put a blue flag in the ports, and we've planted a blue flag like this. But I'm going to do it a little bit later, and we'll see what I'm going to say. As everyone knows and acknowledges, there has been a great change and development in the Bay of Samaria, along with the development of the industry. When I was a child, I was talking about a sea, a sea, a sea, a sea of blue, and a boat, when you went back thirty, forty years ago. And at the point that came today, they were replaced by the docks, the shipyards, where the little boats were replaced by the family trips, where they were replaced by a sea of big-groston ships. Yes, as we say, the people of Kopeeli are near the sea, but they yearn for the sea. Today, the length of the beach is 70 miles [12 km] when you look from Istanbul to Jalova. There are 43 ports on this 70-mile beach, folks, big and small. If you look at this example here, you'll see the Gulf of Alexandria. You can see the number of these ports in the Bay of Kopeeli, 43 of them.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0052par0129	You can't see it at all!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0130	So, it's just port? I'm not including shipyards. At first, industrial companies created small piers to provide for themselves. The new ones were later returned to port businesses, and today 14 ports - 43 + 14 - will go up to 57. Now, when we look at the ports in the Gulf, when you see this picture, you understand more clearly the state of the ports in the Gulf, the state of the Bay of Alexandria.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0052par0132	What does it say?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0053par0133	You're more there than writing!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0134	Well, let's say that these ports are needed for industrialization, for jobs to be opened, for jobs to be increased, for fast access to raw materials, for the fast delivery of the product to the market, for logistical infrastructure. That's right, Turkey is growing, these ports are necessary. Is the infrastructure necessary for these ports prepared at the Alexandria? For example, are these container parks in the picture that I just showed you ready? No, there's no container park like this, and it's not planned. Once again, are the truck parks ready? No, the truck parks aren't ready either. So, do you think there are any connections to the highways in 43 ports? No, you don't. Do they have connections to the railroads, 43 ports? No, you don't. There are only six ports before you -- you've always said before us that there are railway connections made by the authorities. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Again, these ports are not connected to OSB (OSB) or organised industrial areas, which are the most OSB in Turkey. Again, there is no master's plan for regional coast and port. Now, they're going to say there's a plan, but there's no plan. No measures have been taken to prevent pollution and pollution. Again, measures regarding the narrowing of vital areas have not been taken. It is one of the smallest provinces of Turkey, a face measurement of 3,500 square kilometers. Such measures have not been taken every day when vital areas are narrowed down. Even though it is a port city, no measures have been taken to satisfy social needs. What does your mayor say? This is a port city. He says it is a port town, but it has not done the social donut areas that the portiers need, it has not taken these measures. Now the biggest problems of the Big One are the ports. We call them the ports. Because something is being done that there are a lot of people waiting for a new port, but the government is making the most important one. On December 10th, Deep Harbor has a privatisation tender, friends, which is more important with the closure of Haydarpaşa, is privatisation of the Deep Port, which was opened in 1904 through the transfer of the right to operate for 36 years, which is 422,330 square meters and has eight docks. Again, we're talking about a port with a thousand ships a year, but they're doing something else while they're privatizing. I want you to take a good look at this, because the governor of the city, the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology -- he's from Alexandria -- they say we can't allow another port, we can't allow another 1 cubic meter of filling. But when you look at the privatisation requirement of Deepport, you're going to have to fill the lake direction, 450 meters to the south, a thousand meters to the coast, a thousand more square feet to the coast, so it's going to be a larger filling than the current situation. To fill the Gulf with 5 million cubic metres in the Gulf, some 312,000 trucks must be filled with huge trailers, friends. It needs to be filled with 312,000 trucks. We must consider these things and not allow these fillings to be slaughtered. This filling area is the narrowest area in the Gulf of Izmit. So, as soon as we make these fillings, we'll cross across the bay, from the Gulf, from the deep, from the deep, and from the deep, listen to me very carefully, Aldeli MP- Lakecuk. We won't have the sea anymore, we'll start walking and we'll walk. We said he had narrow facial measurements, 3,500 square kilometers. Now that there's no land left to sell, you've started selling the sea, and I wonder what you'll sell when you finish the sea. Of course, what's important in Deep Harbor is the contract requirement. There's something else being done on the tender terms, my friends. Right now, you have a very special client, a very special client of Deep Harbor, a very private media owner, and a group of people you're bidding on, you're bidding on the mines, you're bidding on the highways, and one-third belongs to this group. He rented it.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0054par0139	Everybody knows.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0140	Ciner Group. One third belongs to this group.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0054par0141	Oh! Big bomb went off!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0142	Now, this group... When I look at the contracts in the Deep Harbor, about 16 large and small companies rent space here, we face a situation like this. While other small companies were auctioning the space for $1.40 to companies who were trafficking or exporting cars, they leased 0.68 (a third) from 0.68 (a.k.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. I'm saying something more interesting. While privatisation regulations have banned long-term contracts from privatisation facilities, contracts have been made with other firms until 2013, 2014, while the group has been contracting with this group until the first month of 2013, the first month of this year alone. At the lowest price, one-third of the area, and the contract was made until 2024. Look, what does the TCDD say when they make the contract? There is no dissolution of the contract with privatisation. We're looking at other companies, all of which say privatisation and dissolution are possible. So what are they doing? They're already trying to get an address.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0054par0144	It's obvious, obviously.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0145	If there's an accident at work, if there's a business accident, what are they going to do if this group doesn't get it? He's got a contract at work until 2024, and he'll be renting the places at a cheap cost. Now, Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP, Cerattepe said: "A group will receive this tender." I'm explaining it to you from here. I'll have it notarized. I'm telling you the same thing. This contract will be received by the group that I just stated here. That's what I'm saying here. After they get it, we'll all talk on this stand again.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0054par0147	Did Artvin take it?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0051par0148	I have very little time left. Again, they did something very special on this condition. In the contract that was cancelled earlier, three years of tariffs are protected. They've narrowed it down to a year in this tender. Deep Harbor is very important. Other ports are gathered under the marina, a competitive environment created by the government, prices are a standard, so they're going to go off without a monopoly and attracting each other, but there will be a monopoly on the privatisation of Deep Harbor. And they'll get the money they want by changing the price rate in a year. Once again, Deep Harbor has an important income. He's got a income called "Pilotaj. " About 15,000 to 30,000 euros per ship. What this means is that the ship comes in, the pilot takes the captain, pulls him to the pier; 15,000 euros and 30,000 euros is the number. But that's going to go to the company that's going to take the contract, I think. He thinks this motion will be accepted, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0055par0153	The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0056par0155	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the parliamentary research of the Republican People's Party's People's Party on the case of the ports that are being investigated. In all there are 36 ports around the Gulf of Izmit within the province of Kopeeli, 34 of which are active, and two of them are under construction. Again, 34 of these 36 ports belong to private sectors, and two of them belong to public institutions. The plan for a total of 185 hectares of fillings has been approved prior to 2004, and so far there are 126 hectares. My friend Haydar has just shown me that the ports are really being held in Izmit, Gulf County, Deepce County, in three counties. There are also parts of it in our district. Of course, the total cargo of these ports is 77,666,000 cubic metres of our ports. Here, our Gulf district covers the largest share, about 57.40 per cent of it in the Gulf district and 7 per cent in the Deepce district, 3 per cent in the District of Başiskele. Of course, here, especially, unfortunately, the biggest problem in the country is the unplanned development problem. I'll get to that in a minute. We've never had plans for shores, ports, cities, unfortunately, in the past. We made an unplanned development. Regarding the planning of integrated coastal areas and the plan of the Izmit Bay integrated coastal areas, our ministry launched its work years ago, and in these studies integrated coastal planning continues to ensure our country's shorelines are rational and sustainable by maintaining the balance of using and maintaining the use of coastal areas, which are valuable and scarce. Our plans, approved as of 2012, were first approved by the International Plan for Alexander's Bay Bay Bay Coastal Areas, Samsun Integrated Coast Areas Strategy Plans and Antalya Integrated Coast Area Strategy Documents, which were approved in 2009 and 2011. On the other hand, the Gulf of Izmit was approved by the Ministry of Landing on 8/8/2008 by the Gulf of Izmit and Yalova in areas covering the shores of our provinces. However, later, in 2009, the private sector was court-martialed for the cancellation of these plans, State Court 6. He filed a lawsuit against the agency, and on 28/6/2011, I'm afraid that's why the D.A. It was canceled by her apartment. But on the other hand, our Ministry has launched new studies. Again, the Bay of Izmit, in this framework, has been expanded to cover the entire coastal areas of the provinces of Kopeeli and Yalova, redesigned as the Izmit Bay Integrated Coast Field Project, and is now in the process of ratification. It covers a total of 207 square miles [207 km] of coastal area. Thus, the plans of the Bay of Izmit -- as they were on the other shores of Turkey -- are in place, master plans are in place, and they are in the process of ratification. As I have just stated, it has been approved, but the State has cancelled it, and we are continuing this work again in other areas. Of course, my friend Haydar mentioned something about cleaning up the bay, what they used to be able to swim, and now they can't swim, but I'm guessing he doesn't stay very long. If he stays too long, if he follows the local press, he'll see all of this anyway.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0057par0162	Then you weren't there when we were swimming.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0056par0163	In our province of Kopeeli, it is a city with a total border of 120km [194 km] on the shore, including the Gulf of Izmit, and 70km on the shores of the Black Sea. 30 miles [50 km] of these shores were organised by the city city of Kopeeli, and they were transformed into recursive areas where people could travel, travel, pass time, and be used by our people. However, again, about the work done in the bay -- even in dreams, we wouldn't believe it, we wouldn't have dreamed it -- two points in the bay where the blue flag was taken, and in summer, it's safe to go to the sea and go to the sea. One of them is within the borders of our karamürsel district and the other is at the location of Cebeci, our Kandıra district. Again, on the other hand, right now, we're still working on getting two more blue flags. One of them is in Darica County, the other is in Kandira County. Of course, on the one hand, we have a seaplane to prevent waste from flowing from factories to sea, especially to prevent ships from polluting the sea, and it has been constantly, 24 hours on duty, and a significant contribution. Again, especially the bay -- unfortunately, I apologize very much -- it used to be a sewer pit, but now there's not a drop of water in the bay that hasn't been purified. Prior to the AK PARTY's rule, before the Metropolitan City Municipality, over 100 tons of mud were poured into the bay a day. Currently, with population growth, around 180, 200 tons of mud per day no longer flows into the Gulf. So, how do we prevent them? With eight decontamination facilities around the bay, these are now being released into the sea after they've been purified. Of course, this purification is not only in the Gulf, but is now in the villages. In all, we have 18 treatment facilities, and eight of them are about to be in the villages. To operate only and only the decontamination facilities, the Bigeli Metropolitan Municipality pays $2.5 billion a month for electricity, only to run the treatment facilities. Of course, again, after 2004, there was no place to go -- friends said -- 16 million square metres of green space was created. Earlier each person fell 1 square meter before the EC PARTY, while today, over 10 square metres of green land falls; the wooding is the same again. Of course, the biggest problem here, as I said in the beginning, is the planning problem. Sadly, the area of the industry was established 70 per cent, despite the first degree of earthquake in the area of the city, and in the area of the city. This wasn't the problem with the AK PARTY, it was all set up without the AK PARTY, and this is the first-degree risk, the first-degree earthquake zone, the industry, of course, where there's a large majority of the population. So how do we move the industry to Anatolia? The infrastructure needs to be built to reduce shipping costs from Anatolia. Now, we've all met here together, and we've discussed a bill for the liberalisation of the State Railways in particular, but unfortunately, you're against it. This bill had to happen, which our House eventually agreed to. The industry must be moved towards Anatolia, and the railway road must be strengthened so that the industry's production can be delivered to ports at minimum cost. That's how our government did it, with a proposal from the law. Again, unfortunately, there has been such a random development in the past that, when all the industrial areas are in operation, we can't afford the housing areas of the people who will live in these industrial areas within the province of Bigeli; such, unfortunately, mistakes have been made in the past. They were all done before the AK PARTY took power, and after the AK PARTY arrived -- as a city municipality -- the entire square mile was now planned, not one square metre of unplanned space. Where there will be port, where there will be industry, where there will be trade, where there will be housing, all of this is complete. Now the industrialist can't build an industry in his own way; I don't know, he who wants to build a port can't build a port, he who wants to build a dwelling can't build a dwelling.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0058par0170	He's still doing it.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0056par0171	He's out of the industrial city and into the city of tourism. Today, when people did not want to go, they began to travel in particular. I salute you all again and say we are against the motion to investigate, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0059par0174	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0060par0177	Mr. President, I'm going to speak on behalf of the MHP Group about the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate Deep Port in the province of Kopeli. Both of our friends gave us the right information, a friend of ours gave us some false information. As a result, it's an industrial area with production. The most important issue in producing areas is logistics, raw materials supply, exporting production; for that, ports are essential. So if there's an industry in one county, it's hard to imagine there's no port. One of the main reasons why industry is located by the sea in cities, such as Turkey, where railway transport is impossible in particular is a lack of port. As far as I'm concerned, he's in overdose, which means he's full. Is that enough? It's not enough. That's right, so the docks work 24/7, you're having trouble finding ports, there's no port to unload your cargo. Do we need a new port? There is, but there is no room. That line, shown by Mr. Haydar Akar, about the new Deep Harbor, does not give him a new port. Because the shoreline there will continue just the same. It's just going to change angles, it's going to come out flat. Look, it's not a new port, it's not a new landing ground, but it's losing something, so we're bringing a 450,000 square metres of filling into the bay. Do you know why we're bringing him in? Once Haydarpaşa has left, the necessary container storage area will be placed there; there will be 450 acres of container storage space, where no new port will be built. It's available, that's the port. There's a docking bay, and there's no way to build an additional dock. It will be renewed, but the number will be the same, and it won't bring in anything else, but there'll be a 450,000 square meters of bay over there, more truck traffic, more truck traffic, more truck traffic when the containers arrive. There was a solution, which is, if there's no other Indian involved, I'll go there: Will the container storage area be brought to the Bigeli? If you do that up there, it might be a little more expensive, but if you make it a container storage area to fold the profit of the person you're privatizing the harbor, it'll be treason, betrayal of the bay, betrayal of the environment, betrayal of nature. It wouldn't be right. Another part of the job is that this contract is made with a 36-year contract. None of the tenders there have ever been applied to such a long contract; I'm telling you, this is the real deal. So we're bringing a benefit to the Big One. It's a man that you're taking advantage of, not a Bigeli. I'm not gonna name that guy -- I'm not gonna name him, I'm an industrialist -- I'm not gonna mention any businessman's name here until I'm out of law enforcement. I'm going to give you some information about technical infrastructure: 5 million cubic metres of filling... you destroy the entire nature of that bay with 5 million cubic metres of filling. I agree with Mr. AKP spokesman, the bay has begun to be seriously cleaned; it's not enough, it's borderline, but when it's being cleaned up, a filling like this will make the bay dirty again. With all that truck traffic, the Gulf will add air pollution to the air pollution. Because creating 450 square meters of container space is going to seriously increase traffic there. Traffic isn't possible, roads aren't available for that job, and there's congestion there. Anyway, from here, I, the Justice and Development Party spokesman, tell my fellow MP of my own science: "There will be no square-foot fillings in the earlier filling zones. Although it is said that many of our own harbor owners are making fillings, and you know it, and I know it. You must and must end this betrayal in the name of Bigeli. It would be treason to ignore him, especially in Dilovah territory, to ignore him with his fellow sergeant relations. You know what I'm talking about. The bridge that was built in Dilovasi will soon be no longer needed to land on the artillery. They filled his Dilova in such a way that he was about to be reunited with Jalova. The sea area in the Gulf of Izmite will be narrowed down. I told you. However, a monopoly on porting will begin in Marmara. Because there's a very serious difference between the prices that were given earlier and the prices that are going to be put into this tender right now. This differential will make porting there a monopoly. There are serious streams on both sides of the port; but those who don't know him may not know him, but let them look at the maps, and there are streams on both sides of that port. With this filling area, those streams will be damaged, that port will bring harm to nature. In all other ports... in 2007, this price was protected for three years, and now you're offering to change prices every year in the new tender. Look, I've said something here before, I've said something about a fix, let alone a fix in football, talk about a fix in the tenders. Here Mr. Haydar Akar has just told me that whoever you go to in Koseli is telling me who will take this port. Gentlemen, is there such a tender? If this tender were to happen, wouldn't it be called an important tender? Won't you be ashamed of it? Don't you have a problem with that? How much money has gone into whose pocket there, and this tender has been given here? Wouldn't it bother you if it went to his mind? Can you tell by looking at your child's face that we remained silent where such a tender was made? Look, I'm gonna tell you something: one day we're gonna walk out of here, all of you are gonna leave, none of us are ever gonna be able to face the things we left behind. Tomorrow you'll have to tell your children, your grandson, Ahmet, Mehmet, Turkay, Tunay, you'll have to tell them. Do not pursue Turkey's resources, Turkey's ports, because someone is going to be rich, because we're going to have relations with someone who's going to be rich, and you're going to feel uncomfortable. You're drunk in power right now, you don't realize it, but this drunkenness will end one day. We've seen friends who are finished, and they're having trouble walking down the road. I see a number of Homeland Party MPs, ministers who have been here in the past period, ashamed of all the ugly things they've done, some of them can't go out on the street, they can't even tell themselves they've been lawmakers in the past. Those who claim to have made a lot of money are now worse off than the poor. So, come, leave this council where you have eaten a good meal, along with your lawful snacks. Don't get mixed up in shady things like this, don't let them do it, stop them. That's why you're here, that's why you're here, that's why we're here. When someone's giving orders from above, you'll be in a position where you'll answer to some responsibility the day after tomorrow. Explain, go and tell them, this business will bring us trouble. I would like to now declare that you will stand before me as a proponent of all this, in the event that this privatisation of Deep Port will go to the firm that Mr. Haydar Akar is talking about the day after tomorrow. It has not been good for anyone, nor has it been bad for them in the past, nor has it been bad for them. I don't want any of you to go to this disaster. My respects to all of you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0061par0195	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked against the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0062par0198	I salute the High Council. We're against the group proposal. Our Elyas Candy MP just made a detailed statement on the matter. It says I'll vote against you, sir, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0063par0202	You talk too big, you're too big, Hajji!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit04spe0064par0203	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/11/2013 meeting on Tuesday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The 12th addition, 105, 421, 399, 379, 440, 447, 493, 477, 480, 288, 212 and 375 of the law proposals and drafts in the "Object of Laws and Other Affairs From Commissions" section of the agenda, and the addition of the other tasks according to that order, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17; On Tuesday (November 12th, 2013), until the meeting of the 12th and 1st addition to the Law Proposal was completed, On Wednesday, November 13, 2013, it's 2:00 p.m. Until the meeting at 00, when the talks were completed, until Law Proposal Number 493, Thursday, November 14, 2013, 14 o'clock. Until the meeting at 00, when the talks were completed until Bill 480, On Tuesday (November 19th) and 26th, 2013, between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., Between 20, 21, 27, and 28 November 2013, Wednesday and Thursday, between 2 p.m. and 2 p.m., The fact that daily programs are not completed at 24 p.m. in the following combinations until the completion of the daily programmes, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 480 rows, it is considered the basic law of 480 rows, and its sections are in the following form. It's recommended. The Ministry of Health and its Associations Under the Law on Organizations and Jobs and the draft of the Law to Change Some Laws [[1/791]] 1. Articles 1 to 22 · Global Voices 2. Articles 23 to 40 (In addition to Article 33, Article 11 and Article 12 and Article 34 are interim 8 and interim 9 (including Article 9). 20 The Justice and Development Party has asked for the group's proposal to speak in favour of Bkent Turan, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0065par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised our group's proposal for this week and the next week, and I salute you all. Dear friends, when we look very briefly at the content of our group proposal, we will bring tomorrow the arrangement of the relevant material in our Civil Charter, which is expressed in public as "pantolone." Other than that, we're also bringing up an arrangement in the Public Contraction Act with the request of the YSK, and then we're proposing right after we bring up the relevant bill of our Ministry of Health. We also propose that we discuss this Health Ministry bill as a fundamental law. Dear friends, I'd also like to point out that until the budget talks, our General Assembly is at 3:00-23 on Tuesdays. Between 00 p.m. and Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2:00 to 23 p.m. We predict it'll work between 00. The group I'm trying to explain in detail hopes that our proposal will be accepted and good, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0066par0038	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP, who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0067par0040	I won't talk.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0066par0041	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0068par0043	Mr. President, I have been promised the Marmaray Project, which was served on October 29th, Republic Day. I'd like to say a few words about him. This, of course, is a very important project. I congratulate everyone who contributed to the creation of the idea, the implementation, and the opening of the idea, and I say, well done. I wish our nation the best of this glorious work of our Republic. However, I think that this point is particularly important to underline. While Mr. Prime Minister Marmaray thanked our Ottoman sultans in his opening speech, I wish he had also remembered the late Brent Ecevit, who signed the deal with the Japanese in 2000, and thanked those who had done the rest of his work and the governments. See, there's something very important about Marmaray that the government has never mentioned. Criticizing the decisions made by the Istanbul Regional Protection Council on the Marmaray Project, Mr. Prime Minister said the story of simple pottery cost us four years. Geologists have detected a tsunami in 553,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.................................................................................... Istanbul's history has been determined not to go back 2,700 years, but to 8,500 years. Why wasn't any of this mentioned? Dear lawmakers, even after the opening with Marmaray, we wouldn't need to have this conversation today if the negative news and relevant allegations had never happened. As we all know, some serious public claims about the Marmaray Project have come to light. I would also like to point out to you that I have not been able to respond to any of the motions I've submitted two months apart. Moreover, those who come up on the eve of the opening, and then on the eve of the opening, are very grave claims. As a matter of fact, the first day of power outages and the ridiculously alleged train stops of Travelers have shown that some things are not going well. The Istanbuler who used Marmaray did not feel safe. As a matter of fact, even those who have worked on the project for years, do not get on board. The authorities have made no effort to relieve anxiety while warning. The system does not have police cars or electronic security systems, and the reason for this is the latest claim that the security system covers the entire project, the Gebze-C ring, so the tube is not a control safety centre. Test expeditions are made with diesel locomotives used by State Railways in other transport areas, but they are not loaded with passenger weight, they are not equipped with sufficient test drive, they are an expert company, the German company has not issued security certificates, they have not issued a complete tunnel with 11 units in the tunnel, in case any train is malfunctioning, 15 centimeters in case of emergency, 15 centimeters in which the tunnel is in the tunnel, and the oliveburn is being deployed in the suburbs, and the emergency rescue locomotives are not available on the European side of the line, and yet there is no station to wait for that in our proposal, where all 11 units are in the tunnel, in which there are 15 centimeters of the tunnel, in which it is not to be deployed from the airports, and that the authorities do not want to be replaced by a new unit, and that will not be replaced by the following a new unit of the authorities. When was the vertical deviation in unit 7 filled with and what material? Are there reports prepared by experts regarding the credibility of this filling material? If so, it's prepared by whom. Dear lawmakers, is there any guarantee that there will be no leakage in the project created by the way the tubes are fused? Is the pump system ready to drain that water if it leaks? Dear lawmakers, as it turns out, there are dozens of vital questions waiting to be answered. The government, which has postponed its opening several times before, tried to bring Marmaray to October 29th so that they would not delay it again and fail to keep their promise, and presented it as a victory. Whereas the questions we just counted are about human life. We expect a delegation of government representatives and technical experts of the project to respond to concerns in front of the press. Instead of building new bridges that destroy our water basins and forests, the Istanbulians demand that such rail tunnels be built and the metro networks be developed. Look, when the metrobus is being built, make it a rail system, don't invest in asphalt and rubber. We said, "You've gone easy, you've taken the most expensive buses in the world, you've paralyzed traffic for years, but you regret it." Today the mayor started saying this place needs to be built on a subway. Your own mayor, your mayor, who started the whole history of 1994 and not from 2004, saw this mistake, said that this metrobus could not bear the burden of Istanbul. Unfortunately, traffic has reached a standstill in Istanbul. There's a hundred and eighteen hours a year of people in traffic. We're at the 2nd place in the world with a stop-and-break average that exceeds 31,000 a year. The reason is that the master's zoning plan, which was done with great effort, was cancelled by the Prime Minister, which was designed by one person from the helicopter. The mayor said there would be no construction around the third bridge road when the major objections came, but the Prime Minister promised that there would be no construction, but a day later, the prime minister was refuzed, and he was told there would be housing sites. Just as Topbaş, who said that there would be no taxi barracks during the trip, was told that a day later the Prime Minister himself would be denied and the mall would be placed there. We're going to stop the looting of Istanbul, my friends. Instead of the bridges and freeways that destroy the northern forests, we're going to build rail system tubes. We're going to take the canceled Haydarpaşa-Hazikeli train path back to life as soon as possible. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0069par0055	Thank you. Ramadan Can is a member of the Party for Justice and Development, who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0070par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our esteemed Istanbul MP, Bkent Turan, has made statements about the context of our group proposal, and I agree with his statements, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0069par0061	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has suggested that the group...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0063	Mr. President, I want word against the group proposal.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0072par0064	It's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0065	What's the end, for God's sake? You don't like it a bit, but I promise.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0073par0067	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0069	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against AKP's changing group proposal, and I salute you all. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a serious institution. This institution needs a serious agenda. Every day the agenda changes, every day the issues to discuss change. Here, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey do not know what to see in parliament today, nor do they know tomorrow. There's a ruling party, he brings in suggestions every day, changes the agenda. This is the greatest disrespect to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is the failure of the ruling party, its inadequacy. An inadequate power has arrived and has been put in charge of the state of the Republic of Turkey, and has worn out the state of the Republic of Turkey in every way, spinning it, turning it back on its axis, and every day there are really very troubled days in Turkey. Turkey has already been looted, its resources destroyed. Go up to Asia Minor, friends. I was in Tucson last week. The university -- there was an old building -- is moving into the new building, nothing yet. Look, it's September 30th, it's November 11th, it's still open. Why? Everything's missing. We go, and we say, "What if my brother, look, there was an old building, why don't you... why don't you continue teaching there, after you've finished here, then the young people come here?" He says, "No, no, no, no, no. Why not? Because, friends, there is a university system in Turkey today that the rectors are king, irresponsible and answerless. You see, the chancellor's brother works, where he's a professor, and he doesn't actually have a scientific career; his nephews work. There's a vice president, he works, his wife works, his brother's daughter and daughter-in-law work there. I mean, is that ever gonna happen? What kind of college is that? And the rectors are spending as they please, no audits. Is that the kind of government that survives, fellas? Again, we have a hospital, an old hospital building, and I went to the hospital building again yesterday. Now, the O.R. doesn't work, the elevators don't work, the TOKI's done it, half the building's wrecked. Now, friends, if you don't believe me, go ahead. No, you're the ruling party, so go see. There are people who have brought this country into such dishonorable and despicable situations. Oh, come on, now, will you? Young people don't go to college, they don't warm up. Now, look, it's been a month and a half, and these kids are gonna take the KPS test tomorrow, and they're gonna take final tests. So, how does this work? What's it gonna be, fellas? In a month and a half, children will start training in a month and a half; the finals will begin, and the graduates will be tested by KPSS. What's going to happen to these kids?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0074par0075	I swear to God, whatever happened to your son will happen.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0076	Well, you're still a little out of your depth...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0074par0077	Why?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0078	You haven't developed intelligence.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0074par0079	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0075par0080	Mr. Young, please. You have no right to insult a congressman on the stand.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0081	You talk like that every now and then. I'm telling you right from here. Look, Recep Special, you bring in very special laws here, against injustices...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0075par0082	Dear Private, please.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0076par0083	What did I say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0084	You've brought Recep a special law, and you're the one who brought the MIT Law. You will bear his shame for the rest of your life.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0076par0085	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0086	Yeah, sure. So you'll carry that shame for the rest of your life. For him, what we now call... what if this ruling party, this country... You have a governor of Adana. Well, if the governor of Adana had told you, look, if he had told any of you, would you have accepted it? Well, if you won't admit it, how do you keep that governor there? What did this governor do? Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had abuses in the case of the ECBIL; he went and examined his abuses as an inspector of the Interior Minister; he filed a report covering up robberies, abuses; and he brought it to him, and the governor did it. But this governor is causing problems all over Turkey, insulting people all over. Also, look at his expenses. Now, a political power that keeps the governor there has to bear the responsibility. They'll tell you tomorrow what that governor said to the citizen.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0077par0088	Let's see that governor come out of that citizen he calls "Kavat" from now on!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0089	Then do you accept these words or not? Now, if you're holding on to this, then you're going to approve of the insults that this has done to the citizen.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0077par0090	That governor looks in the mirror and talks!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0091	If you don't have a pregnancy against this governor, you need to remove this governor immediately. A man who doesn't respect a citizen, protects the reputation of the state, offends the state so much can't stay there for a day, my friends. He can't stay a day! Why are you holding this? I'd be amazed at the political power that keeps a governor there who insults a citizen so severely! So you must be pregnant with this. You have a pregnancy somewhere!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0078par0092	What pregnancy?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0093	If you take this off the force, tomorrow he'll say, Mr. Tayyip, I've cleaned up so much of your mess in the AKBIL case, so what if I told a citizen?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0079par0094	What kind of level is this? What a level!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0080par0095	What an imagination you have!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0096	No, look, I'm giving you something, and I'm saying that if you really don't approve of this governor's insult to this citizen, you need to remove that governor immediately.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0081par0097	It's your call!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0098	Look, the Governor of Eskişehir... a young man named Ali Ismail Korkmaz was killed by police with a stick. Don't you have a concept called conscience? I'm asking you. Now, how would you react if some citizens came along and beat your children to death with a stick?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0082par0100	How did he do it?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0101	Here comes the footage, the movies.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0083par0102	Where did it come from?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0103	Now, gentlemen, I speak to people with dignity and honor.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0083par0104	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0105	I'm not talking to the person who's lost the concept of dignity and honor.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0084par0106	Mr. Young, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0107	That's why you don't hear the problem.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0085par0108	Mr. President, he's insulting all of us.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0109	They killed Ali Ismail Korkmaz with a stick. Who killed him? Police. Who killed him? Some people. And there comes the governor of Eskişehir who says, "His own friends killed him." What does he say after that? They're throwing it at the police. There's a feeling called humanity. Look, six teenagers were killed in the travel incident. Look, 14 teenagers were blinded by one eye. Tomorrow, those blinded people will appear before you, and you will be blinded, so you should know that. Now, if it were mine, I mean, in front of the person who blinded me, of course I'd avenge whoever did this. If the government doesn't avenge me, if the government doesn't enforce law, if the law doesn't work...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0086par0110	Ramadan will blind Can, and Ramadan will blind Can.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0111	...then there is a concept called the concept of rights. That concept is actually passed down. In your day, the state forces have been destroyed, the state has been humbled. Look, today, why are you destroying the Navy? In the Navy, recent technological discoveries have passed the Americans, and the U.S. has instructed you to destroy the Navy.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0087par0113	How many apartments does your son have?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0088par0114	Come to your son's apartments.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0071par0115	So, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going to, you're going They destroyed the Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0087par0116	You come to the apartments, the apartments.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0088par0117	Come to the deed to the apartments.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0089par0118	Look, there's a question they're asking you to answer.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0119	Why did you destroy it? Because the Turkish Armed Forces must be destroyed in order to bring Turkey down. Who are you holding? You're holding El Nusra. Who are you holding? You're holding Al Qaeda...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0091par0120	Where have you come from?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0092par0121	Let it go, where you've come from.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0122	Who are you holding? Here you are in Syria, supporting the mindset that cuts people's necks alive with a knife.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0093par0123	We can't keep you, you're talking.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0092par0124	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0125	What country in the world does this exist?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0092par0126	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0127	There are serious international indications that the poison gas used in Syria has gone from Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0094par0128	Now you're imagining things.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0092par0129	Let's go, let's go, let's go!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0130	Tomorrow they're going to charge you with crimes against humanity. It'll be a shame, it'll be a shame for the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0092par0131	Come on, come on! Come on!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0132	I give you sincere advice: please leave this power at once. Look, you've ruined our young people's lives. I mean, to the parents who sent their child to college in Anatolia today, Recep Tayyip Erdogan says: "Your children are coming, they are immoral." Is that possible?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0095par0133	No one's saying that!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0090par0134	I mean, why can't a college boy just go and... you know, two teenagers just stand around and chat? Is that necessarily immoral? Does Mr. Recep know everyone like he knows himself? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0096par0136	You're the dirty one. Mr. President, is that possible, sir?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0097par0138	Mr. Young, please... you have no authority to insult the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0096par0139	You're a dirty man. Sit down.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0098par0140	I mean, what does it have to do with immorality when two teenagers come in and talk? These people go and talk. In that way...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0097par0141	Please, speak cleanly!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0099par0142	Take that back. Take that back.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0100par0143	You don't know how to talk.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0101par0144	You don't understand speech. You don't understand speech.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0100par0147	Sit down.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0102par0148	Take that back. Take it back.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0103par0149	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0104par0150	Can't two people come together and water flowers?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0105par0151	Let's send it to your house to water the flowers!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0103par0152	Please, what you said to the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0106par0153	Sit down. Take that back. Go...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0107par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0103par0155	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0107par0156	Let's vote first, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0103par0157	I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0107par0159	I'd like to take your word for bullying.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0103par0160	I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0108par0162	What a florist! We'll catch you one day when you're watering flowers. I've seen you water all the time.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0109par0163	Level up. Shame!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0108par0164	Sir?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0110par0165	▪ Be generous. Shame on you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0108par0166	You're gonna look there and talk to me, not me. There, there. That's where the flower talk is. Not here, in the wrong place...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0110par0167	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0111par0170	Friends, I salute you all. It's too much...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0110par0172	You're doing the flower talk.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0112par0173	There he is, watering flowers. There he is.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0110par0174	You're still talking.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0113par0175	Dear friends, if you don't know what morality means...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0112par0176	There. You're gonna tell him, your own group. There's the dirty one.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0110par0177	Mr. President, what kind of procedure is this?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0113par0178	One moment, friends, please... one second... If a person doesn't know what morality means, in his life...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0114par0180	It's not that, it's me. What do you mean? You're rude!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0115par0181	Mr. Turkkan... Mr. Canicli, one second, I'll restart your time. Please, Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0116par0184	What's going on?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0117par0185	You're not even a fucking person!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0118par0186	Is it up to you to represent Kamer?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0119par0187	Mr. Turan, please...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0117par0188	Go together, do what he says, come on! Together...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0119par0190	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0120par0191	They're the last people to talk to!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0119par0192	Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0121par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. If a human...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0122par0196	Was there something you caught on that tape? Did you catch someone? Did he hurt you? Did you run into someone there? You're upset!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit05spe0123par0198	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0123par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0124par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0123par0003	Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0125par0005	Mr. President, in Article 69 of Article (2), the promise of failure is given in the same session. The session is closed, you can't promise not to tease.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0124par0006	I was on the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0123par0007	I know, Mr...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0124par0008	I was on the stand.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0126par0009	Read the Civil Charter... read the Civil Charter. Read Article 69 of Article (2).
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0127par0010	Sit down!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0128par0011	Don't worry, we've read as much as you have.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0126par0012	You don't read, you don't understand, you go up there, you get a little bored.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0128par0013	You will, you will insult the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0126par0014	Why don't you go up there and read that Civil Code?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0128par0015	Sit down. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0129par0019	Dear friends, I salute you all. In situations like this, dear friends, you have to ask the question: Can anyone who hasn't taken a moral stand teach someone a moral lesson? He can't. But can anyone who has not received moral or human rights go out and criticize someone about it? Is it possible to take seriously the speech of anyone who has no brain in his mind?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0130par0021	Mr. President... Mr. President, look, but you can't insult...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0131par0022	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0129par0023	So, dear friends...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0131par0024	Mr. Canikli, please... I wish I could do the same with Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0132par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0131par0027	If you had done this when you insulted the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, this would have never happened. This is no place to insult anyone.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0133par0028	Can one mistake cover up another, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0131par0029	Mr. Canikli, please don't insult me. Please...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0134par0030	Mr. President, I'm not insulting anyone. I'm talking about a general principle. My friends, if they're taken from the words of someone who doesn't have those qualities, don't take them. Because it doesn't make sense, because it's worthless. When you're taken, you're perceived to care.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0135par0031	He put you on the stand.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0134par0032	They are worthless, not worth an atom, not worth anything in the air, not worth anything on land. So relax. Because there's no morals, no brains, no brains, no conscience, nothing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0035	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0137par0036	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0037	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0137par0038	Mr. President, Mr. Kamer has made a young criticism. His criticism...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0138par0039	He insulted me from head to toe. What criticism!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0040	Just a second, Congressman... Let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0139par0041	Are you Kamer Young's lawyer?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0140par0042	I'll give it back to you as much as I can!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0043	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0141par0044	I don't feel the need to answer you. I'm talking to Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0142par0045	Are you Kamer Young's lawyer?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0046	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0141par0047	I'm Mr. Young's vice president, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0143par0048	Then own it!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0049	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0141par0050	Mr. Kamer Young has made a criticism. This critique is referred to as tough criticism. His words, his style, it's true.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0052	Sir, let's hear it for a moment, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0141par0053	Mr. Canikli, of course has the right to answer, he will, he will, he will. He may answer with the same harshness, but Mr. Canikli goes beyond that and uses insulting sentences, and you're telling me, Mr. President, if only you'd done the same thing to Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0054	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0141par0055	Mr. Young, did he call the Justice and Development Party Group a brainless person? Mr. Young Justice and Development Party Deputy, what would happen to this General Assembly, Mr. President, if he called an MP a brainless person? Please, promise me.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0056	Mr. Hamzacebi, please let me get the transcripts. Let me read the transcripts, and I said to Mr. Canikli, don't insult him.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0144par0057	Mr. President, I'm being picked on. I'm a congressman here, I'll talk here.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0059	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Young, what did Mr. Canikli say to you, sir?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0144par0061	He said, brainless, brainless.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0136par0062	Here you go, sir. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0145par0064	He's not embarrassed, he's smiling.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0146par0065	Don't smile!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0147par0067	Now, no matter how much you jump, no matter how much you jump, I'll talk from here. Because I've been sent here by a Tunceli people, and I'll talk from there. Look, I'm defending the rights of the people here.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0148par0069	What people?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0146par0070	Where are you, where are you people!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0147par0071	I need to speak from here so I can defend everyone's rights. Canicli says he's brainless. Canicli, let's go weigh our brains. My brain is at least 500 times more than your brain.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0149par0073	No way.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0150par0074	Pull it out.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0147par0075	Now thou art ignorant in my presence, ignorant. You can't talk in front of me now. Look, I'm a finance school graduate, and I'm your master. I know, Canikli, he's been on several missions at the IRS, and I've been there. I know what's going on with the Central Compromise Commission.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0151par0076	You're the spinner!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0150par0077	You've done a good job of pinwheeling!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0152par0078	Mr. Young, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0153par0079	Let's just say it. Look, the $5 billion tax on Citibank was reduced to zero in your time at the central settlement commission. Isn't that a sin for people's money?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0154par0081	Sit down!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0153par0082	Again in your time at the central settlement commission, the two quadrillion-dollar tax of traders close to you, friends, is going down to zero. Now, to this friend of ours at the IRS, sir, look, now...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0155par0083	Who reset it? Tell me...
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0153par0084	Oh, I get it. I mean, you're the ruling party president of the group. I know how you've come here at the last minute, and you've given these pirate proposals, and how you've forgiven some people, how you've channeled the resources of the state.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0155par0085	What motion? Tell me who I forgive.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0156par0086	Don't talk about the weather, talk to the document!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0157par0087	What about your son's apartments?
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0158par0088	My purpose... is to defend the right of an orphan in this country. I'm defending everyone's honor. If a governor comes out and tells a citizen, if you're holding that governor there, you're the governor's accomplice. You can't hire this governor, the governor who says, "Kavat. " You can't hire the governor who killed the citizen with wood, threatened... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's the whole point.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0159par0092	May God not take your life! Live a long time and you'll see what happens.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0158par0093	God is with me, not with you!
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0160par0094	Yes, Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0161par0095	Mr. President, some last-minute motions, some transfers... lt's not clear exactly what he was saying, but he made a mockery of it.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0160par0096	Mr. Canikli, if you look at the context of the conversation just now, I don't know what you're talking about. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be brought up. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 26/02/2013, the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Law Law Against the Law (/1318) which I issued with Article 832 of CHP Group Leadership has not been dealt with in commissions and General Assembly until now. In accordance with Article 37 of the Parliamentary Civil Charter, I would like to inform you that the law should be brought to the General Assembly. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0162par0109	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are very clear in the Criminal Court of Justice on how to conduct the investigation and prosecution of a person who has been investigated for criminal activity. The Penal Code was adopted in 2005. From that day on, practices have shown that some of the problems in Turkey, some of the issues that have been discussed, have been caused by criminal reasoning. In accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, which has become part of our civil law under the 19th Article of the Constitution and the 90th Amendment of our Constitution, and the European Court of Human Rights decisions, Turkey has been subjected to systematic, widespread human rights violations, and therefore Turkey has been sentenced to compensation in the European Court of Human Rights. Since 2005, no changes have been made, despite the established decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, in both Article 103, and in Article 102, Article 102, and in Article 102 of the Law on Penalty and the continuation of the arrest. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights has stated that these are no grounds for arrest because of crimes that have been committed in the article (3) of Article 100 of the Penal Code. The European Court of Human Rights in Turkey has said that the problems stemming from the judicial system and the arrest establishment are now gangrene and that the government of the Republic of Turkey must be warned, and that's why there are so many files in front of the European Court of Human Rights that, in the end, the European Court of Human Rights has not been able to get in the way of these files, and that the government of Turkey should issue a law on settlement in this compensation. Dear lawmakers, the European Court of Human Rights has stated that the quality and nature of a crime cannot be a cause for arrest. He says the weight or weight of the crime is related to the amount of punishment at the end of the trial. On the other hand, all those who have been brought before the court on charges of having committed catalogue crimes in the 100th article of the Penal Code (2) as the reason for their arrest are automatically arrested. This stuff really needs to be removed. Now, we've taken out four judicial packages, the problems haven't been solved. In fact, some of our ministers, after the fourth judicial package came out, had created such a public expectation that the arrested MPs would be released, especially after the removal of the upper border of the judicial control system, they would be released. The motion for the removal of the upper border of the judicial control system is a motion by the Republican People's Party. The issue proposed by the government is the withdrawal of three years in the judicial control system into five years. As a lawmaker who proposed the removal of the upper border at that time, we made it very clear that the solutions to this fourth judicial package would not solve the problems caused by arrest, it would not meet public expectations, neither on television nor on this parliamentary stand. But time has justified us, and so far, seven members of this Grand National Assembly of Turkey are still under arrest, and in violation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Some things we can't get away with in a round sentence. In Article 102 of the Penal Code, the court says the deadlines for the arrest are contrary to the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights. However, in 2004, Mr. Semiha Öyüş, the AKP's Aydın MP, says that the detention period was two years in severe detention and one year in total three years. But with this wrong interpretation, the Constitutional Court has already ruined two years, three years longer, five years; two times as many as ten years in the jurisdictions of special authorities. Dear lawmakers, therefore, if we want to solve these problems in the judicial system, we're bringing in this law proposal in particular on the grounds of the arrest and the duration of the sentence, let's discuss it in this Parliament, let's face it, let's solve this problem once and for all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0163par0120	Thank you. Ali İhsan İkturk, a member of the Zonguldak MP who asked for a vote on behalf of a member of parliament.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0164par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge from our esteemed MPs, Mr. Erdogan Ürk, who has been presented by our Istanbul MP, and that we demand a direct agenda in today's merger under Article 37. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this proposal offered by Mr. Earth to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as its contents, envisions changes in Articles 101, 102 and 109 of the Penal Code, and aims to address the negativity in implementing the most controversial and most victimizing arrests that have been discussed in our country as we go through these changes. Unfortunately, arrest in our country's investigations, prosecutions and trials has been forgotten, forgetting that arrest is an exception, and arrest warrants are becoming a common rule and a pre-crime. Again, the right to release at a reasonable time in Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights is openly contradicted by the principle of proportionality, which has been set up in the 6th Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, and again by the Law of Criminal Oppositions, which has been set in the 100th article of our rule of law. So the 5th article of the European Convention on Human Rights does not correspond in any way to the 100th article of both the 6th article and the 100th article of the CMC. Therefore, these practices are subject to open and severe criticism in both domestic and international circles. As our esteemed MP, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, has just stated, the European Court of Human Rights has made strict sanctions against our country over five hundred court decisions on long and arbitrary detentions. When we look at the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights makes three key topics in our country's arrest practices. One of these findings is: According to the European Court of Human Rights, arrest warrants in Turkey are made on stereotypes. The European Court of Human Rights' second determination on the arrest: these arrest warrants, issued on the basis of the press, have ceased to be isolated, and have become widespread, systematic in Turkey. Again, the third determination of the European Court of Human Rights: these long-term and arbitrary detentions in our country have turned into a precipitous punishment that constitutes an open violation of human rights. As a matter of fact, Turkey today is the top of the countries most applied for because of human rights violations in the European Court of Human Rights. Dear lawmakers, as it is clear from all these statements, the freedom of one of our most basic rights and freedoms the state should actually secure is today being eliminated by the hands of the state's judicial bodies, by the state's own hands. The most obvious examples of this have been seen in cases such as Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Oda TV, and Cage, where our deputies are also on trial. As we have come to this point today, despite the open provisions of the 5th and 6th Amendments of the Convention on Human Rights, 19th and 38th and 90th Articles of our Constitution, and the heavy sanctions of the European Court of Human Rights, students, trade unionists, university professors, women-men, military-vil, hundreds of thousands of citizens are being subjected to long-term arrests and long-term punishments, based on abstract claims that are not based on concrete evidence, and digital testimony that are still a scandal. In prisons, so enlightened are the people who, once again, stand on top of them -- they're practically defamed. In our country, where the principle of separation of forces and judicial independence has been eliminated from the principle of democratic law, where the most advanced examples of the corrupt police state have been seen, the arrest warrant, the ruling of the Justice and Development Party and the political judiciary, as opposed to political power, suppressing, silence... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and became a means of destruction. We say it's unacceptable. Once again, we repeat our offer to bring up our proposal for the law, saying that the removal of these illegal practices is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0165par0136	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit06spe0166par0137	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit07spe0166par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. İstanbul MP Erdogan has not been able to find enough to vote on Üçük's motion to be brought directly into the agenda under Article 37. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-12sit08spe0166par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Erdogan Erdogan was unable to find the number of decision-making votes carried out in the two motions to be taken directly into consideration according to Article 37 of İçük. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. Since there is not enough decision-making in all three votes, it is agreed that the bill and proposals of the law and other tasks from the commissions will be discussed on Wednesday (November 13th 2013) in order to discuss in order of the other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
