tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do a check-up with the electronic device to search for enough numbers for the meeting. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to bring up the problems of the Turkish Statistical Agency's survey on the religious lives of citizens in our region. Before I begin with my words, I'd like to speak a painful truth. On July 2, 1993, at the Sivas Madimak Hotel, most of them were Alevi 33 writers, poets, thinkers, intellectuals and two hotel workers were burned by radical Islamists, but the criminals were still free. Our consciences are still bleeding because there is no justice. We honor our burned bards and citizens. One of our citizens is Asım Bezirci, a resident of the Sunar Site. The questions that the Ministry of Religious Affairs has requested from TÜİK (TİK) in Turkey have disturbed the people of our region. Citizens have reacted in various ways to questions that have offended their feelings. Those who don't want to participate in the survey are forced to participate. Honourable lawmakers have been presented with a transcript and writing from the Turkish Statistical Institution's Regional Directorate on May 13, 2013, 616, on the study of religious life in Turkey, on the basis of daily life, on which status, symbols and languages religion should be conducted. Some questions in the survey are as follows: (Which of the following ones best expresss your faith in God's existence? What religion do you belong to? What religion do you do it according to? What is the source of your religious knowledge? How do you improve your knowledge of religion? Who's encouraging you to do this? When you want to consult on a religious matter, what person or institution do you apply to? How religious do you feel? How often do you perform the following prayers? On average, how many times a week do you observe your prayers in a mosque or a mosque? Would you mind covering your head on your way out? Do you know how to read the Qur'an in Arabic? Do you want to learn Arabic? Honourable lawmakers, this survey has offended many people's religious feelings. This survey undermines social peace and solidarity. It's impossible to understand why such a survey is needed. The purpose of the Ministry of Religious Affairs to conduct such a survey has not been explained to the citizens. It is unclear what kind of problem he intends to use this survey to solve. It is unclear which areas are covered by the scientific method in which the surveyed individuals were selected. This has caused discrimination and unrest among citizens. In this regard, our Alevi citizens in our region are more concerned about their lack of safety. Moreover, it is a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens to be forced to take the survey, to be intimidated by those who do not want to take the survey, to be punished by those who do not want to do it. According to the 15th article of our Constitution, no one can be forced to reveal religion, conscience, thought, and opinion, nor can they be blamed for it; crime and punishments cannot be carried out in the past... Again, in Article 20 of our Constitution, all have the right to ask that their privacy and family life be respected. The privacy of your personal life and family life is untouchable. Questions that exist in the survey produce the result of private life, the explanation of thought. THE Constitution must immediately stop polling the threat of fines, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution protecting the rights and freedom of persons. While power must protect citizens to use their constitutional freedoms, I demand that they immediately step back from practices that will cause the threat of monetary punishment and decryption of personal living spaces. I call upon power to be responsible for the privacy and protection of private life as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you. Mr. Altay, congratulations to the Republican People's Party on being Deputy Group Chairman, and good luck with your work.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0003par0029	Now, Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz will respond on behalf of the government to speak off the agenda.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0005par0030	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. Well, first of all, I'd like to wish our group president the best of luck. Just now, our esteemed MP has brought up an issue regarding a study of TÜİK News, and I'd like to make a statement on that. Our Turkish Statistical Agency is legally equipped with two kinds of tasks. On the one hand, he's doing his normal, statistical work, taking administrative records, or doing field research, and there are certain rules to which he has to do what he has to do. Stealth is one of the basic rules. For example, the courts have the right to withhold information even if they want to. It's an institution that has such an important piece of equipment in terms of the rules of privacy. On the other hand, with the exception of his own research, the TİK meets the demands of our constitutional institutions, institutions established by law from time to time. These include a study of family, for example, in 2006. Again, we've been doing a survey of the Department of Social Welfare's rating system, and we've got tobacco research with the World Health Organization. These are the kinds of studies that TİKIK is conducting, not by itself, but by applying for requests from other institutions, public institutions, international institutions, when demand comes. In this sense, our constitutional institution, the President of Religious Affairs, has made a request from TÜİK, a request for a study of religious life. In fact, we've been positive about this because in the case of private companies doing it, we don't want to do it with private companies, thinking that privacy is very, very important in these matters, because you've just highlighted the sensitivity that we all agree with. It's the official institution of our TİK government. If there's a need, let TUK do it. We've decided to do it, but there's absolutely no such thing as a mandatory response. If anyone's doing that, if anyone's threatening a fine, please give us that information...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0006par0035	Madam Secretary, I'll report it, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0005par0036	Please. Let's do all the necessary examinations.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0006par0038	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0005par0039	Normally in our polls, there's no pressure at all, it's all voluntary polls, whoever wants to answer, who doesn't, but there are strictest confidentiality rules about responders, I'd like to state that in particular.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0006par0040	Madam Secretary, I'll report it, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0005par0041	But if there's an officer on the field that doesn't fit, if there's a poller, please let me know, I'll do all the research we need in our relevant agency.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0006par0042	Okay, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0005par0043	The important thing, as I said, is that this is the work of our institutions that is both fundamental and universal law, as well as the work that our institutions take in knowledge of their field of work and organise their services accordingly. Other than that, he has no other purpose, and I'd like to assure you of that. As I was saying, if there's any specific, point-wise errors you know, please give them to us, and we're ready to go over them in detail. I hereby pay tribute to our House.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Adana MP Seyfetttin Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0008par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the problems of identifying the rail costs of the 2/B land in Istanbul. I hereby salute your high council. You know, in the Parliament on April 19, 2012, about the law known as 2/B, you passed this law over and over and over and over and over again, we said, "We know what this law is, we know what it is." With you passing this law, there have been setbacks in this law, and three consecutive times, we have been forced to rectify it in the House, but despite all of this, we all see that the problems are not solved. Today, this law, which we have produced as lame, limping, patched, bundled, has caused the cries of thousands of our people. The main reason that I took a non-responsive statement today is because, in 19 districts of 19 districts, Mr. Durmis Ali Torlak have found that it is not possible that thousands of people, including Beykoz, Umraniye, Shile, Pendik and Sultanbeyli, could receive such prices in the area of 2/B, including the 2/B, with members of our organization and the 2/B victims of our citizens, were reported on the serious basis of talks. Now, when I say I will bring peace with this law, I want you to know that when I say a liquidation law, you make it a ball of problems and you victimize citizens. Despite the fact that we've brought these ramifications into this law over and over again, we have a path ahead of us. Come, I'm especially speaking to the Istanbul MPs, and look, there are thousands of our victims, our poor citizens, who have voted for you, and you're responsible for hearing their screams, and if you don't, our citizens will be very victims. Look, dear MPs, in Istanbul you saw these citizens as invaders. These are not invaders, they migrated from Tripoli to Rize, from the Army to Giresun, from Kastamon to Çankırı, from various regions of Anatolia to İstanbul to find jobs, food and bread in Istanbul, because of the problems of living in their districts, because of their lack of income, because of their rapid population growth 50 years and 60 years ago. They're not invaders here. Look, when they arrived, they sold their fields, their livestock, and when they came to Istanbul, they cashed their ladies' bracelets and bought them from slums and land mafias. They got themselves a job at the factory, they went after a roof over their heads, and they took these places by laying down what they had in their hands. Now, with the 2/B law, the prices are so set that they're facing a price that starts at $50 and goes up to $1 million. Today, an average of 150,000 liras, 200,000 liras, 300,000 liras, $1 million, 2 million liras were paid to a family. I just got off the phone with the head of Beykoz MHP County, hundreds of victims of 2/B, in a meeting at our county agency for hope. Now, I'm asking you, it's not possible for our citizens to get that number. Look, in these blessed three months, when we enter the month of Ramadan, which is the month of mercy and blessing ahead of us, the poor poor poor, many of whom, for example, are retired, 70 percent of those in Beskoz are retired, working in a glass factory in Pashabahçe, working in a beaver factory, retired in labor today, their monthly income is around a thousand lira. Enter the website of your municipality of Beykoz Municipality, where 46 per cent of our citizens live in Beskoz is making a living with less than $1 billion. Now, 100-150,000 liras, 200,000 liras, 300,000 liras, there's no way they're going to pay. If we don't figure this out today, they're going to be in this month of Ramadan with a huge disappointment and disappointment. Look now, what's happening in Istanbul, the valued MPs: the citizen will have to leave his place of residence, retired, for years, for years to come, for years to come. Now, some rich people, desiccats, land mafias, rich merchants are starting to collect these places from these citizens. What will the citizen do? For God's sake, this citizen is the victim. For his labor, he will have to leave his home for fifty years and sixty years. If we're not here to solve their problems... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we're not going to do this, is there any point in sitting here with the salt dry? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Istanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzzel, who asked the United Nations to discuss International Solidarity Day with those who were tortured on June 26th.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're going through the days when we're going to talk to those who are being tortured the most about International Solidarity Day. As you know, I'm here to tell you the truth about all of these events, and I'd rather you hear it in my own words, as a very wrong, black propaganda, as a member of law enforcement who's been living the Travel Park resistance that's made June even hotter, and who's been talking to police executives who've been suppressing these demonstrations through pressure, violence, from time to time, and who've been reaching out to the governor, the Home Secretary of the Interior. In particular, the morning, which linked May 31 to June 1st, in that intense attack, again, in the park, we tried to meet with the Governor in all those processes on which the Prime Minister was cleared, saying, "I am the one who drowned with the gas of those who used a very democratic, peaceful protest within the park." Of course, we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't reach the Prime Minister about the extremely harmful consequences of this kind of intervention, although, if we could talk to him, he probably would have introduced us to the public as an extreme MP, but in fact, what's the name of all this? If you say: "Young, woman, artist, from different beliefs, from opinions, the fierce suppression of our people's democratic, peaceful actions by resisting all violence, by resisting police violence." The last time, on Saturday, in this memorial of the dead, this kind of intervention, even in the act of remembrance of carnations, has shown that democratic rights in no way have been tolerated in any way, this is the last month that we are in. In fact, there were violent attacks that fell in the newspapers the other day on the driver in Sarıgazi, Hakan Jaban, who dehumanized and made his face unrecognizable. So, yes, they do, it's within their power. If that's what the Prime Minister calls authority, if that's what they call it, if the Governor, the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister, is going to take care of those who do this kind of public work, a sense of security like this should be seriously questioned in this country. Then they ask those who exercise these powers, "Have you been chosen to torment the people?" The account of the murder of Ethem Sarısülük in person of police bullets has not been accounted for, and is being tried to cover it up, as is the case with all state crimes. Now, the lie must be put aside. In the statement given by the Dolmabahçe Mosque to the police, I did not see anyone drinking alcohol in the mosque. Now, the Prime Minister must turn around and stop hugging it at the rally. And this is a great game, a great plot, a plot, a coup. There's no coup, there's freedom and there's democracy. The people who rebel against the neoliberal attacks of capitalism and their oppressive methods... are like that in Greece, and so is Brazil. It's the rebellion of the people against transportation costs, the rains of the monopoly, the plunder of the environment, the boring of the labourer. That's the common character everywhere, or there's no lobby, there's no international power. Dear MPs, the question must be sought in response to the question of democracy for whom? The Prime Minister says to the Solidarity Platform, which came to meet him, "The Foot." He says, "Not you, but me." It's not just about voting in the chest, it's about democracy. Here are the forums made in parks, the future of the country, democracy, city administration. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Mental People, not even this mechanism was run democratically. The demands in the solution process are also associated with demands in the squares. For everyone, equality, democracy, and brotherhood, or else I will not accept the mother tongue; I will continue to build the police station, dam; I will not lift the election dam. If you say, "You will not understand the masses in this square." The Law on Meetings and Demonstrations must be renovated democratically; that's what the public wants from you. If you call it a national will, the national will will will come out of a democratic environment without pressure, without ban, without dams. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say, stop the manhunt, stop the torture practices, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0012par0084	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, we condemn violence to health workers, especially physicians, all employees, as the National Movement Party Group, but we also want to make a point in this sense: there is a bag of health-related legislation being discussed upstairs in the Commission. In this bag, we fear that the healthcare workers will again be victimised by a number of subjective definitions, with five per cent of the rights of health care workers being ignored again. But we also need to say that the statements of politicians, the government at first, the health workers, the accusers, have increased the use of violence against the health workers of patients. I also want the government and the authorities to correct their language at this point. Another issue is that another bag of legislation is being discussed, and the 4/C people who work in the forest are being ignored again, and the fire workers who work in the forest are being ignored for five hundred and twenty-nine days. As the end of the term comes, sir, I strongly demand that these injustices be corrected by the bag of laws discussed in the commissions under the request of the government, as the National Party of Action, and I give you my regards for your promise, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0014par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, we'll be told by our Lord Lord Lord Lord Ilhan Demiröz.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0013par0092	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0015par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there will be a meeting of CED in a wedding hall on 4 July 2013 for the thermal plant that was asked to be built in the Bursa Keles Koz Tree Valley. However, the AKP agencies are attempting to give positive opinion at the meeting and transport party members to the 2,000-member wedding hall, according to reports from the media. Mr. President, I condemn this initiative by the AKP's government, which is seeking to move people from the outside to this meeting, where our villagers in the region will give an opinion. I'm stating that it's not safe to turn the Kelesians against each other, to bring our people against each other as those who want and don't want a thermal power plant. I warn you, don't turn people against each other in Keles, please hold the CED meeting with local people or postpone it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0016par0099	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Newroz 2012, security forces, particularly Mr. Ahmet Türk, have knocked out one of our MPs, Ertugrul Kürkçı and Halil Aksoy, and raided the house where our MP Özdal Threeer was staying. After the intervention of the security forces, our party manager Hadji Rich has lost his life. Many people, especially children, have been seriously injured. The law enforcement forces have thrown gas bombs from the helicopter onto the rope-pulling mass. In addition to unlimited use of gas, security forces have not hesitated to use firearms. This form of intervention has caused severe injuries and deaths. At least 1,095 people have been taken into custody because of Newroz. In order to avoid further injury and death, we propose and provide the necessary opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to investigate the reasons and how to prevent the unproportionate forces of security forces. The level of civil society's development is proportional to the country's level of development. The way governments approach different cultures is also related to the country's democratic governance culture. Given Turkey's multicultural and multilingual feature, it is clear that the environment in which they can display cultural features, celebrate, and be respected. The Kurds, a large part of Turkey's ancient people of the Middle East, also have the right to celebrate the Newroz Day as they want it to be, as they want it to be, collectively, in Kurdish culture. Despite the guarantee of Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and Article 34 of our Constitution, the approach of governments is pushing the limits of intolerance. Despite all the pressures and bans, Newroz has now become a mass celebration of millions. In all this time, the government's approach to Newroz Day was the same as its approach to the Kurdish problem. With a mass celebration in 1991, the status quo within the state began to see Newroz as a danger to itself, taking 31 lives by law enforcement force. In 1992, 94 people were killed in the attack by security forces. After the painful events, Newroz was more celebrated, a symbol of freedom, resistance, democracy, and culture. The state has allowed mass celebration since 2000, but has again intervened and taken life in 2008 and 2012. When the government didn't forbid it, when they didn't use security forces, no one could have bled, Newroz was celebrated, and peace messages were given. The return of power to the 1990s, addressing the Kurdish problem in a security perspective, again banning Newroz, has led to disproportionate intervention by security forces. It's the first time he's thrown gas bombs from a helicopter into the halay crowd. This view has become so out of control that the official police of the state have undermined Mr. Ahmet Turk, who is in a respectable position with all the peoples of Turkey. One of our MPs, Ertugrul Kürkcı and Halil Aksoy, were beaten. Our Congressman Özdal Threeer's house has been raided. Security forces are armed. Our party manager, Hadji, died in the wake of the attack on the rich police. At least 1,095 people have been taken into custody. Many people, especially children, have been seriously injured. The 2012 Newroz showed us that security guards were too hostile to stop using unlimited gas bombs as well as firearms. In particular, media bodies under the influence of the government have reported the incidents in accordance with the government's views. Even as Mr. Ahmet Turk describes the attack against him, the fact that the news channels have put the incident on the ground as a bet in the subtitles also shows the seriousness of the situation when effective reporters and networks try to present it as merely a claim. What has happened has shown us that in non-proportionate intervention, the use of unlimited gas and firearms of security forces is costing people their lives. To avoid further deaths, it is important to investigate and take necessary measures for the reasons of disproportionate power imposed by security forces. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be launched under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter of the Constitution, in order to determine all of its problems from its production to its operation and marketing, and to contribute to improving the welfare levels of those living in our Baskil district. 16/2/2012 [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Inconceived]] 9) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 10) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[Yozgat]] [[Manisa]] 14) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kayseri]] [[Erzurum]] Our Baskil district has a geographical area of 1,195 square kilometers, along with its villages. In our county, gardening is heavily done. 98% of fruit gardening is apricot gardening. 90% of the county's livelihoods are apricots. Our county has an important place in the country's economy in the production of apricots. There are about 720,000 apricot trees in about 68,000 acres. About 100,000 tons of apricots are produced annually in our district. About 80 per cent of the yield is dry apricots, while 20 per cent are consumed in domestic and external markets as age fruit. Our district covers about 15 per cent of Turkish apricot production and 7 per cent of world apricot production. The apricot, raised in our Baskil district, reaches 20 to 25,000 tonnes of year-old produce at 60-70 per cent. This is the amount of dried apricots worth exporting. Again, our district produces the most valuable, high-quality apricots of the world's apricot production in terms of potassium values. This value, however, could not cost our district and our province because of the lack of business. This economic value will contribute seriously to the development of the region if apricot management is in our province. There was an apricot business facility in our district in 1990, but this facility has not started operating since. This facility must be repaired in accordance with the new technology and offered to the services of our district's apricot producers. Instead of creating new production techniques that negatively affect exports, and training and awareness of apricot producers in such matters as collecting, storage, sulfurization. Apricot producer needs to be given diesel, fertilizer and agricultural medicine support and measures to improve the price instability that frightens the manufacturer. Support from scientific institutions should be made to deal with harmful people such as white freckles and larvae, which damage the production of apricots. To increase the production of apricots in our district, drip irrigation method must be applied, irrigation infrastructure investments should be increased and agricultural electricity prices should be lowered, soil analysis should be done regularly and conscious chemical fertilizer should be consumed. It is known that apricots have positive effects on sodium-rich, potassium-rich heart failure, kidney disease, hepatitis, cirrhosis treatment. One of the most important compounds in nutrition and health of dry apricots is diet fiber. Diet fibre, constipation, irritabl colon syndrome, appendicitis, hemorrhoids, dental disease, fatness, diabetes, coronary heart disease, and colon cancer reduce the risk of disease, allowing the intestines to function regularly. The most important thing to note in the marketing of its apricot is that instead of dried fruit, its apricots are exported into high-processed products. One of the things to be noted in marketing is the creation of marketing techniques and products in line with the consumption habits of countries to market apricots. In recent years, apricots have become more important in cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. Apricots are also used in benzaldehyde, furfural, active carbon, amygdaline, hydrocyanic acid, and also in the production of biofuel and biogas. Instead of selling dry apricots in the form of raw materials, new export products from apricots should be weighted and diversified. In order to ensure scientific research of all problems of our country's and our province's economy, which contributes substantially to its production and marketing, to enable the region's people to produce more effectively, to develop and create employment in our district, we propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened and conducted by Articles 104, 105 of the Constitutional Law and Internal Law shall be opened and offered. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There have been significant increases in the "hate crimes" committed in Turkey over the past few years for increasing racism, nationalism and intolerance, different ethnic identity, religious minorities, left opposition, sexual orientation, and people with different gender identities. In order to prevent and take the necessary measures caused by these hate crimes, which have been used by hate statements that alter and even make different identities, through the defined identity in the unilateral ideology, we demand and demand that the research commission be set up in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitutional Council of Turkey, under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] While it is not an internationally accepted definition of hate speech, it is considered to be any expression or expression that has the capacity to encourage crime based on intolerance. This expression or expression includes words that can lead to hatred or criminality against a race, religion, ethnicity, group, or sexual preference. In contrast to the international uncertainty of the concept of hate speech, the concept of hate crime has been described as very clear and broad in the European Security and Co-operation Agency. According to this definition, hate crime is all kinds of crimes involving a group with real or real or felt race, national or ethnic origin, language, color, gender, age, mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, or other similar factors based on real or similar attributes, commitment, belonging, support, or membership, and crimes against individuals or property. The most important aspect of this definition is that the crime was committed due to prejudice or hatred, in reference to a defined identity or any object that resembles that identity. In this way, the crime of hatred expands the nature and limits of any crime that the penal code covers. Hate speech and hate crimes based on this are one of Turkey's oldest problems. The origins of hate speech and hate crimes dating back to the republic continued because of official ideology, which ignored differences with the republic's establishment and had a monotheistic character. The definition of identity created together with the Republic is imposed in many areas by the expression "one race, one language, one religion" from the educational system to the administrative system, from law to politics and media. The rhetoric created by the components of the identity that are imposed and attributed to the advantage is externalizing and even enemyizing different identities. At times, they were either slaughtered or victimized by oppression or exile by individuals or groups with different identities. There have been massacres of hatred against Alevi Kurds, 6-7 September and the non-Muslim minority, Maras, Çorum, Sivas and Vezi, each of which has been black-stained in the history of the Republic. The main reason for these tragic events is the insufferability that has been developed against different identities that have been differentized and misogynized by a blessed official identity. The hate speech that was created by social and political culture vomited through the media and the lynchings triggered by those rhetorics have been climbing since the mid 2000s. Since 2005, there have been nearly 100 cases of lynching, including non-Muslim citizens, including Kurds, who have been targeting left opposition in Tripoli, Sakarya, Rize, and Mersin. Priest Santoro, Hrant Dink, Malatya Summit Press massacres, as well as the Roma in Seldidi, almost all of the provinces in the western and Black Sea region, have encountered lynching attempts by Kurds who are established as students or seasonal workers. THE Prime Minister's position should be determined by considering the sensitivities of our people, after being asked to be lynched in Tripoli on April 6, 2005. When these national sensitivities of the public are touched, no doubt their reaction will be different. The attacks of racist groups, which took courage from their statement, continued to increase and lynching attempts have now become ordinary. The lynching attempt against Kurdish workers in Emet district of Kütahya Province on 13 March 2012 is now the last link of this mundaneity. An immediate examination of this dangerous situation, which is increasingly common for hate speech or lynching attempts, must be taken effective measures so that new murders, lynch attempts, and conflicts do not occur. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is favoured by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 25th Amendment of the Civil Code. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0017par0242	Mr. President, thank you. I congratulate Mr. Engin Altay, who has been elected President of the Republican People's Party, and Mr. Akif Hamzacebi and Mr. Muharrem Encel, who have been re-elected. I'd like to express my opinion about an app you just did. You know, I think your application according to Article 60 of the Civil Code is correct. However, there's been a procedure recently, and it's been an irregular procedure. You're making promises to the members of the group, as all of our congressmen have done, after extracurricular speeches, to the members of the group, on the exception of the Civil Code 60. But lately, from what we've seen, the group's vice presidents are handing over the word they took from you to someone else. I'd like to say that this is not in the Civil Code, but in accordance with the rights that our Parliament Speakers have made as an exception. I hope, in the future, the Deputy Speakers and our concerned friends will be more sensitive about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit01spe0018par0248	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0018par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 27/6/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly agenda (10/81) is based on "Determination of measures which must be taken by investigation of the issues of students' problems" (10/322), Kütah MP Alim Izım and his friends (10/81), and Mersin MP Mehmet Şıkesir MP Mehmet Şıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut and his friends (10/322), whose questions need to be investigated and the results of the changes to life under which they had to be taken under investigation, as well as those of their friends who had to investigate the issues of teachers, and those of their friends who had not been appointed an appointment with them, and those of their colleagues who had to take steps to investigate the results and the results of their work on the results of their questions, and those of their questions that need to be taken by the University of Turkey's academics on December 12, 2013, and on November 2013. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0019par0016	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, one of Turkey's deep wounds is the unassigned teachers. On my way to Parliament today, I witnessed a meeting held in front of the Assembly about the victims of 4/C of Turkey's KAMU-SEN. Over the years, I've been suspended from work for a long time, reduced wages for different jobs, short-paid, underprivileged, underprivileged, underprivileged, every year, and I've been bringing the government's burden back to its agenda, asking the government to assess, to solve this problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to address the motion from the National Movement Party regarding the non-assigned teachers. Education is being conducted by the Ministry of National Education in our country. For about ten and a half years, the AKP's rulings have changed the 5th minister, currently running the Ministry of National Education as the 5th minister. In no country in the world, governments often don't change education ministers because education, such as agriculture, industry, is not an industry that will immediately see the consequences; its investments are today, after many years, a ministry that will be viewed as positive or negative. For now, his name is still, thank God he doesn't know about education, but he doesn't know about the practice, just by teaching him, by keeping the kids in the classroom between classes, and I'm afraid that even though it's said that we're at an economic level around the world in the 17th century, that our national income is higher than $10 million per person, our co-owns can see how far behind we are in education, how far below them are our standards. Given the number of students per teacher in OECD countries, the number of students per classroom, Turkey has yet to solve this problem during the 11 years of AKP's rulings. Because as far as we can see, the government has no educational policy, precious MPs. Every minister who's changed thinks he's a genius about it, and based on the opinion of himself and his team, he's always trying to change the system in education, change the staff. Since one has corrupted the other, education has failed to reach the expected level in Turkey. Mr. Secretary is one of the first ministers of education. I'm hoping for national education. Hopefully, I hope, by filling the environment with training staffs, not experts from different ministries like the previous ones, in their custody, by taking the science as his guide. It's a situation. The need for classrooms in the country, the need for schools at the extreme stage, the system of 4+4+4 is still in place, because an infrastructure of this has yet to be established, without study, without evaluation of the needs, without the teacher's numbers, without the bomb, in the bathrooms built for middle school children; in the bathrooms built by five-year-olds; in the same environments that have to share with them. But again, when we haven't been able to get the uninterrupted education into a system like this, we're trying to get the primary school down to four years, and we're not sure what we're going to do with the growing teachers, and we're trying to stop the victims by opening classrooms in basements and warehouses. The need for a teacher in middle school is back on track. Dear lawmakers, based on OECD countries, the need for teachers in our country is very high. According to the 2012 Education Report, the average number of students per teacher in OECD countries is 15.9; 13.7 in secondary school; 13.8 in upper secondary schools. Based on these averages, Turkey needs 213,154 teachers in our country, 69,775 in primary school, 109,781 in secondary school, 33,598 in high schools. That's the number that comes out of the level of countries that we see as equal to them, but our Ministry has declared what I need is 128, so it's half a number. However, the ministry's staff, unfortunately, is 37,706. The Ministry says: I need 128 thousand teachers. The government has given 37 thousand to the Ministry of National Education. During your governments, nearly 11 years of work -- within your system, about 40,000 or 50,000 students graduate from education schools, which you open like mushrooms, which are the easiest to open. Currently, there are 350,000 teachers and teachers in the current society, Asia Minor, who have finished their education courses in a short way, my daughter is a short way teacher. There are more than 400,000 teachers in this year's class who have not been appointed. These kids can't work in shoes, they can't work in industry, these kids can't make tea, they're teachers. He's educated on education, focused on teaching, he's young with a dream of teaching, but after finishing his school, we don't have to make everyone a teacher. There's a youth he's met. Some of them -- we read from the press -- are depressed, some are committing suicide. That's a big problem. The government puts some staffs in the municipalities on the state staff. In education, in technical teaching, especially in teaching, the government is trying to take advantage of them in technology classes, giving them 800 lira a month, but the children who have been trained for it are out there. We're training with 60,000 paid teachers. Do you know in what areas this 60 thousand paid teachers, or rather, our country needs teachers? East and Southeast areas. Do you know what pay teachers are assigned there? I don't think the Minister knows either. There, on the advice of the terrorist organization, teachers, people who have graduated from college are being entered into classes. So, are these being audited? No, it's not. The school is closed at the murdered terrorist funerals, where the entire school's students are taken. Even though I reported it to the ministry, even though I mentioned it as a school, it's not being processed or processed. The thousands of teachers who make the terrorist organization sing in the classrooms have to give the Ministry a new chance, a solution to this problem, to the state, to the ministry's ability to control education, to achieve justice, equality of opportunity, where science should be taught to the child, where the people who teach ideology, racism, different separatism, to appoint them in order to be absolutely cut off. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0020par0024	Thank you. Avni Erdemir, MP of the National Movement Party, who has asked to take a stand against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0021par0027	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group proposal the MHP Group has made to investigate the problems of non-assigned teachers and the problems of working teachers. I hereby salute you, my dear friends, and our teachers. The group proposal considers two main issues: one is the issue of unappointed teachers, and the other is the problem of working teachers. First, I'd like to address the issue of non-assigned teachers because we want to approach the subject of university education from a wider framework. Dear lawmakers, universities are science centers where information is produced, taught, shared with the community. In universities, how can I be employed in a public institution? Beyond that, we have to raise young people who have great dreams and thrills for their country and themselves. That's what our struggle is really about. Look, our collegeization rate was 14 per cent in 2002, reaching 35 per cent today. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. Because these numbers that we have reached have reached Europe in the early 1990s. Education sociologists refer to low-profile university education as ▪ Choosing education, and university education is now taking a stand around the world. We're not defending education by choice, we're defending education by the group as the AK PARTY. Dear friends, look, Japan and South Korea today have chosen 100 per cent of the age population as their goal to graduate from college. We have just reached the goal that Europe achieved in the early 90s, and if we want to be among the world's 10 largest economies, we need to raise the level of universityization rapidly if we want to create a great state, strong society. If we choose to raise enough college graduates to be employed in public as targets, I'm afraid we'll be far behind in this blessed race. My dear friends, it would be a false argument if we could interpret our struggle for education in public employment of college graduates, only by establishing the relationship of graduates in public employment. I'm afraid that a public debate of college graduates only connects with public employment takes our country back to international competition, because while the whole world is developing its competitiveness by choosing from college graduates, we try to continue this race by choosing from high school graduates, which we have no chance of succeeding, dear friends. Yes, let's not be unfair to our country, to ourselves. When we compare the world with the developed European countries, we see that the employment rate of college graduates is ahead of Europe. In Europe and developed countries, university graduates have an average of 69 per cent, while in our country, they are 71 per cent. Dear friends, I've said it many times before. Of course, every candidate for a teacher who can't be assigned, every young person who can't find a job, is breaking our hearts, all of us. Of course, we know what unemployment can cause in society, what storms are in the hearts of an unassigned teacher, what dramas they're experiencing. And that's exactly what we've been fighting for for ten years as the AK PARTY government is for. That's what we're working on day and night. We strive to produce, quality, export. We know that we can never solve these problems without improving our country, without expanding it. I wish there was a magic formula so we could solve these problems right away. My dear friends, I have expressed my deep regret for myself that this matter has been brought to the agenda of the High Assembly over and over again. Of course, the opposition has the right to bring the matter to the agenda of the House, which we respect. However, these young people are our young ones. These are our children. The challenges they face are of course important. The storms in these things are of course important. But I think it's most unfair for these young people, believe me, to be used as a political tool for the abuse of their feelings, the use of power and opposition to wear each other out. My dear friends, we have never been political populism, we have never abused the feelings of our young people. We promised what we could do, that with the needs of our educational community, we've always brought the truth of our country together, we've done what we can, and we continue to do what we can. Dear lawmakers, I sincerely believe that universities should plan to receive students, considering the supply and demand balance. Our ministry has done the necessary work with the SEC, and it is planned according to our country's needs. The Teacher Work Projects, Strategys and System Development Project has been launched. Dear friends, look, 357 thousand teachers have been appointed from 2002. That means more than half of our teachers are working right now. Yes, in 2012, we appointed the highest teacher in the history of the Republic, a total of 57,000 teachers. Dear friends, there will be 357000 teachers appointed in the AK PARTY administration, the situation in your own era will never be said, and all non-assigned teachers will be accounted for by the power of the EC PARTY! Come on, guys, let's be realistic. Wasn't there a problem in Turkey, where you handed it off in 2002, with a teacher who couldn't be appointed and a teacher who couldn't be appointed? Of course, there were problems that day. If we come to the point like this, what are we going to do about the unassigned lawyers today, what are we going to do about the unassigned economists, the unassigned geologists, the archaeologists? Yes to a necessary plan, but come, say that if we are in power, we will be able to employ everyone who graduates from the university in public. We have always said that we will not be deceived or deceived. We know that in no country in the world, not everyone who finishes college is employed in public. In fact, today we are one of the most publicly employed countries in the world. Today, even in America, considered the world's largest economy, unemployment is around 8 percent. We always say what we have to do: grow up, grow up. What we've come up with in the vision of 2023 is 500 billion dollars of exports, reaching the goal of the world's 10 largest economies. If we succeed in this, we'll talk about the unassigned teachers, the other unassigned professionals, the problems will resolve themselves, God willing. As a government, what we do today is tell our young people the truth, improve this country with our nation, and reduce unemployment. We'll do it together, hopefully, with our people. In fact, we know that in 2002, our Prime Minister worked in the squares on non-assigned teachers. So if he worked in the squares, one of the most important issues in Turkey was the issue of non-assigned teachers.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0022par0042	Eleven years, eleven years.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0021par0043	You're making that very clear, yes, in your motive. Yes, that's what our Prime Minister said in the squares, and he did what he had to do in our 11 years of power, 357,000 teachers, so more than half of the 700,000 teachers working today have been appointed to the AK PARTI. My dear friends, of course, our teachers have problems. Our teachers have no value to appreciate his work. Whatever material resources we offer them, no one, but no one can say that the teacher's buying power is worse than the one we took over from Turkey. If you think it's enough, it's not enough. I'm saying that our teachers' issues must be resolved; their problems must be resolved, and hopefully that will lead to the power of the AK PARTY. I salute your council, your high council, with love.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0023par0047	Thank you. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0024par0050	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party in favour of the motion to investigate the unsupervised teachers, and once again, I salute our House. Dear friends, just a moment ago, our friend from the AKP says that by bringing these issues up as opposition, you're actually deflecting the agenda by talking about them. If that's the main thing, it's to talk about the problems of suffering citizens in this country. In fact, that's the problem with Turkey. There are thousands of desperate young teachers in this country who haven't been appointed in four years. If you go to any school on the day of the KPSS test, you can hear the young people say it. You can also witness young people who can't be assigned by 80, 85, 90 points. None of the promises made to teachers were kept. For many years, the candidates of teachers who have been hard-reading, struggling for their ideals -- for the sake of the attack -- have struggled, and are still on the streets today. And you ask, "Why do people go out on the streets?" Here are the reasons, dear friends. Teachers, pensioners, unemployed, workers, civil servants, anyone you touch will be in trouble. How can these people not rebel, dear friends? See, the whole Travel Park thing isn't just a bunch of trees. The reasons are obvious, it's about more than three or five trees, dear friends. If a teacher is a taxi driver, a teacher is a porter, how will you expect education in that country, how will you expect hope for our future? The ministry has announced a number of appointments. Again, thousands of teachers will be left out. Do schools need teachers? No. Why? The number of staff is limited, that's all they'll say. Then I ask: Why do teachers work in Mamak, Sincan, almost every district of Istanbul, all over the country? Because there is no share in education in the budget, and instead of paying teachers, all rights and labors are being exploited under the name of the charged teacher. These teachers go to classes for hundreds of hours with minimum wage. If there's a teacher at a school who pays more than a staff teacher, then there's a need for a teacher at that school. This is the greatest example of injustice, dear friends. A paid teacher is a tool of exploitation. Such exploitation must be immediately abandoned and given the teachers the positions they deserve. One of the bleeding wounds is the age-appropriate thing in retirement. My dear friends, this is very important. It's been a long time since the retirement age was on the agenda. The demands of about 5 million citizens who were insured before 1999 and then retired due to age are not met by the government. Labour Minister Faruk Çelik has announced that the work has begun, but Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek suggests that Turkey's budget cannot handle such a burden. The government is bookkeeping everything, and it can't account for a single conscience, dear friends. Thousands, millions of people can't afford the rights they've earned. The government, which regulates everything by killing them for the benefit of the capital, has nothing to do with the downtrodden, the poor, the victim, for some reason. These people, whose numbers are expressed in millions, want it to be removed, saying they were victimized by the government. They've been out on the street recently; they've been organized on social media; they haven't heard their voices; they've had meetings, they've written letters to the Prime Minister, they haven't done it again. Now, dear friends, we're dealing with a very bad picture, they've started their open strike, and there's no sound again. There is a serious pollution of information that is common in the press. A minister passes the microphone to that minister, a minister to this minister. We look at the ministers when they're asked who's old enough, even in their mandatory response, the government has launched a study. You're looking at it, and there's nothing there. Let him make fun of these people, let him hope, and then stop destroying those hopes, Minister. When we think of the average life in our country, will these people's demands be met in the grave? What needs to be done is to find a formula that won't be a victim to all those citizens and make people breathe at once. We can't solve this tragedy by burying our heads in the ground like ostriches. Sign a decision that you can use in accordance with the concept of justice, which is called your party. Or explain to these retired citizens that you immediately removed the concept of justice. Because the injustice of pensioners has come to an important point in this sense. If the non-assigned teachers have reached the point of suicide, if the pensioners have reached the point of suicide and have begun their death fasts, the government must repair the process. Once again, I call upon the government here, and I say, in the interest of never bringing this matter of pensioners back here, get through this process. If you don't solve the problem of pensioners who are old, they will, of course, fight more effectively in this process, but the important thing is, do they have to go out on the street or do they have to go on a death fast or commit suicide? After he's dead, they'll be questioned? It's our duty to find a cure for this today. My dear friends, we refer to them as teachers who can't remember, but we need to look at them as teachers who don't have an appointment. Because the government is moving resources to a lot of places, getting money to a lot of places, investing in a lot of places in that sense, not investing in people. Open the people who really trained this country, miserable. Most of these people, old pensioners in the market, when they're in a position to take what's left of them out of the trash cans after the market, that's the concrete sign of your view of people in this country, dear friends. It's the government's duty to fix this, your duty, Parliament's duty. You keep bringing it up. It's your duty to do what you have to do instead of saying. Otherwise, let's not bring it in, let's look into it. Instead of actually locking on to the problem, why do you bring these problems here? It is the greatest injustice, the greatest evasive exercise. It is this House's duty to create radical solutions instead of these flings. With these feelings, I express once again that we are in favor of the motion, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0025par0058	Thank you. The People's Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Kemalettin Aydın is a member of the Silver House.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0026par0061	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the motion to investigate the problems of the non-assigned teachers and to investigate the measures to be taken. As a teacher's child and a person who has five teachers in her family and who is also a faculty member, I am unable to make promises against the rights given to teachers, but I have made a promise against this investigation by stating my opinion on the necessity of the proposed parliamentary research. For all of us to come to these days, it is possible for our children to reach tomorrow, with their children to grow up in Turkey in the coming centuries, to move Turkey, developed, and, as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk had said, to carry it upon the troubled civilizations, we have the utmost respect for the work of teachers, and all the shape and structure of our future is possible by the knowledge of education that our teachers will give to our children, and by the way that the dough is produced. In this way, ever since we came to power, all of our teachers' rights, working conditions and teachers... we feel obliged to provide all kinds of services... as a political power... to provide both economic and social services... to the boarding school of students who were unable to reach the first stage -- the economic contribution given to the mother -- to the boarding school and secondary school, and then to the universities in all of our provinces. Why did I take a word against this congressional investigation? Because when we look at the ten-year process, the fact that Turkey has been transferred to training 4+4+4, the obligatory 12 years of education in many countries over the decades, the mandatory resolving of imam-traveling problems, the consolidation of upper secondary schools, the dissolution of school contribution points and coefficients, the teaching of the life of the Quran and Prophet Lord, and the introduction of many elective classes in many countries around the world, are the beginnings of innovations in education. Of course, I'm not going to talk about the problems that have been solved with economics here, where hundreds of schools, buildings, and physical conditions are renewed, such as the smart board, where teacher problems are discussed. I can only share these problems with you by giving you an example of a city that had been neglected for 90 years. Up until five years ago, in our 70th ranking in Turkey's university winning ranking, the number of students per class in primary school today is 21, and many of our children have been in Turkey's top 10 · Global Voices in winning the university for the past five years. So when our teachers had problems, there were problems with children living in Asia Minor and with those families. Of course, with families, the infrastructure of education has been resolved while problems are being sorted out in order. Again, we all had kids read it. Eight years ago, we would have queued at the stationery store; if math, Turkish, social books come in, set aside for me. But our child who started elementary school today will soon find his book on his desk, his iPad, or his tablet computer. There's no need to mention the budget, because where we're going to discuss teacher issues, it's possible that Turkey knows its education, with a 536 per cent increase in budget, is ranked 1. Again, all families know how important national education from 7.6 per cent to 11 per cent is for Turkey, for the EC PARTI authorities. In addition, we are proud to say that our teachers, especially in a course of justice and equality of opportunity, have contributed a great deal, and that ten years ago, ten percent difference in schooling between their daughters and their boys, are now equal to 98.76 per cent and 86. Many other reasons can be said, but let's not forget that more than 50 percent of the 750 thousand working teachers were taken in our time of power and taken to the extent promised by our Prime Minister. At the moment, our Ministry of National Education has set a teacher deficit of around 128000, and at this rate the teacher's deficit will be completed as soon as possible. We, the AK PARTI authorities, are convinced that with the awareness that we will entrust the country's future to youth, youth will take Turkey to good places with an education from modern, modern, knowledge-level teachers who benefit from the knowledge technologies of the new century. Whatever our teachers think they deserve, whatever we think they deserve, and mutual agreements we're going to hand them over to them, as far as the country's budget allows, within the pace of the Parliament's work, and because our Ministry of National Education and our government -- from their schedules -- is a government that understands and solves all the problems, I find that I do not approve of the opening of the motion to investigate in this brief period of time, that I do not find it appropriate, and that I respect and respect and respect to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0027par0073	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0028par0074	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0027par0075	You've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'll do it. Mr. Cloud, you have a request, for what?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0029par0077	Sir, the speaker said what I said...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0027par0078	Can you explain it to me standing up, please, Congressman, out loud?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0029par0079	Sir, the speaker twisted my testimony, and I want to make it clear to him from where I'm sitting.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0027par0080	What did he say, what did he twist?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0029par0081	I mean, the unassigned teacher explained that the problem was not possible, that my statements were not true.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0027par0082	Here you are, requesting your position.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0029par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to express to the Supreme Assembly the result of our competition in the international competition, called the PlSA. According to PISA results, five of the most successful countries in the world are Finland, South Korea, the Netherlands, Japan and Canada. According to this, the five most unsuccessful countries are Portugal, Italy, Greece, Turkey and Mexico. According to these results, our country has only exceeded Mexico in the OECD countries. That's the level of international competition in education with the crooked education system, with the lack of teachers, with paid teachers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0030par0088	Thank you. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 27/6/2013 (today), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkes and his friends gave Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AKP Government's (AKP) protests on the Turkish Parliament on 11/6/2013 to investigate the religious symbols of their own policies by trying to adapt them to their own policies. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read and held in the same date jointly during Thursday's 27/6/2013 session. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, İhsan Özkes, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Republican People's Party Group's research motion. I salute you all. The acts of the Traveling Park are only against the worship of men, and a resistance to the devourers of orphans. The people say, "That's enough, we're human beings, we have rights; we're not slaves, we're not slaves." Travel Park activists were told to attack the congregation coming out of mosques at Miraç Kandili, but it was written that the Miraç Kandili in the Travel Park was distributed, the lamp bagels were offered to the police, the Koran was read, the Qur'an was prayed, the prayer was prayed, the prayer was silenced, the mass was held on Friday prayer, the prayers were held, and the headscarved for the peace of those who prayed, and the heads were moved with the activists, and the headscarriers were treated with respect and respect. When those who were jealous of all this, and saw that religion, and division of faith, would not hold their snares, those who were angry were angry with the pure and courageous young ones. Reckless slanders, accusations were made against the activists to provoke them. Perhaps social events and chaos would have happened if a few discreet televisions had not shown on screens the desperation of victims and oppressed youths who had taken refuge in mosques, where they had been treated, if our beloved nation had not seen the truth, believing in the Prime Minister and not been able to make amends. Almighty God has saved our country from a great disaster, with the leniency of our people who are not provoked. Enmity and revenge were stolen from young people who took refuge in the mosque with their lives in order to get rid of police pressure water, pepper spray, baton, kick. I was a Mufti of Beyoğlu in 1999-2002, at Beyoğlu's Mufti, at Dolmabahçe Mosque. I preached in the Dolmabahçe Mosque, and I know it well. It's not a place of residence. They are not allowed to take refuge in the Dolmabahçe Palace in the vicinity. There's no place there but a mosque where they can take refuge. If there were a church in the place of the mosque, they would enter into the church, and if there were a synagogue, they would enter into the synagogue. There was no choice but the mosque so they wouldn't enter the mosque. Why have you come to the mosque to those who have no choice but to seek refuge in the mosque, to those who seek refuge in the mosque? There must be no fear of God and no love of man in order to take a stand? What could be more natural than the protection of God's servants into the homes of God? Is it possible to put the pets of vinegar in the eyes of activists who seek refuge in mosques into religion? Those who don't mind the American soldiers destroying the mosque and tearing down the Koran in Adana are throwing up a grudge against the pure son of a country who has taken refuge in the mosque. The American soldiers the Prime Minister had prayed for safe return to their homes were destroying mosques in Iraq, burning down mosques, taking off their shoes, drinking zemzem water? Why is Tarik Hashimi, who was tried for bombing mosques in Iraq, being welcomed as kings in Turkey? A man killed an imam in a mosque in the conqueror's mosque, and when the congregation all killed him in the mosque, did it make any noise? On the other hand, does anyone make a sound of political propaganda, hypocrisy, vanity, theft, corruption in mosques? Of course, the person who drinks in the mosque cannot be called a man, but he was drunk when he was not drunk. If the Dolmabahçe Mosque had been drinking, Recep Erdogan would have shown these images on huge screens in the rally squares, and some of the media would have aired them 24 hours a day without taking a commercial break. Prime Minister, at the party's group meeting on 11 June 2013, you will enter the Bezm-i Alem Valide Sultan Mosque in your shoes, where you will drink, and you will do this disrespect to the religious temples of this country. For what? In the name of the environment. You're going to threaten the muezzin of the mosque, and then you're going to make him talk differently. What didn't happen? We've got all the footage, and we'll give it to our friends on Friday. And he said: All these things shall my people see; and all these things shall we offer unto our people. It's been two weeks since Friday, where's the footage? If you've got the footage, why don't you show it? Is there really no such thing, or is it still being edited? Who put the empty and kissed beer bottle in the window of the mosque? What vices have they committed in the mosque? Why don't you explain what immorality was committed in the mosque and in that turmoil? If such a thing does not exist, what wicked ones have exposed such immorality? The clergy well know that lying and faith do not come together. They won't lie if they're forced to. Let us uphold right and truth by respecting and loving the imamams that are in the way of Imamazam. In Islam, people are equal as the teeth of a comb. Allah, the Lord, commandeth, and commandeth, that the mosques and the mosques belong unto Allah. The mosques are not the Prime Minister's monopoly, nor his father's property. The mosques are the sacred values of 76 million of our people. Every one of those legendary teenagers has the right to enter that mosque as much as the Prime Minister. They do not worship God in the mosque and obey the outside forces in his courtyard. Who are those who are in league with the enemies whom the milkman Imam had fired? Who's the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project? Who's getting the Jewish Supreme Courage Award? The prime minister says he doesn't see the headdressed woman with the baby. Really, no one's seeing this? No surveillance footage, no witnesses? Again, is there no evidence of the allegations of the Koran course students in Kadıköy, Suadiye, or are dreams made to look real? The Prime Minister is using our supreme religion as a means of oppression for his own domination. We just have to feed them a million tweets. Are we not a part of this nation, or are we not Muslims? Don't we have besmells? You've already done what we call the law. Know well that God is devising your plots. Is it fair for the sake of the vote to have God's revelations made political instruments in meetings, to be used for their rule? In 2013, God did not send the verses read at the rally squares to Erdoğan, but sent them to Muhammad the Holy One a thousand and four hundred years ago.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0032par0116	What kind of analogy are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0117	The Almighty didn't send our religion, so that Recep Erdogan could say, "Din, faith, mosque, Koran, " to rule, to divide the people, to differentiate, to create oppression and intimidation.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0032par0118	What kind of metaphor is that?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0119	As he struggles to rule the people, he says, "God is the Prophet. " The mosque is trying to solve every problem with the Koran. He still hasn't stopped being the skater he used to wear the headscarf and eat. When justice and equality fail, equality is only in its stone, he says. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When the people suffer from hunger, thirst, despair, patience. He says, "Yes, Fettah."
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0033par0123	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0124	Every time he got stuck, it was the easiest and simplest way to say faith. The harder he makes the country, the more religion, faith, mosque, and the Qur'an, the more he tries to get away with it.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0034par0125	Get in there, get in there!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0033par0126	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0127	We know that the louder you shout, the harder it is for you to believe.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0033par0129	Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0130	He's exploiting our spiritual values in terms of his weakness and lack of governance. Even AKP voters are tired of watching the same movie.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0035par0131	Get in there, get in there!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0033par0132	Mr. Ozkes, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0031par0133	Do not stretch these people out, neither divide them, nor separate them, but avoid hatred, and fear God, and turn to Him in repentance. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0033par0137	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0036par0138	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0033par0139	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0036par0140	Sir, from what I've seen and what we've read, the Republican People's Party's group proposal was given by the EC PARTI government's abuse of religion in politics, by the abuse of religion by the EC PARTI.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0037par0141	You don't?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0036par0142	It's none of your business. I'm not answering you, I'm talking to the president. Quiet!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0037par0143	You guys go ahead and talk.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0036par0144	Mr. Speaker used religious politics from the beginning to the end of his speech and insulted our Prime Minister in this regard. I want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0038par0145	I promise you two minutes, Mr. Gardendoor, please don't give me any more trouble. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0036par0147	Recep will speak in private.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0039par0148	Although the Supreme Court has a ruling on the closure, Mr. President. In 2008, the Constitutional Court ruled that AKP had abused religion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0036par0149	The Constitutional Court decided he embezzled money 16 years ago.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0039par0150	But the preacher was right, the Supreme Court has a verdict.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0153	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. Just now, speaking on behalf of the CHP Group -- I think it's an ex-Mufti -- from the beginning of his speech to the end of his speech, he shared the insult in front of the public, in a way that would not suit our Prime Minister, our President, a mufti, and in a way that would be incompatible with his mufti. Firstly, it belongs to the wicked one, the wicked one, and We shall restore it all to you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0041par0157	What promise?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0158	On the other hand, they wrote an epic story about young people entering the mosque, young people entering with their shoes, young people drinking there, young people who are clean and brave.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0042par0159	Why did you interrogate Muezzin for six hours, Mr. Recep?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0160	Where... did I preach in that mosque? You say, you spoke against the sanctity of that temple you preached in, Mr. Hajji.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0043par0161	Why, because it doesn't suit you?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0162	You, the young people there... of course, we don't say anything about the mosque, not all of us, not you, not all of us, not all of us, all of the Muslims, anyone can come in here, and we have a monopoly, but it's a place of worship.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0043par0163	In your monopoly!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0164	Anyone can come down there and do their meetings in the office of decency. But can you come in there and have a drink, go in there in shoes, fit in that temple, something like that?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0044par0165	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0166	Look, Republican People's Party, as a result of these actions, you activists, those who have expressed this march, this protest, you have given the message, now move away from your homes. We'll do it for you as a political institution on the legislature, on the political platform. You can't say that when you're supposed to say what you're going to say. You're still provoking those young people. The young men who walk on Dikmen Street say: "Don't sleep with the Muslim, take care of the drunkard. " Surely you, Mr. Ozkes, will take care of all the drunkards.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0045par0168	Dear Private, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0040par0169	What kind of a statement is that? You young men, don't destroy it, don't break it. That's what we're going to do on the required political platform. If you say, "You can show that virtue," you'll win, and the country will win. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0046par0173	The Prime Minister says, "I'll give you 50 percent. Why don't you stop him, Mr. Recep? People with guns, people with sticks.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0047par0174	Thank you. The marathon's on now.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0047par0177	Mr. Ozkes, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0178	Mr. President, I said some inappropriate things to a mufti.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0047par0179	But you're not a mufti, you're a congressman.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0180	But I'm a retired mufti, sir. So, he must have teased me, I want a say in this, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0047par0181	Two minutes, for bullying, but let's not get fresh with this, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0184	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, now...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0049par0185	Don't talk, don't talk.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0186	I gave a mufti speech, and I said...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0050par0187	You've done what suits you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0188	I said, "Come on, let's go!"
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0050par0189	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0190	I said, "Come on, let's go!"
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0050par0191	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0192	I said, why don't you publish the images?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0050par0193	Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0051par0194	Show some respect, sir, you're talking to a congressman!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0195	I said, "He who drinks at the mosque is not a man, but he who drinks when he does not drink is not a man." [[Interrogation between CHP and AK PARTY]] You guys can't prove they've been drinking in there.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0052par0198	Why can't we? There are pictures.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0199	Have fear of God. Have fear of God. Don't slander me! Muslims don't slander.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0053par0200	You do.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0201	Have you no fear of God? Have you no fear of God?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0054par0202	Teacher, you do, and so do you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0055par0203	Mr. Ozkes, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0204	We're talking about young people who took shelter and threw themselves there. Did American soldiers take off their shoes while destroying mosques in Iraq, burning them down? Then why didn't you say anything?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0056par0206	That's wrong too, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0207	Why didn't you say anything? Why?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0056par0208	That's wrong too.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0209	He prayed to them, your president, he prayed to them. Have fear of God. Shame on you! Do you have a face or a face? What face are you talking to?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0057par0211	Mr. Ozkes, please, let's speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0212	What face are you talking to? You're coming here, like this...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0058par0214	Teacher, do you have a hundred?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0215	Who's got it?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0058par0216	You got a hundred?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0048par0217	Look in the mirror, look in the mirror. You have no fear of God!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0058par0219	Look in the mirror, Hajji!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0059par0220	He who fears God does not defend terrorists. You've become a defender of the DHKP-C.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0060par0221	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Metin Ashünk, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0227	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're actually looking forward to it. Turkey has become a Turkey that speaks 2023, which can speak 2071. A world balance system has emerged that has been carefully monitoring the AK PARTI power, with a global scale of interest. Therefore, my dear friends, keep your dignity, from this stand, to the leader of this country, to the son of this nation that this act has brought forth in the bosom of this nation, no one will be able or will not be able to insult. For him, our leader, the love and tolerance of this country's Prime Minister is greater than the hatred and anger of those who insult him from this stand, let everyone know that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, we are on this stand again to discuss the truth behind the Travel Park, and I have no doubt faith at the point where it is my duty to take a stand against the CHP group proposal.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0062par0231	Who's it for?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0232	Look at what happened in May: the $46 billion airport tender, the $22 billion nuclear energy tender with Japan, the third throat bridge, the index that rose above 93k in the stock market, the central bank's reserves dropped from $135 billion, the indicator interest from 63. Why is that bothering him? Because Turkey has uncovered a Turkey that has managed to survive on its own will, declaring its independence at a financial and economic point with the power of the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0063par0233	With 600 billion debts!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0234	Next thing we know, there's a voice rising from behind the innocent demonstrations. We knew this voice well in Sevr, and we knew what it was to be imposed on this nation in Sevr. Turns out there's a 2013 version of Sevr. Next thing we know, our deputy prime minister says, "Sir, they ordered us to cancel the Bosphorus Bridge, cancel the HESESTs, cancel the nuclear power plants, cancel the Channel İstanbul." They order the airport, sir, cancel the airport." We already knew that mind in Sevr. We thought it was over, and it turns out there's a 2013 version of this mind, and it's got allies in it. (AK PARTY) But they forgot one thing: the first Sevri Mustafa Kemal had taken the fall, and the second Sevr. The prime minister of this country, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, threw him into the garbage of history.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0064par0236	Where were you when your Prime Minister insulted you so much?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0237	I'd like to share with you once again the source of the attack. You're innocent, and you're not smart enough to understand the source of this attack, and you don't have enough ideas.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0064par0238	You guys are so knowledgeable, it's so obvious!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0239	Once again, let me tell you the origin of the attack, and perhaps you'll reflect on it by believing in your good fortune.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0065par0240	Are you Mustafa Kemalci at last?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0241	We're exposing the source of the attack once again. Global finance oligarchy, intelligence organizations of forces who don't want to let go of the unsinking empire.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0066par0242	Can you tell me about North Kurdistan, what do you think about that? That is the real revulsion of Sevr. You guys should see what you need to see.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0243	...an innocent movement that has begun inside has transformed the Travel movement into an intelligence operation by the hands of illegal terrorist organizations, which are the foreign policy apparatus of global capital, global financial oligarchy. You've been a great extra in this game, just like you've been doing throughout history. We saw this game in 1960, we saw it in 1971, we saw it in 1980, we saw it in 1997. The same game has been repeated over and over again. But this time, our nation, watching this game, noticed the game and said, "We are not going to fall into the trap." And he stood back from this game, and he broke this great victory with his great insight, and he left these scenes, which he wanted to be imposed again and again, in the garbage of history. The Turkish state understands an important historical curve in which it lived in 1071, 1453, 1923. Now, the goal is not to be a plague of civilization, but to exceed the level of a complex civilization. There must be a new order. If the seven duvets came together, they would no longer be able to stand in the way of the rise of this nation, by the permission of God.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0066par0245	Who's the BOP Co-Chair, Congressman?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0246	Because this nation has made up its mind, it has broken the game.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0066par0247	Who's cooperating with imperialism?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0248	There's a new government right. The travel operation is once again the Cever of those who wish to bring Turkey to its knees.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0066par0249	Who's the BOP Co-Chair? Who's honored by this?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0250	It's nothing more than a game they've been playing to rattle. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP MPs]] Dear lawmakers, there is a Turkey that has survived economic begging, project production by its enemies. There is a Turkey that is no longer subject to politics, no longer defined. There is no longer Turkey that brings a master of lime from Bulgaria to build their ministry's building. Today there's a Turkey that produces drones. You must first cleanse your mind and your heart to understand that Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of this great march, is the leader of this nation. This time our nation has known to stand firm behind its leader. To Alparslan, to Fatih, to Mustafa Kemal, to be done, to be kept alive...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0066par0253	You're remembering Mustafa Kemal now! You remember!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0061par0254	...this nation has never allowed this to happen to our leader, and it will not. Now look how this nation has put the travel process behind them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, I will share your work with this nation's work. Look, Republican People's Party rows, this is your work.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0067par0257	Show me the mosque, the mosque.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0068par0258	Pictures of terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0069par0259	Who put up Abdullah Ocalan posters on March 21st in Diyarbakir?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0070par0260	Look, this is your work. This is your work.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0069par0261	He's still in the police force...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0071par0262	Shame on you, you're defending this!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0069par0263	...Why don't you stand up to him in Cizre? You're cheating here, you're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0071par0264	Look at you, you should be ashamed!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0265	Look, Congressman, in this geography, the fate of the Turks and Kurds is one.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0069par0266	That's what we're saying, but they're talking about Northern Kurdistan right now, so why don't you shut up?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0267	You wanted to distinguish this fate from your mentality. Your nationalist mission will never be able to distinguish that fate. In this geography, the fate of the Kurds with the fate of the Turks...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0069par0268	I gave up the nation's state. You say. Oh, my God, you're going to divide Turkey!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0269	...the fate of the Turks and the fate of the Arabs in this geography, the fate of the Turks, the fate of the Bosniaks, the fate of the Albanians, the Alekis, you will not be able to distinguish it.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0073par0270	You're the one who pulled it apart!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0069par0271	You're trying to destroy them, you're trying to destroy that union.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0272	Look, here's your, here's your, here's your Travel Park.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0074par0274	Look, look, look, teacher!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0275	Look, your Travel Park is here. Look, your Travel Park is here, look. Haven't you had enough?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0075par0276	Don't do too much...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0277	Now, look, now, precious lawmakers, do you want me to show you the nation's Travel Park? Okay, here you go. This is everyone's Travel Park. Please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0076par0279	Look, look, look! See, sir?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0077par0280	Are you showing me what you're doing?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0281	Look, this is Turkey's Anatolian Travel Park. See, the laborer, how he sweats hard to build what you've soiled and destroyed, give him a round of applause, honorable lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0078par0283	If it wasn't for those people owning it, you'd be destroying that park, washing trees.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0079par0284	Mr. Ashy, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0285	Look, the monument of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Where are you?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0078par0286	It wouldn't have happened if people hadn't claimed it.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0287	You soiled it, we cleaned it. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, the final photo: this is Turkey! Here's the truth of Turkey, which we uncovered on top of what you've contaminated.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0080par0291	Show me the pepper spray, show me the TOMA!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0072par0292	My respects, respected lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0081par0294	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0082par0295	You're fooling yourself, that's not the truth!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0296	Mr. President, in his oratory speech -- so on and on and on -- he's done a lot of bullying on our party, so he's accused us of polluting the environment, and he's accused us of involvement with terrorist organizations. Shall I tell you more, Mr. President? I mean, in the fate of the Turks, in the fate of the Kurds...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0081par0297	Mr. Altay, you're just getting started, of course you will.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0298	I demand a word, naturally.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0081par0299	Here, I promise you two minutes for teasing.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0302	Mr. President, thank you. I don't know how much I can answer in two minutes. If you remind our young friends of the Civil Charter, the 157, 158, 160.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0084par0304	That'd be great. They turned it into a show. Is this a theater scene?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0305	Members of parliament is the seat of parliament, where the prime minister will be criticised, criticised the most in a country. You'll get used to it. What we're saying about the Prime Minister is that we don't eat your reaction to what our orators say, sometimes depending on your numerical majority, your efforts to create psychological pressure, and we never eat it, I say in advance. Today is my first day on duty.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0085par0307	Talk about Travel Park!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0308	I'm proud of the Travel Park. I wouldn't trade the eyes of a child who lost an eye to a thousand burning buses in the Travel Park!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0085par0310	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0311	I'm proud of the Travel Park.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0086par0312	What about the burning flag?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0087par0313	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0314	What the prime minister said about Egypt's President Mubarak (Egyptian President Mubarak) came to this day on his own. Anyway, we talk about this a lot. You can't turn the Travel Park process to your advantage by showing various photos here. Turkey's...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0088par0316	Look at the tweets from the Regents.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0317	Don't let the Prime Minister hear you, there's trouble called Twitter. Don't practice your mouth on Twitter, you'll get a brush later.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0088par0318	Look at the insults tweeted by the Regents.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0319	Congressmans, I repeat...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0088par0320	So, the insult is free on Twitter?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0321	...that we couldn't build the branch office. Tell me, how much rent does the Ministry of Environment deposit a month in Çukurambar? Have him respond if the relevant Ministry is here.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0088par0322	We're building a new building.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0323	There are facts of Turkey here, but I don't have time for them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to point out that we're going to bring up all the wrongs the Prime Minister has done here and you're going to listen calmly, otherwise this Parliament's working order will be eliminated. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0089par0328	You'll shut down the CHP at this rate.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0083par0329	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0330	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0091par0331	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0332	Mr. Ozkes, after you. Mr. Ashy, I'm not talking to you, sir. Sit down, please. Let me ask Mr. Ozkes what he wants to say, and then...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0091par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0336	Congressmans, please... Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0091par0338	Mr. President, the AKP speaker has completely distorted the research motion given by me and my friends.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0092par0340	We're gonna tell everybody.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0341	I'm listening, sir. Go ahead.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0093par0342	Mr. President, tell this congressman our friend something.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0343	Mr. Sergeant, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0094par0344	The secretary has distorted the research motion I've submitted, so I'd like a say, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0095par0345	Does he have a say in what he's saying when he's twisting it, sir? Where's it twisted?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0346	Mr. Altay asked me to make a promise and I gave it to him. It's a group issue, we've had talks about it. I made a promise first because of your bullying. There's no bullying in the next speech, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0094par0347	Sir, he must have picked on her according to 69.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0348	No, I don't, sir. Mr. Altay asked me to make a promise and I gave it to him.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0096par0349	Deputy Director of the Group, on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0094par0350	He spoke for the group. I'm asking you for a say in the motion to investigate.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0351	It's not proper, sir. Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0094par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0354	Mr. Ozkes, my word is out of the question, Mr. Altay has asked me to make a promise, and I have. End of story. Mr. Ashy, you're welcome.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0097par0356	As for Mr. Altay's sentences regarding our Prime Minister, I would like to make a promise to answer the sentences he has expressed in my speech as a Fulcrum.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0090par0357	It's in the transcripts, thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Ali Uzırmak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0363	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favour of the Republican People's Party's motion to open a parliamentary investigation on the grounds that Mr. Prime Minister has used religion as an instrument for the events of the Travel Park. My deepest regards to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share something with you right at the beginning of my speech. Politics is an act of promise as well as its practices. So, what I'd like to remind you right away is that the word is a prisoner until it comes out of the mouth, but if it's a man, then he's a prisoner of that promise after the word is out of his mouth. Therefore, it is important for a politician to focus on his own conscience as he pursues the effects and improvements of his word after the word is out of the question. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is actually living a Turnusol because of the Travel Park incident. Here, from the politicians, from the rulers, from the pressure groups, to our citizens, there are lessons for everyone to learn, even individuals, dear friends, until they reach the parliamentarians. If we don't learn this lesson, Turkey will continue to be in a state of disarray. Dear lawmakers, in our words, history reminds us of times when our actions shed light. At the time of Ziya Pasha's reign, he says: I know two Ali's brave. First of all, Your Holiness Ali. He was not afraid of anyone, but he was very brave, and he feared God. The second I knew, I knew someone braver than him, Captain Ali Pasha. He is braver than Ali the Lord, as he fears no one, because Ali the Lord was afraid of Allah, and our Captain Ali Pasha is not afraid of God.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0099par0367	Tell me what you mean.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0368	So, in our words, in our actions, to strive to be braver than Ali the Lord...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0099par0369	What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0370	...is an act of commonity, dear friends. So, in the circumstances of our country today, Travel Park has shown how fragile it is if the government and opposition are able to get rid of a challenge and make the right assessments. Dear MPs, you may believe that you're doing good work, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm very well-intentioned to these criticisms. But they don't mean to be taken into account, dear friends. Look how fragile our country is. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, economically, the money that came out today and...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0100par0373	They don't understand!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0374	...if you consider the hot money Turkey needs, is there a deputy who can still claim that the Turkish economy does not retain its vulnerability? Dear friends, the loan has been paid to the IMF. We can argue a lot here, we don't have enough time, but the debt to the IMF is 21 billion dollars. $42 billion in privatisation has been made in this country, $42 billion in assets sold, if you can tell. The stockpile of private sectors and public debt has come from $220 billion in domestic and external dollars today, valuable friends and Turkey, and they don't lend money in foreign trade by selling what they've produced; on the contrary, you come to these days by breaking the foreign trade deficits in the republic's history monthly and year-on-year. Look, dear friends, we live happily ever after with money. The domestic savings rate in Turkey's growth is 12 per cent, so in the 100 lira loan used, growth, the investment of a businessman is 88 lira in foreign money. So, can you tell me that this economy isn't fragile, that the economy of a country where foreign trade exceeds $10 billion a month, breaks the annual republic's historical record is not fragile? Be serious and sit straight, speak straight, dear friends. So, in Turkey -- again -- with the IMF debt being paid, okay, right, the person has been paid off, but the address of the debt has been changed and the amount of debt has been raised. If you say "Ekonomy" right before you see it, then Turkey is headed for disaster. Mr. President says we have to import 86 cents to export $1. So when energy, financing, labor, even more burdens are put on, Turkey is practically working for nothing. Therefore, you have no right to brag to me, dear friends, to pay me a loan that foreign trade doesn't give me a bonus. So, very valued lawmakers, from a democratic standpoint, did you realize that democracy was so fragile that you had hanged it immediately, at work, and you had poisoned Ozal, and we didn't feed it. Did you realize that democracy had been in power for ten years, and that you were so afraid? You've been in power for ten years, you've signed decrees for decades, you've been running the state for ten years. Why are you so concerned about the fragility of this democracy, dear lawmakers? Still...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0101par0379	Don't you know we've been fighting coupgers for ten years?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0380	I know more than you know. Because he had the record intelligence that Mr. Prime Minister had signed the decision of the Chief of Staff for decades, and he referred the Chief of Staff to court as the head of the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0101par0381	We've been fighting coupgers for ten years: sledgehammer, moonlight, Yakamoz...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0382	I guess the Prime Minister doesn't know himself, he says he's resting in the room. This country's Chief of Staff's office is bugged, no perpetrators.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0102par0383	Yeah, he doesn't know his room! He doesn't know what's going on in Turkey!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0384	Dear lawmakers, what comes out of our mouths must bind us. What verbs did the Prime Minister challenge come to fruition from his mouth? In ten years, the 10-year-old is 21 today. Thirty years of terror has been going on for thirty years, you say, ten years of your precious friends. Aren't you ashamed! I mean, when you're using arguments, you're paying attention to things that come out of your mouth, and you're taking the consequences.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0103par0385	We're trying to end the terror, and you're against it!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0386	Dear friends, are you satisfied with Turkey's social peace? Can you tell me that social peace is not fragile? You're showing some pictures, today...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0103par0387	Tell the social peace breakers, not us.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0098par0388	Don't be a midwife! Don't be a midwife, something else will happen!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0103par0389	Please, other things! Please, other things!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0104par0390	Anything, shut up! You'll see what happens!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0103par0391	Please, please!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0105par0392	Shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0393	You see these pictures? This is the country's...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0107par0394	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0395	You're going to take care of yourself, you're going to use proper language from there, and you're not going to scream, "It won't hurt, it won't hurt."
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0108par0396	You're yelling yourself! You've been yelling for ten minutes!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0397	You'll see when I get off the stand, when I get off the stand!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0108par0398	What am I gonna see? What am I gonna see?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0399	Now that I'm on the stand, I'm sorry I can't be busy with you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0109par0400	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0401	These pictures are pictures of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0110par0402	You're showing fake pictures!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0111par0403	Your work is pictures of Turkey, which you manage.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0404	In these pictures -- look -- he still controls bandits on the road, builds his own security power, builds police power, distributes diplomas, see them first.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0112par0405	Partners. Partners. Your coalition partner is the PKK!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0406	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you can't figure it out, and that's because you can't figure it out. At prayer, we resist with dignity. Let them tweet a million tweets, one of our five will ruin their game. Let them burn it, let them destroy it, and let them plunder it. Our only plan is to frustrate it. Let them enter the mosques in shoes, and let them drink in mosques, and let them do other things.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0113par0407	Who are they?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0408	Mr. Prime Minister, are you the Prime Minister or the head of honor?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0114par0409	Don't defend terrorists!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0106par0410	You're raising the army to attack?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0115par0411	Mr. Longhorn, please, let's speak in a clear language.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0116par0412	Who are they?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0117par0413	You're an attorney for the DHKP/CL!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0116par0414	Who are you?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0415	Members of parliament, this is the style of a politician who would not look good on the Prime Minister. Last word...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0119par0417	Look at your language!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0120par0418	He's gonna pray for the U.S. military, and then he's gonna talk about the market!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0419	Turkey's most important problem, Mr. Prime Minister's reputation, has turned to dictatorial ambitions because the Prime Minister's reputation exceeds his capacity.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0121par0420	Mr. President, he can't call the Prime Minister a dictator, you have to stop him.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0421	For he is not able to rule.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0122par0422	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0423	For him, to prevent Turkey from leading Turkey to a disaster with such rhetoric, religious feelings, other abuses, because it is beyond its capacity, the Assembly will investigate and guide...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0123par0425	You're insulting me, don't be offended. You're saying! Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0426	Again, no offense, dear friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The House will lead...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0123par0429	You're going to insult me, and you're going to say, "Don't be offended."
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0430	Thank you, I say I'm in favor of the proposal, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0123par0432	Shame on you! Does it look good on you? You say what you mean.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0118par0433	I didn't say it as much as the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0124par0434	Please, Mr. Tallie...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0435	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0124par0436	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0437	Mr. President, he's been acting in a manner of speaking about our group president. He's not listening to what he's saying. He's referred the Prime Minister of General Staff to the court. He uses many, many kinds of statements, such as that.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0124par0438	Here you are, Mr. Aydın, two minutes for bullying. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] But, please, let's not get into any more bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, when someone's talking on the stand, I think Turkey still thinks it's old Turkey. Turkey is not that Turkey that you handed over, Turkey is no longer Turkey that we took over ten and a half years ago. In economics, in education, in health, in justice, in democratization, Turkey is not that old Turkey, but know this.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0126par0445	What did you do, positive? Tell me that!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0446	We accept criticism, but no one has the right to be insulted. We are people who believe, in the way that we believe, in the direction that people have drawn us, we say whatever we need without fear, without hesitation, and we do it with this nation as we have done so far.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0127par0448	To the extent that America allows!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0449	The important thing is that he comes to this nation with a heart and a promise, and he comes here to work on the solution to the problems of the nation; he puts forth effort, offers, projects.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0128par0450	We're gonna learn from you?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0451	Turkey is no longer a Turkey that owes $23.5 billion to the IMF, which you handed over. Turkey is no longer a Turkey where those banks are being embezzled. Turkey is no longer Turkey, whose national income is $3,500 per person. Turkey is up to 135 billion dollars today, not Turkey, which has nothing left in its central bank currency reserve.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0128par0452	You're talking nonsense, it's empty!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0125par0453	You owe to the officer, we pay the officer's debt; you lend to the worker; we pay the laborer's debts; you lend to the IMF; we pay the debt.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0129par0454	Lies, lies, lies!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0130par0455	You picked it up and gave it away.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0131par0456	They've sunk the banks.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0132par0457	From one side of your era, banks are sinking, now banks are getting stronger, these people are getting stronger. It's a country that's tripled in every way.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0131par0458	They can't digest it.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0132par0459	From that point of view, dear friends, please consider the Prime Minister a thousand times and speak a little more carefully. I am prepared to drink hemlock poison for this nation, a Prime Minister who is in the direction of this nation. For a Prime Minister who says, "You have no right to make those speeches, nor do you. It's not your place to talk about it, you can't talk like that.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0133par0461	Don't talk, get down, sit down!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0132par0462	You talk about the fragility of the Turkish economy, the world is on fire, friends, the biggest countries in the world, the biggest banks are sinking. But isn't Turkey one of the two most growing countries in the world?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0134par0464	Lies! Wrong! Lies!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0132par0465	Why is this bothering you? Be proud of where this nation is coming from.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0135par0467	Tapeyo Pehlivan, come on!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0134par0468	Come on, Tapeyo, come on, let's go! Keep playing the tape!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0136par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0134par0470	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0137par0471	No, one of you is going to want a promise. Now...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0138par0472	There's no bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0139par0473	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0140par0474	Who do you mean by "you"?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0141par0475	I didn't insult you, I didn't curse you, it's what it is.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0142par0476	Mr. President, I'd like to explain the fact that the IMF has been falsely accused of accusing the government and my party, which I am the minister of.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0143par0477	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying. But let's not make a new tease.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0142par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I invite you all to come to my senses and to understand the truth.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0144par0481	Faruk Bey, you wouldn't have fallen under the dam.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0142par0482	The 18th Stand-by Agreement was held during the 57th Government, a $24 billion deal. This $24 billion deal...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0145par0483	Why did you go to the election?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0142par0484	Shut up! Listen to me!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0146par0486	Just hear me out, bro!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0147par0487	How unbearable you are!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0142par0488	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0148par0489	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker. Please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0142par0490	I don't...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0149par0491	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0150par0492	We're asking a question!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0149par0493	Oh, my God, that doesn't look good on you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0151par0494	Listen! Listen, understand and come to the truth!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0496	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0151par0498	Mr. President, I'm out of time, but...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0499	I understand, but what am I supposed to do, I mean, I can't go down and stop the MPs.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0153par0500	Warning, sir, warning!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0151par0501	Sir, I'm out of time.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0502	Please... it's not me.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0151par0503	Reboot my time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0504	I can't, sir. No, we don't have that app.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0151par0505	Mr. President, please restart my time.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0506	I understand, Mr. Honey, it's not because of me, sir. I didn't interrupt you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0151par0507	Look, I haven't been able to talk for a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0154par0508	You're limiting our right to know, Mr. President. We'd like to hear the call.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0509	I have not extended the word of any congressman due to the debate, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0155par0511	Mr. President, I can't speak because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0512	I know, I know.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0155par0513	Since I can't talk... 38 seconds left, what am I supposed to tell you?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0156par0514	Mr. President, Mr. Ahmet Aydın has to make a statement as Minister of the 57th Republic, which has been enslaving us.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0515	I promised, sir, he's making a statement.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0156par0516	Let our friend tell us.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0157par0517	What are they gonna do? You're gonna get us thrown in there?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0518	What am I supposed to do, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0158par0519	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0157par0520	If you're going to shut us up! You're going to kill him! What are you gonna do? What do you think you're doing?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0152par0521	No, what am I supposed to do? Tell me, I'll do it, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0157par0522	So what are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0159par0523	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0160par0525	Reboot the clock, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0161par0526	I get it, but calling too many won't do it. Whatever I have to do...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0162par0527	You promise, you don't make me talk.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0161par0528	Call all you want, that's not the answer.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0163par0529	But let's just...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0164par0530	I asked him, "Why did you go to the election?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0165par0531	The TOMAs will come! You're bringing a TOMA! What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0166par0532	When you talk about other parties, your deputies do the same thing, everybody does the same thing to each other.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0165par0533	You watch, you listen, we follow.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0166par0534	It's as if you're not different from each other, and I'm very clear, with his power and opposition. Please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0167par0535	Mr. President, restart the clock.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0166par0536	It's out of the question, sir. No, we don't have that app, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0168par0537	Sir, we will show that there will be no persecution.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0169par0538	What kind of app is that?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0166par0539	Mr. Honey, it wasn't me, sir. You weren't going to listen to sarcasm, you were going to continue.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0169par0541	I did.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0170par0542	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0171par0543	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0172par0544	Mr. President, it is your duty to ensure peace in the General Assembly. If there's no negotiating time, if there's no negotiation, you can't continue.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0170par0545	If there's a noise, you have to take a break.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0172par0546	What kind of a thing is that? Then nobody talks on this stand.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0173par0547	Mr. President, this is the MP's bench.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0174par0548	Go ahead without the microphone, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0172par0549	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0175par0550	Let's have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0551	I've been promised here for bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0177par0552	I've warned you so many times.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0553	You interrupted me for 10 seconds without talking, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0177par0554	I didn't interrupt, sir, I just warned them. Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0555	I'm not leaving this podium until I've used my two-minute phone call.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0178par0556	They can't stand it!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0177par0557	Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0559	Please give me my due, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0177par0560	I've updated your time. Please come in.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0561	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0177par0563	Shut up, bro! Please!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0564	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm here to share a fact with you. Yes, the 18th Stand-by Agreement was held during the 57th Government, for a loan agreement of about $24 billion. Six billion dollars were used in our government's time, and the rest were used by the AKP government with letters of intent. By 2004, this agreement has a deadline. Another deal was made in 2004. Then who was in power? The AKP was formed by the AKP Government of the 19th Stand-by Agreement. During our 18th Stand-by Agreement, we had two earthquakes, two crises in Turkey where the sea had run out, the economy had landed.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0179par0566	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0176par0567	Therefore, Turkey needed this loan as a government of progress against the challenges of the coalition governments, as a solution government, and 6 billion dollars was used in the time of our government. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, we've paid their debt. You're the one who used the debt, you're the 19th Stand-by Agreement. By repeating the word of the prime minister, who came up here, who was not wise, you are bringing the word of Goebbels to the public as unclean information. If you repeat the lie ten times, it becomes what it really is. So, I invite you to share this dirty information, and I invite friends who lie about the IMF to face themselves and their consciences. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0180par0571	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0181par0572	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0182par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0181par0574	I asked for it. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0182par0575	Mr. President, I specifically...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0183par0576	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0181par0577	Now, Mr. Aydın, you screwed it up, you borrowed it, we fixed it. I didn't mean "CHP." If he says "I don't want a word," I don't want a word, but his hand was on the CHP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0183par0578	No, he didn't mean the Republican People's Party, he meant...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0181par0579	No, let him tell me, Mr. President, I saw his hand.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0184par0580	I used my statement, however they perceive it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0181par0581	Then I demand word.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0185par0582	Mr. Altay, please, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0186par0584	Mr. President, the CHP is not in power.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0187par0585	Why did you put it on?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0186par0586	How do you know the conscience of an impotent party?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0188par0587	Mr. Engin, it'd be better if you didn't start like this.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0189par0589	I wish, but I must warn you, young friends...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0190par0590	Why are you taking it personally?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0189par0591	You will be open to criticism from this bench. Calling the Prime Minister "Dictator" is a very political criticism, not an insult. As a matter of fact, I think the Prime Minister is the greatest dictator in recent history, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0191par0593	Mr. President, how does he speak?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0189par0594	The blindness of 11 young people, the loss of four people, can't be seen as a common event.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0192par0595	The Republican People's Party has done nothing for the good of the nation.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0189par0596	I wish he'd done that, and I wish I hadn't told the Prime Minister that, yes, I feel and perceive the Prime Minister as a dictator.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0192par0597	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0189par0598	If the Prime Minister had shown the virtue of calling the families of the children who lost their lives, I wouldn't have used that expression for him today. On the other hand, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 157 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is necessary for you to interrupt the peace and order of work, to deal with the individual, to maintain certain savings.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0193par0600	You're dealing with personality, you're dealing with the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0189par0601	Now, there hasn't been much of such practice in these matters. I also don't know the name of every preacher who's been coming up here since today, but I also think it's odd that you're not saving for our young friend. On the other hand, I won't be able to give much, but the AKP's time has only increased 8 times more than the previous 80 years, and in Turkey, the total increase in companies' loan debt during the AKP period has reached $613 billion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let Ahmet Aydın come, Mr. MPs, the numbers that Engin Altay has just given you are wrong, he is lying. Let him say, let him prove it, but please, let these children give up the habit of being spoiled by power.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0606	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0195par0607	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0608	Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0196par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0197par0610	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0611	One second, sir, one at a time. Mr. Tallerk wanted a word, let's hear it.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0612	Mr. AKP Group Deputy President has made false and distorted statements regarding my speeches, one. Two, more importantly: A member of parliament does not have the right to speak on politics, in people, in executives, or in other areas. The word ▪ is once very ignorant. I mean, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0614	Please, Mr. Tallermak... Mr. Honey has asked for your word, we have given it to you, sir... about the bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0615	I'm not gonna make fun of you. But we have to get past one thing, Mr. President, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0616	Then we'll just be spending time with teases.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0617	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0618	Please, Mr. Tallie...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0619	I'd like to get the council's attention, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0620	You did, sir. It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0621	No, just because it's in the transcripts...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0622	Because of the bullying, I promised Mr. Bal. I give my word to the vice president of the group or to a member of parliament because of every bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0623	Mr. President, I was the speaker, there was a statement about me.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0624	No, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0198par0625	I was the speaker, there was a statement about me.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0194par0626	Mr. Tallermak, please... your words have been filed. Mr. Ozkes, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0199par0628	Mr. President, Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0200par0630	AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0201par0631	AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0199par0632	AKP...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0202par0634	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0199par0635	Are you going to teach me what to say?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0203par0637	Speak the truth, Hodja!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0204par0638	AK PARTY, AK PARTY...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0205par0639	Mr. New, I can't, please... Mr. Ozkes, I'm listening.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0206par0641	After the trip, there was no more AK PARTY.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0642	Mr. President, we are believers in the AKP Group Deputy President's speech.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0208par0643	Alhamdulillah.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0209par0644	What have we got here, Mr. President? What should we do?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0645	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0210par0646	I'm listening, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0647	For God's sake, aren't we people who believe?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0210par0648	Please, Mr. Ozkes... please sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0211par0649	What's that got to do with anything? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0650	You're welcome. Look, people here are leaving the House on faith.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0210par0652	So, what do you want to do? Please, Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0653	You can't let that happen!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0210par0655	The Deputy Director of the Group responded.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0656	You can't let that happen! Are we not human beings who believe?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0212par0657	Don't shout!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0658	What the hell does that mean? What kind of a thing is that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0213par0660	Deputy Director of the Group has responded, sir, please sit down. Yes, Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0207par0662	What the hell does that mean?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0214par0663	Don't shout!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0215par0664	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0216par0665	Mr. Ozkes, are you paying attention to your speech?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0217par0666	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0218par0667	Don't shout!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0216par0668	Please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0217par0669	Please. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0216par0670	Please sit down. Your words are in the transcripts, sir. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0217par0672	You can't separate this place from the person who believes, the person who doesn't believe.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0219par0674	That's not a distinction.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0217par0675	You can't!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0676	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, by calling Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0221par0678	Sir, the matter is clear enough. Please, Mr. Aydın... please sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0217par0679	He's the one talking!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0680	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0217par0681	If you believe, you will not eat unlawful things. You are not worthy of the right!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0683	Yes, the Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0684	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0685	Please sit down, Mr. Aydın. I'm not, sir. How long will this continue, sir?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0223par0686	If you did, you wouldn't call the Prime Minister... forever.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0687	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0688	Mr. Aydın, please sit down, I'm not making any promises.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0689	...the vice president of the group called our Prime Minister the didictator.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0690	No, I'm not, sir. I don't see any bullying there. We need to end it. Please sit down. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0692	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0693	Mr. Aydın, I'm not giving it to you, sir, I don't see any bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0220par0694	Sir, he told our Prime Minister that he was a didictator.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0695	So I listened to the speech. Please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0224par0696	Is that an insult? It's a political savings!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0222par0697	We need to end it. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0225par0702	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion. I salute your committee. Of course, we're truly offended by the use of the parliamentary platform as a polarizing platform that sends messages to the political base. This legislature, we think this public should have a platform where the problems of 76 million are on the agenda, where solutions are discussed, but we see here that the concern of sending a message to its own party base is more prominent. We don't find this attitude very right. I will, of course, express my opinion on the motion given, but those who have opposed the solution process for the past two days, have some photographs of Cizre, where they are constantly developing a series of rhetorics for the solution process. I guess we'll have to make a statement about that. Now, we've made a statement through our Co-Chair from the day these photos were first announced. We have stated that these photos are incompatible with the spirit of the solution process, that they are a local event, that they have nothing to do with BDP youth, that the Kurdish political movement has nothing to do with any organizational structure, that we are investigating this incident, and that we will explain it to the public as a result of research and investigation. Now, in a neighborhood in Cizre, 40 or 50 young people who were not in an organised institution met. The only thing they've done is they're wearing one type of T-shirts, no weapons, no equipment in their hands, so there's no parallel army, no parallel police force, nothing to be called, a photograph like this has been delivered to the press, and on that day, a separate army has been formed, a separate police force has been established, and the government has been divided. Look, let us tell you about the real photo in Cizre. The real photograph in Cizre after the solution process began is this: The people of Cizre lay in the mountains for exactly three days so that the soldiers and guerrillas who faced them would not lose their lives. Those who carried this photograph, who had been arguing here for days, lay in the mountains for three days, while the people of Cizre slept in their warm beds, so that only one soldier would not lose his life. The people of Cizre are a people who hold this level of resolution, this level of peace. Again, you've all watched the talks made by the TÜSİAD delegation that went to Cizre two days ago. For the first time, for the first time in 30 years, because of the peace ground that the solution process has provided, the businessmen of this country, the entrepreneurs of this country, want to go to Cizre and come here with economic investments, development projects and employment. They said, "We want to come here." The people of Cizre welcomed these leaving delegations with great enthusiasm, with great enthusiasm, with great hospitality. This is the big picture in Cizre. Another intention must be sought behind sabotaging the solution process through a local photo in a district of Cizre. Look, they've been building a staff on PKK for days. They're calling it. From the top of the KCK Executive Council, Zeki Sengali says of the painting in Cizre: We act according to the spirit of the process. We don't have any checkpoints in Cizre. Some youths may have done some things, but they have nothing to do with the PKK. Earlier -- you know -- in May 1st demonstrations, at different events, young people wore military uniforms with their own initiatives and walked in military order. Have you ever witnessed so much apocalypse? Why is there so much apocalypse in Cizre now? Because it's different, it's different, it's different, it's different, it's different, it's different, it's different. For six months, the blood of young people has not been shed in this country, and not a single young man's body has been buried in the ground for six months. Is there anything more valuable than that? The most valuable work in the thirty-year history of this House is to prevent improvements that will cost the lives of young people during these six months. It's our wish to make these six months sixty months, make them six years, make them sixty years. Everyone in this country needs to be disturbed by the bloodshed, the tears of mothers in this country.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0226par0711	Let's do it forever.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0225par0712	Dear MPs, of course, I'd like to mention a few things about this Travel Park, so there's been gas, water, pressure water, drugged water, death, blood, tears, something that's been overlooked in all this fuss. In the Travel Park, the initial demands of this resistance are currently not discussed in this Parliament. This is a wrong attitude. Look, these are the initial demands for travel park: First, ecological sensitivity. No matter what project you do, whatever decisions you make about the city, one, exploitation of labor, two, ecological plundering is a restrictive criteria for all of us. This is the most important of the first demands of the Travel Park. Second, it's the public's desire to participate in their decision-making process. It's what we call a progressive democracy, a public-based democracy, a demand in Gezil. The third is the expansion of freedoms. The fourth is a demand that the administration take its place now. Here, almost all the speakers who have spoken about the Travel Park for a month do not address these requirements from here. The Peace and Democracy Party formulated all of these demands in a draft constitution submitted to the Constitutional Compromise Commission. These are the demands of all Turkey, all Turkey's peoples, which have been trying to bring from our side to the agenda of this Assembly for a long time. What this Assembly should do is not fight on this bench, but what can we do constructively at the point of implementing these demands, how can we reduce the street's tension, how can we prevent this polarization, this segregation approach in Turkey? We have repeatedly criticised the police's disproportionate intervention here during the Travel Park Resistance. AK PARTY officials should be able to come up here and bring an arrangement about this to this Parliament. Having been shot and killed 10 feet away from Ethem Sarısuluk is not something that any lawmakers would argue, especially when the officer who shot him was released, not when the first responders were sent to prison. Here, for political messages, no one should turn the truth upside down. Look, this Travel Park resistance has also revealed that there is an urgent need for democratisation in Turkey. Turkey needs a package of democratic reforms that will pave the way for this rapid democratisation. When you bring this package here, you show the world that you listen to the voice of the people on the streets of Turkey. Two, there can be no more important step forward than this to contribute to the process of walking solutions. Three, you'll have the chance to clear the photo of the police state that you've placed during this particular Gezi Park resistance -- if I'm available -- of you trying to legitimize state violence. So, instead of having infertile discussions here, bringing in a democratic reform package, the AK PARTY Group must have an agenda. If you leave this House in a few days, you won't be listening to the voice of this people. This coven doesn't have time for a vacation. We're going through a historic process, a historic intersection. There are fires nearby, the Middle East is burning, there's a boiling pot inside of us. In this environment, if Parliament takes a vacation as if nothing had happened, the MPs will work hard, we'll take a vacation. If they say so, then we'll miss a historic opportunity. You should consider this vacation, not as a summer vacation, but as a sacrifice for democratisation. So, yesterday, the Smart People's Commission went around 76 million and presented the reports. We know there's a government study going on, we don't know what its contents are, but there's a study going on. We have suggestions from our party. There are suggestions the Republican People's Party has made regarding democratisation. Come on, let's form a collective study group, we'll form joint commissions, we'll discuss what we're going to do in this country for the democratic future of 76 million, and we'll get a solution out of this House. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0227par0720	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0228par0721	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0227par0722	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0228par0723	Sir, I'm doing something to get him to file a report. In a previous meeting, there is a Turkey in one of the talks made by an AKP MP who has survived the production of projects by its enemies, so I am returning to them a statement describing Turkey as a project produced by the enemies of Turkey before them. If there is a hostile project, I recommend that they look at the Great Middle East Project and its co-chairs. Secondly, this nation has never allowed this statement to be made to our leader, who had been asked to be made to be alive, to be made to be made to be made to be made to be, to be made to be made to be alive. I am insulted by Sultan Alparslana, the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet (Muhammad) and Ataturk (Ataturk). It is an insult to me to compare their leaders with Sultan Alparslan. May God have mercy on your mind. On the other hand, the painting in Cizre is an illegal painting, revealing the existence of an illegal structure. This is not an innocent enterprise, where the KCK reveals that parallel state structure is deepening. We also need to know that a sergeant was injured in a police operation against that so-called law enforcement unit as a result of an explosive explosion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit02spe0229par0726	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0229par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 126th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 475. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit to your votes the motion of Antalya MP Gürkut Acar and his friends on Article 1 of his bill: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0229par0006	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0007	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke to our President of the Group has made unspeakable insults to our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0231par0008	He's taking a break. Call him. He doesn't have a say, he's taking a break.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0009	Although you've had a break, but we need to give him an answer, if you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0232par0010	Mr. Special, you know he's supposed to be in the same session, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0011	It's not our style, but the friend didn't leave the bench, so...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0232par0012	No, we can't break our ways. Sir, say what you have to say in there, and let it be in the transcripts, because I can't promise.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0013	Mr. President, I'll tell you from here.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0232par0014	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0015	Mr. Speaker, a text he has written... has taken the stand and made this country's Prime Minister's insulting word a profession. You love the Prime Minister of this country, you don't like him, but everyone has to respect him.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0233par0016	What did he say? Wait a minute.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0230par0017	This is the Prime Minister of 76 million people. There may be people who don't like him as much as they love him, we all have respect, but no congressman has the right to kiss insulting young people on the forehead.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0234par0018	I said he had no right, I warned him, sir. Thank you, it's in the transcripts. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of Article 85 of Military Supreme Administration Court Law No. 1602, which has been replaced by Article 1 in the framework of Article 1 of the Law on Changes in Some Laws in connection with the 475 Numbered Judicial Services, which is currently in session, be changed in the following manner. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends "The Military Supreme Administration Court in Peace interrupts work from July 20th to August 31st, starting every year from September 1st. Members of the Military Supreme Administration Court, which does not take advantage of a judicial break, may take as long as the duration of a legal recess, other times of the year, including the duration of the road," he told SETimes. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0235par0026	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0234par0027	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0236par0028	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0237par0029	Motive...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0234par0030	I'm reading the reason: The reason is that the Court of Military High Administration, as in other high courts, aims to take as much time off to work if the President, the Attorney General, the Office Chiefs and their members remain on duty during the recession period. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 475 rows is 2. Instead of removing the article from the text of the substance, we respectfully submit and propose that the September 5th declaration be added to the text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Kadir Gökmen Öğün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0238par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0234par0043	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0239par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0234par0045	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0240par0047	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. As we discuss Bill 475, we'd like to discuss some of our views on this bill, and I've made a commitment on Article 2 but we'd like to express our views in general. In this bill, we discuss these things because of the need for a new legal arrangement due to the cancellation of regulations brought under the Law Code 650. When the provisions were issued in the legislation, they were issued under the jurisdiction given by the Council of Ministers, and they were abducted from the control of parliament, we insisted: "Please, while the Parliament is working, do not issue a decree under the authority of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the law given there; even if you do, by law, bring it in, please, and we will discuss it here." You didn't bring it. The Constitutional Court -- we've applied for a cancellation on a lot of issues, but -- called off a few. This is one of the canceled arrangements. What was to be done here? The Constitutional Court has ruled that regulations regarding the judicial holiday cannot be carried out under the law, and today, we're discussing it. Now, forensic holiday, we all know that the lawmakers or the non-laws have been held from July 20th to September 5th since 1927, and maybe because they were involved in this period of agriculture, there was a holiday like this, but from that time on, all our citizens knew about it, and all the lawyers, lawyers, prosecutors, judges, and judges knew about it. The legal community also benefited from the fact that a judicial holiday was actually more attractive to prosecutors and judges because there were 45 days of vacation on a judicial holiday. So during the summer, everyone took their leave. And for that, forensic vacation was of serious importance. When it was reduced to 35 days, you know, when it was downloaded from July 31st to September 5th, a lot of people didn't want to take advantage of it. So maybe it's been moved to these 40 days, but we say, as it used to be, it should be between July 20th and September 5th. It is the concept of a vacation in the minds of people; it is the holiday in the minds of many of our friends or judges. That is also how many examples were given for the durations to function. In terms of the lack of mental confusion of our citizens and the appeal of a judicial holiday and the demands of the members of the judiciary, we say it should actually be between July 20th and September 5th, our proposal is in that direction. However, a mistake is also made here: You predict a 40-day arrangement between July 20th and August 31st, which begins on September 1st. There is also an inequality: High judges -- which was in line with the motion given just now -- are being brought to the Supreme Court of Justice, Court of Justice and Military Government, members, heads of the agency, order that if he is on duty on a judicial holiday, he may be allowed to take 40 days off, as well. However, a lot of our fellow judges from the country called us, our friend the prosecutor called us. Isn't that against the principle of equality? This one is brought for the members of the high judiciary, but why is it not brought for us? For one thing, there are two kinds of wrongs. You're in violation of the principle of equality. I mean, why don't the high judges, the Supreme Court and the Court have this right, and the judges working on the bench don't? And as long as you give it to everyone -- which everyone needs to expand -- in a situation like this, then there's no more the appeal of a forensic holiday. That's why we say that there should be a judicial holiday arrangement between July 20th and September 5th, as it was in the old order, as it was from July 27th. Judges and prosecutors who will take vacations outside of a legal holiday -- high judges or members of the bench -- should use them over 30 days. Such an inequal practice would really lead to a serious injustice and inequality for our fellow judges and prosecutors, who live in Asia Minor and have worked hard. We really want you to think about it. It's really not the right approach. Therefore, I urge the AKP Group specifically that our motion will be accepted by you -- I believe you will make an effort to ensure that such an inequal application does not occur in the following articles. And Mr. Secretary, if our bench judges from this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I think it would be better if he could take our prosecutors' views as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0241par0059	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 3. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Kadir Gökmen Öğün Turgut Dibek Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0242par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0241par0071	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0243par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0241par0073	Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0244par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Of course, when we look at this law, 13 laws have been changed about a legal holiday. First of all, there's the question of a term about a forensic holiday. The term problem here means that the concept union used in law should be understood by everyone, correctly. This bill uses three terms: 1) It's a forensic holiday. 2) Criminal recess. 3) Do not stop working. Now, in terms of the law-making technique, it's not acceptable that there really is a difference of terms. For example, in the draft, the article pauses to work at 26//, the article takes a break from working at 30/, the matter is understood in Article 31/, the matter is used either to take a break from work in 21/22, or to take a break from work in Article 16/, Article 1 and 2/. It is called a recession in terms of law enforcement, which should be used in terms of terms of terminology, or it should be used in terms of terminology, or it should be used in terms of terminology. So the use of three different languages, three different terminology, is really causing trouble in the law's language union. Secondly, how many days was the legal holiday in our past law? Forty-six days. This has been changed by the decree of the law, reduced to 36 days. How much is it now with a new bill? Forty-three days. I mean, the lawmaker shouldn't be playing with the law like a puzzle board. In fact, our late teachers used to say that we should make the law as if we were knitting carpets, but as far as we can see here, our orator friends, including the Ministry, what will happen, sir, we will do it again, we will correct it. You need a forensic vacation? Need. And how is the world's forensic holiday organised? Is it organized like ours? What was the main point of the law, the philosophy of exiting? The staff that worked at the courthouse at that time were both for judges and prosecutors and our people to come to the hearings. It was really agriculture at the time, it was a period of decoupling, it was a period of harvesting, but as we're looking at today, does our citizen have a harvest? It's not harvested. We're looking at it today, and in that sense, does our farmer have a problem with transportation? No. Well, of course, this is my individual opinion, and I don't want to say from the point of view of the party, that's the fact that I think we should take off the legal holiday, which is, in fact, objectively, the cases are getting longer and longer. It's a forensic holiday-- actually, we want the citizen to get justice, and we don't want the files piled up, so maybe it's an individually radical exit, but it's my personal opinion. As a matter of fact, the hearings are already being thrown out after May and June, after a forensic holiday, a year later, so objectively, as someone coming from that area, there's sometimes time being wasted in this way. That's another side of the job. Now, to this forty-three-day problem, Mr. Secretary, where there are only one judge, and the judges, if they haven't taken a day off, you've now turned 30 days into forty, and there's still a three-day inequality. We are coming to the deadline: The Law of Laws shall last seven days on a judicial holiday, and the Law of Punishment shall not continue. It is called three days. So in terms of loss of rights, if we say three days in the penal code, let's say three days in the Law enforcement Act, if we say seven days in the Law Law of Law, let's say seven days in the Law of Law, and let's say seven days in the Law of Criminal Accounts. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0245par0088	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Matter accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands to be changed a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, it is possible to discuss the proposals which the Commission has already attended, and to submit a number of motions. Therefore, I will read the motion and ask the commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following framework clause be added after Article 3 of the Law Bill for Changes in Some Laws in connection with the 475 Numbered Judicial Services that are being discussed, and that other substances be evaluated accordingly. Ahmet Aydın Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu İlhan İlbilen Cute Unal Ashraf Stone Ihsan Sener The following sentence is added at the end of the second joke of Article 8 of the Law 4-2575. In order to be elected a member of the court, you must have worked for 20 years in the profession of judge and prosecutor. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0246par0106	We have only a majority, Mr. President. We agree with the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0245par0107	Yes, Faruk Bal has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group because there is only a majority. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0247par0110	Mr. President, we're discussing a bill of law that has not worked well, and with last-minute interference, some motions are required to demand a new clause. This provision has also been subjected to a very surprising reason and a very surprising period of time. Now, I'm reading exactly what's wanted: to be elected a member of the Council, you have to have worked in the profession of judge and prosecutor for 20 years. Of course, when we say that you must have studied, did you actually work for 20 years, or did you work for a business day, or what happened on vacation, or what happened on vacation, or what was done, or what was done to discuss it. Therefore, the requirement for working in terms of terms is wrong. Two: Why 20 years? Before that, we have a code of law to be elected a member of the Court. This sentence is carried out in balance and parallel with the election to the Supreme Court membership. Now, in order to be elected to Supreme Court and Prosecutor's Office, you have to have a first-class judge, plus, three years of seniority. It takes ten years under normal conditions to get into first class, and when we call it three years, that's how long it takes to get elected from the ruling class to be a member of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court after thirteen years. This does not include an internship. Why is it that when we look at the age group of those elected to the Supreme Court for thirteen years or the average Supreme Court member, after 15 years as a judge, they can be elected after the prosecution? Why are we taking this up to 20 years? What happens when we put it up to 20 years? One: there is a difference between the terms of the Supreme Court member's election and the conditions of electing a State Council member. Why are we making this difference? They're both members of the Supreme Court. The second difference is: The prosecution, of course, is not just a high court where people elected from the profession of judge and prosecutors serve. They are elected members of both authorities and bureaucrats. For members to be elected, only 15 years of service is required to be elected from bureaucracy. In this 15 years of service, the civil service internship is included. Therefore, the difference between the members of the Supreme Court and the members of the judge's class, this time also arises in the selection of the Court members. Some of them are bureaucrats elected from administrative offices, and there's a vague expression that if they serve for fifteen years, they can be elected, but judges have worked twenty years to be elected. Therefore, this is a wrong situation. This is a situation that corrupts the balances of the judiciary, raises contradictions, disrupts order. This is a conflict between terms and matter. That's got to mean something. We, the National Movement Party, do not know this intention. Mr. Secretary needs to explain what this intention is. Of course, we'd support the intention, but what's the reason why 15 years of court-martialing and prosecutors need 20 years to get elected? It's the Minister's explanation and the necessity that we must do the same. The twenty - year judge will serve five more years if he retires normally. So what's the point of choosing a judge in the State after you've exhausted your energy, such as being a member of the State in the last five years of your life? To be clear, we're asking: is this a political operation? You have an obstacle to politicizing the judiciary, and you want to remove it? Is this a code of conduct delivered to an address? Why didn't this come up when the bill was being drafted, why didn't it come up on commissions, and now it's coming up last minute? Well, with these feelings and thoughts, I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0248par0119	Thank you. On the matter, Ramadan Can is a member of the AK PARTY Group, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0249par0122	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. There are current conditions for electing a Supreme Court member among the judicial judges and prosecutors, with the provision of at least 20 years in the judicial and prosecutor's profession, including the duration of administrative duties. One of the reasons for this is that there are Adjective Courts of First Grades and District Courts No. 5235, a parallel to this law is about transitioning to law enforcement courts. Secondly, the residency is being provided. The chief of the court here has not lost the right to be elected first-class, head of the office and member of the Supreme Court, and the members of the agency are from the first-class judicial judges and prosecutors; on Article 44, the district court of justice has been divided into the first-class and has not lost the right to be elected to the Supreme Court and the prosecutor's office for at least eight years. With this arrangement, a parallel will be provided, and this way it will be selected as a member. On the other hand, in the Supreme Court's Law, given the conditions for working three years after the first class required to be elected as a member of the Supreme Court, the age of being appointed to the district court courts will be close by age. It is necessary to provide a gradual transition if necessary, by taking advantage of the duty of judges and prosecutors to be appointed to the district court courts and their experience in these courts. It is hoped that its seniority will also benefit to be elected to the Supreme Court. Therefore, I believe the matter must be accepted, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0250par0128	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0251par0131	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are now required by the General Assembly to serve twenty years in the judicial and prosecutor's profession in order to be elected as a member of the District Attorney's Office, under a motion issued by the ruling party on Article 2575 of Law Article 8 (2). What I want to learn here is that as a member of the Justice Commission, I think it was a long time ago. A change after that narrowed it down to three years, and the current application is three years. Now, why was the long period of time reduced to three years before, and why is it now subtracted from three years to twenty years? So, I have no objection to this, Mr. Secretary: I have no objection to the fact that this period has been raised to twenty years with this motion, but why was it reduced from the upper border to three years from a higher border to twenty years, and why is it now raised from three to 20 years? Who was in the middle of this operation, and what good did it do? I mean, I want to know if anyone's been protected from this upper boundary to three years, or if that operation is now complete, if we're getting to a more normal situation, I want to understand this, this is one. This is a concrete indication that even the work of the Justice Commission, which is also the most sacred place in this House, the law-making, the law-making kitchen, is a form of its work. And here, Mr. Commissioner, is unable to uphold the law of his own commission. That's why I'm criticizing our Commissioner. I mean, don't let the bill and proposals be discussed in the Justice Commission anymore, just as they've been discussed. If so, there is a decree in our Constitution; there is no need to discuss it in the commission. Take this bill and bring it directly from the government when it comes to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and speak directly to the General Assembly. I think at least you wouldn't have done it as if you were, at least not in the form of law. Dear lawmakers, the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party always talk about legend when they come to the bench. Mr. AKP, our friend, the deputy leader of the group, has just arrived, mentioned a legend, repeated the old legends again. He said: You know, Turkey has been ruled by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan as one man for over 11 years. A perception directed and directed by Mr. Erdogan is a common expression that Turkey has developed a miraculous economic development in ten years. Now, if this is an expression of a fact, or a myth, I want to say it myself; I want to say it again with the figures of government, state institutions. The first myth is that the income per person has increased by threefold. It is wrong. In fact, national income per person has increased by 45 per cent during this period. His three-fold account is a translation error at the price of the current dollar. Every country's national income and growth is measured by national money, calculated by it. It doesn't change the rate of growth if the national currency is valued or devalued in the face of dollars. For example, on June 9, 2008, 100 new Japanese people raised 0.94 dollars, while 100 new Japanese rose to a new $1.32 on October 24, 2011. According to the dollar, Japanese money was worth 40 per cent, and Japan's national income per person who didn't actually increase very much was up 40 per cent when the current dollar was calculated by dry, but no Prime Minister of Japan had ever boasted about it. Japan is 40 per cent, Turkey is 45 per cent in ten years, ten and a half years, my dear friends. The second myth said on this bench: ▪ Our total national income has increased rapidly over the past ten years, and this is my wrongly valued friends. How do we know it's wrong? It's from the data of state institutions run by the AKP today. The average growth rate of the last ten years, ten and a half years, is 5 percent. It is roughly equal to the average growth rate of the previous 80 years in the Republic of Turkey. Nothing's changed, otherwise there's a devaluation and a current opening. Now the goal of growth has been held at 5 per cent for three years, so that it does not cause an open devaluation crisis. This legend is broken, too, actually. The third myth is 17, which is the size of Turkey's economy. So it's going to look like the economy of Turkey in the AKP is the 17th economy growing in the world. My dear friends, they were. I mean, you can't even read or write? For God's sake, read some of your own institutions' data. In 1993, Turkey, the world's 17th largest economy, according to total national income, was 1993. Sometimes it's a step up, sometimes it's a step down. Nineteen years later, in 2012, Turkey became the world's 17th largest economy. It's unlikely it'll change in the next ten years. Well, that legend's gone, too. Another legend, they say: "We've reset the IMF debt, we've become a debt free country." They've also used the Ankara Chamber of Commerce in this regard, they've equipped billboards. My dear friends, we've reset these IMF debts, we've become a debt-free country. You know what, dear MPs? It's the art of lying when you're missing. This is: The fact that the AKP has actually failed in the economy is that the external debt burden has increased greatly. In fact, that's why this legend came out. So the fact that AKP has increased the burden of external debt in the economy has brought up the need to spread such a myth in Turkey. Now, in numbers, our foreign debt totalled 130 billion dollars in 2002 -- the figures of the state -- in 2012, our foreign debt amount was $337 billion. Now, dear lawmakers, is $337 billion larger or $130 billion larger? The AKP's executives may have borrowed $337 billion from the outside, speaking as if they had reduced it to $130 billion today. They didn't actually download it. They say we're a non-borrowed country. Now, in fact, this external debt burden is still unstoppable. In fact, our country has never been burdened with this much debt in the history of the Republic. Yes, the loans to the IMF have been paid. How are my dear friends paid? A man who doesn't know economics, reads a little bit of books, works his brains out. When the IMF debt comes, it's closed with foreign banks, foreign banks, foreign currency, that's all it is. Last words, my dear friends, are legends and spells. There's no need to fool the public, you can't fool the numbers by bending them. These figures are not the figures of the Republican People's Party or of the institutions in the state ruled by the DP. These are state-owned institutions run by the Justice and Development Party now, the Prime Minister's independent institutions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0252par0145	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0253par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0252par0147	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0253par0148	The vice president of the group is also a myth by lying. He said, sir. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0252par0149	Yes, Mr. Aydın, I promise you two minutes. Please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0254par0150	I didn't say that, Mr. President, if you look at the reports. I told you about the legend.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0253par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, for once, we all need to enjoy the economic progress in Turkey, and we all need to be happy about it. We need to enjoy Turkey's growth, its development, its economic development, its democratisation. I think it would be nice if you could take some time to be a little more happy than that, as a member of this country, a son of this country, as a member of this country, as a congressman, to be happy about it. The figures are calculated the same way they were measured in previous times. We didn't invent this, we're not reinventing America, we're doing the numbers on it. Yes, all the countries in the world, especially when the strong economies are going down, when the banks are on the brink of a crisis, while Turkey is one of the two major economies in the world. If you don't believe us, look at the foreign media, look at international organisations' data on Turkey's economy. Yeah, I think if we're up from $230 billion to $800 billion in gross revenues of $3,444 each, if we've got about $11,000, we should be happy about it. You mentioned debts. What matters is the national rate of public net debt stock. What was that rate in 2002, and what is it today? The rate of public net debt is 61.5% in 2002; today it is 22 per cent. Again, Turkey may have been the 17th largest economy you mentioned in 1993, but in 2002, Turkey was the 26th largest economy. We've moved on to the 17th largest economy. Hopefully, with this zeal, our goal of 2023 is to make Turkey one of ten major economies, which is what we're trying to do. Likewise, yes, IMF debt, dear friends, $23.5 billion in 2002, one way or another. Wasn't that $23.5 billion when we took over? That's the exact number, and we paid that debt. We've paid off the worker and the officer, and we're investing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and in this area, we continue to develop and expand Turkey. Please, I want you to be happy with Turkey's growth, thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0255par0165	Thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0256par0172	Mr. President is not accepted, sir. The vote was not accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0257par0173	You said "proposal," sir, there's no motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0256par0174	It wasn't.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0258par0175	Wait a second.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0257par0176	There's no motion, you voted on the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0258par0177	The process is repeated... because there's been a mix-up. I submit the motion to your votes... of course, as a new clause, the motion. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0259par0180	For the second time!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0258par0181	In this way, the new 4th article has been added to the bill, but talks will be carried out through the existing clauses of the bill in order not to cause any confusion. In the writing of the law, the number of other substances will be identified due to the addition of new substances. There is a motion on the current Article 4 of the bill: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 4. We respectfully submit and propose that it has been selected by the HSYK or the President to be included in the article after the declaration of ejaculated memberships. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Kadir Gökmen Öğün Turgut Dibek Bedii Süheyl Batum Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0260par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0258par0191	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0261par0192	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0258par0193	Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0262par0195	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Fourth Amendment to the Law on Judiciary Services. Dear lawmakers, starting in 2002, we've made very different laws about the judiciary, and you've changed very different laws. And now you're organizing memberships that have been discharged in this clause. But let me tell you, despite so many changes, so many judicial packages, so many changes in judicial services, the problems of the judiciary continue to grow in Turkey. Lawlessness continues, and the rule of law, much less the state, becomes debatable. Now, while discussing the issues of this judiciary, financial resources, staff, technical vehicle problems, of course, important problems and changes were needed, and the number of files needed to be reduced, but the main problem, dear friends, is the issue of judicial independence, which is the most important problem. Unfortunately, the AKP's very valued MPs, especially those you ignore, the ministers may not know, but you, the very dear fellow lawmakers in you, you don't fix it, you don't want to correct it. That's why you're bringing a change: we're going to report it to the Ministry of Justice as the executive judge, tax judge of divorce memberships. Now, why? Why are you making such a change? Because you've been so concerned about staffing, about having the judges on our side, that you've ignored the expertise, the knowledge, the integrity, the science and independence so much that you feel obliged to bring such a change today. Mr. Gürkut Acar, you were very angry, but the Prime Minister did say these things, not that he didn't say them, but he said things that Mr. Gürkut Acar said when he said them here. You say, "You insult the prime minister." Did he not say: "We have spoken to the judge, and he will do what he has to do? Isn't that what he said? A certain organization is applying, a certain court has decided. Didn't he call from here to the State? I don't know that decision, I don't know the verdict, I'm going to do the ECM there, I'm going to do the mosque, I don't know that decision. It's the same.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0263par0200	He didn't, he didn't!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0262par0201	I'm not making it up, you're saying it out there, it's your job to make it up. Cut.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0263par0202	You're making it up.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0264par0203	Mr. Kaçir, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0262par0204	He told me about the referendum. Why are you talking about the referendum? When we said, "We're going to wait for your pleasure, so the police attacked. Didn't they say? Dear friends, we say this all the time. The logic of this independence of the judiciary was hidden in the words of Bkent Arinc, a very valuable minister of yours: my beautiful friend, a shining boy of Asia Minor. Thank God he was picked in the first round. And they voted for the judge, block by block. God gives, and He gives, and He gives, as I sacrifice.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0265par0206	He didn't lie. Why do you care? No, he didn't say anything.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0262par0207	Dear friends, you've done all this. Don't worry, it's not God I'm sacrificing, it's God who is not only your God, but God who is our God as well. No one will accept your choosing of the AKP members. Dear friends, you've made these changes. There's still independence. The problem here, my dear friends, is not in the palaces of justice, but in the grassing of buildings, not in the flowering of buildings, but in the way that God gives to you as a victim, the problem is with you, your Minister, the problem is with your view of judicial independence.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0265par0210	No, it's you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0262par0211	And don't tell me this. Look how well you say it. We're laughing. Don't say that. One day we won't laugh at them together, but on that day you will say, "We laughed at them. We weren't interested in them." I hope not, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0266par0213	Teacher, we thought we'd pick one person, you said all of them. You're the one who's objecting to the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0267par0214	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 5. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal İhsan Özkes Turgut Dibek Hasan Akgöl Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0268par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0267par0226	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0269par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0267par0228	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0270par0230	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're discussing a bill for judicial services. What's in this? There's a law under the law that's being enforced by a decree. The Constitutional Court cancelled it because it wasn't under the jurisdiction. It has been cancelled, but there is no violation of the Constitution. It is tried, but it does not reflect the truth, in which there are amendments to the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has decided to dismiss it before it gets to the content. When you look at the reasons for opposition, there are many laws against the Constitution in the rule of law. Law can't be made by taking a warrant and filling everything in. Look, Turkey's most important problems today are the judicial system, the justice system. Is there a solution to this bill? No. People have been under arrest for five years, six years, our MPs Mustafa Balbay, and eight MPs, along with Mehmet Haberal. Is there a solution to this? No. People are struggling with diseases in prisons, they can't go to the hospital, is there a solution to this bill? No. The warranty of justice has been overturned, prosecutors who investigate are being tried before the defendants. What does that mean? Now it's up to those who really seek justice in Turkey, really judge and prosecution, to judge heroes, heroic prosecutors, exiles, investigations. Is there justice here? There's no law, no justice, my dear friends, with a sense of recruitment. You're looking at today, there's no choice for the Chief Prosecutor. Why? Because there's a conflict of community-government there. It's called a conflict of government. If the president of a country's top executive judicial body is having community debates, it's a shame about that country, it's a shame about its judgment. Dear friends, see, the most important issue in the earlier trials of Silivri is false digital data, fake computer documents. Despite the fact that many documents have been lied to, the trial continues on the basis of those documents. Is there a solution to this bill? Not that either, I'm afraid not. Look, there's an international agreement on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Turkey signed it, so it's her will. This bill is an agreement that will stand in the way of fake digitals: the Approval of the Convention on Crimes in the Virtual Environment is Compromised. This bill has been in Turkey's Grand National Assembly for two years. It's found important, it's found valuable, it's signed, but this bill just doesn't come up. Why? Now, look, in Silivri, people will face convictions based on false digital evidence, but an arrangement that can prevent this is being held on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has passed through the commission and is kept on hold. Why is that? Is the Silivri trial expected to end? What kind of justice is that? How can there be such a lack of conscience? It's called obstruction of justice, it's called obstruction of justice. The government commits these crimes all the time. This bill must be brought up and discussed immediately. Remember, where there is no justice, nothing survives, stays, stays. My dear friends, my fellow speakers from the AKP have responded very strongly to my speech just now. I just want to say, look, what we're saying out there is all true, but when we say the same thing, you react greatly. That's not true. We, the opposition, have to speak the truth, say our criticism. We're here to shine a light on the facts...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0271par0237	Say your reviews, don't insult them.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0270par0238	But I see now that it's become a habit to reject the truth, to ignore it, to stop talking all the time. Dear friends, this bench has its innocence, and no one can be blamed for the words spoken on this stand. We are here, doing what this country, this nation has given us, so I call on my friends to be more respectful. Please bear with criticism and please consider: "Where are we at fault? " My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0272par0242	He doesn't give you the right to insult you, but he doesn't give you the right to insult you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit03spe0273par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0273par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 475. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 6. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Vahap Selects Ugur Flagtutan Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0274par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0273par0015	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0275par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0273par0017	Yes, it's Ugur Bayraktutan, the Artvin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0276par0019	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the motion on Article 6 of the Law Bill on Changes in Some Laws relating to Judicial Services 475. I salute your high council. At the beginning of this Law Bill 475 rows, it says: "This is what the Court of Justice says about its services. " Süheyl Hajji has just spoken, there have been many drafts, laws proposals for judicial services and judiciary here, many packages have been delivered, but unfortunately we can't correct the problems of this judiciary, Mr. Secretary. Look, we have citizens in our country who, unfortunately, won't benefit from this law in some parts of the country, even though the head of Bill 475 called it judicial services. I've said it many times, but I want to say it one more time. In particular, there are some places in my constituency where the courts have been closed, one of which is our district of Ardanuç. I've told you many times, in Arhavi County, the courthouse has been saved and then taken back. With the decree issued by HSYK, 44 of 146 courts were abandoned, 102 courts were unfortunately closed, including one of our districts of Ardanuk. Now, my dear friends, Mr. Secretary, the closing of the courthouse in Ardanuk is the following: Now, you have a study on opening an open prison in Ardanuk. Imagine a county, you close the courthouse in that county, you open a prison. When you look at the mile between Ardanuç (Artvin) and Artvin, there is more than 30 miles [45 km] away. On average, Ardanuch has 49 villages. The average distance to every village's Ardanuk district is 20 to 25 kilometers, my dear friends. The furthest village is 45km from Ardanuç district centre, which means that when a citizen from any village of Ardanuk has a conflict in the court of law or in the criminal court, if there may be a case of bringing a witness to court, my dear friends must follow an 80km path to Artvin. And because of that, the great victims are still, unfortunately, ongoing. If you're giving up judicial services in a district, in a settlement -- I've told you before -- stop giving up administrative services. We always say that, my dear friends, that it may save money on anything, but it's impossible to understand how to save money in judicial services in the courthouse, not to tell the public. We took down the courthouse sign, what do we tell the citizens now? Look, for the slightest complaint, even though notarys are now notarized, people think of people whose financial situation is bad enough to go somewhere else -- my dear friends -- four people will go down to the county center, you'll take those four people, you'll take them to Artvin, there's no way the hearings will be over at the same time, and then you'll bring them home to the evening. I mean, give up this decision you've made. In other places, perhaps it's impossible to tell, but in one of the most beautiful, cutest boroughs of Artvin, such as Ardanuk, we can't possibly talk about closing people's courthouses, my dear friends. I mean, despite the fact that all political parties have reacted, including your borough presidency, unfortunately you haven't come back from this decision. You were just sitting next to Mr. Undersecretary of Artvin's origin, and our President of the Justice Commission is of Artvin's origin. We've told you this many times, Mr. Secretary, but we haven't been able to tell you. Look, you've given up on Arhavi County, you've opened Arhavi County, and you're saying that because of this, my dear friends, you're saying that there's a lack of work density in service. What this stands for, my dear friends, is that if there's a crime in a county, if there's an increase in the number of crimes, you don't close the courthouse. If there is no crime committed in a district, if there is no crime committed by our citizens, sir, there is no work density here, we are closing the courthouse.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0277par0025	The Artvins did what they did!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0276par0026	I said this in a speech I made at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey once again, and I said to all my citizens: I say to all my citizens that someone misunderstood -- if you don't want your court closed, commit a crime.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0277par0027	Don't, don't!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0276par0028	But that's it. That's why you're putting down the workload, the lack of work. I mean, there's no legal way to describe it by any other definition, terminological definition. I mean, if there's no crime committed in a district, in Ardanuk, if there's a miscarriage in legal conflicts, sir, I'm shutting down your courthouse because you're not committing a crime. Isn't that an act, Mr. Secretary? Now, the Ardanuchans are watching us on TV. I'm calling them from here, and when the election comes tomorrow, please punish those who shut down your courthouse. To close the courthouse is to punish you, so you can punish those who have closed your courthouse. Isn't that my right as a local MP, dear friends? Therefore, the decision is not a Constitutional decree; the HSYK can always give up its decision. With 102 courthouses closed, this country will not sink, nor will it ever, so the decision must be taken back immediately. The truth about judicial services mentioned in this law must be once again revealed about the use of judicial services and the use of judicial services of the Ardanuchites. Once again, I complain of this wrong decision from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to both the Ardanuchites and the Artvinians and the honorable members of the Grand Assembly. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0278par0032	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 475 rows is 7. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Sakine Öz Özgür Special Hasan Akgöl Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0279par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0278par0044	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0280par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0278par0046	It's Sakine Öz, the Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0281par0048	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 7th amendment of the bill we're discussing. I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, under the bill of some technical regulations on the functioning of the judiciary, the Constitutional Court has been rescinded by a new regulation of the articles it has not seen under the law of authority, but the judiciary, which should be neutral, should not act in the shadow of politics, is becoming the government's backyard. Hundreds of thousands of people are taken into custody with unquestioned and disproportionate police force when they want to invoke democratic demands. The prime minister pats his young men on the back of cops who kick their asses in the parking lot corners, basements. Dear MPs, the massacre of Ethem Sarısuluk (Ethhem Sarısuluk) and what happened afterwards have been a disgrace to our country's history. Attempts to legitimize police violence have begun with the Prime Minister, with a biased report from the Anadolu Agency, and were asked to be exonerated by the words of Bkent Arinc. The police who killed Ethem were not first discovered in the police force for weeks, then protected and protected by the Anadolu Agency with their biased news. Days later, the police gave up their defense, and, contrary to the world's record, they came at me, and I was struck by a stone, and he said, "I hit you by mistake." Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, without being bored, said the police were struck by a stone, and the target was lost. After that, you know. This police officer is free, but the young people next to Ethem Sarısüluk are under arrest. It's not over, there's no scandals. The mother of our 13 - year - old child who was taken into custody during the resistance is telling us what she said: I saw a mother and her son, who had been slapped by the police and stuffed in the car. The police tell them that we are soldiers of Mustafa Kemal. Come on, let him save you now. You see what a government that's so cheap makes its own staff say. Dear lawmakers, a government that wants to reform the judiciary is obliged to take necessary measures to ensure that they defend their rights until they are brought to justice. AKP staffs, who powered the polygraph to discredit travel resistance, shut up when we talk about how the young people who were put on the police bus were beaten to death until they reached the police station, what curses they were exposed to, what women were being robbed by male police. Setting up the workings of judicial institutions, setting holidays, does not prevent you from seeing long-term arrests, illegal arrests. The recent arrests of Gezi resistance concentrated in Ankara and Istanbul have brought us to the point of rioting the outsiders. What has been done to young people whose homes have been raided is clear evidence that the bankruptcy of the judicial institution in our country, the arrests, are clearly full of political anger and hatred. The best response to the government, who thinks it will deter the young and the patriots, is that our young people's mothers, fathers, and friends have given them, and the squares are filled with those who seek their rights again. If we briefly look at the progress of the trial that led to 22 arrests in the Gezi Resistance in Ankara, we face an incredible disaster. The defendants were indicted on charges of membership in a terrorist organization, but the prosecution couldn't tell who was part of which organization. Let's arrest someone from every left-wing organization, and then we'll throw a crime against them, and they'll do it by heart. Young people, by adding a new ring of humor to his revolution during the Travel Resistance, say, "Your Honor, will you find us an organization, or will you list the organisations, and shall we choose one of them?" The AKP, which has concentrated in our country over the past four years and has ruled the sentence with long imprisonments before the end of the trial, now has the opportunity to extend the dictatorship, rather than bring a comprehensive judicial reform to our Parliament. I salute you all with the desire to see the days when justice unites with freedom.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0282par0057	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 8. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Vaap Selecter Hasan Akgöl Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0283par0068	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0282par0069	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0284par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0282par0071	Vahap chooses to make a statement on the motion, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0285par0073	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the proposal on the 8th article of the Bill, which is 475 rows. My dear friends, Turkey's most important agenda in the last month has been Travel Park events. Of course, it's only natural that Turkey's heart, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be discussing these issues in this place where national will can be achieved. At times, our fellow lawmakers from the opposition party bring it up. So, of course, from our perspective, we're looking at things, and we're trying to figure out what we're seeing about this, what we're seeing about this, political, sociological reflections, why, in society, the consequences, of this, of course, we're trying to express them here. Of course, there is a political will that governs Turkey. Therefore, whatever happens in 780,000 square miles [780,000 km] in Turkey today, whatever happens in 7 parts of the country, whatever happens in 4 corners, whatever happens in this case, that's a good thing, it's a bad thing, it's a bad thing, it's a government; good is good for him; good is good for him, and bad for him is his responsibility. But my fellow lawmakers are particularly uncomfortable with criticism of the Prime Minister. But one fact is that the main reason for these events is because of the Prime Minister's attitude and behavior. Look, over the course of a month, the balance sheet has been heavy: 79 counties, numbers, 2 million citizens involved in these actions, four of our citizens -- we have a police officer -- 600 security forces have lost their lives, over 4,000 people have been injured, millions of dollars of public goods have been damaged. Of course, these are important issues, issues that need to be discussed as a result of these events. Mr. Prime Minister -- be careful -- right after these events began, especially after the first days, in his messages to society, we all set out with words that really divide society, entice society, enrage society, provoke society, while we all wait for calming, sobering remarks. Remember, at that time, as the main opposition party, we had rallies in various parts of the country. We've cancelled these rallies in that tense environment to avoid getting into some kind of polemics or to avoid some provocation. You won't find a single sentence from the President-General's mouth that provokes these events, provokes these events, reflected in the press, seen on television screens, but look at Mr. Prime Minister's remarks. We can gather a million people. 50 per cent of this country's citizens are at home grinding their teeth, squeezing their teeth. Look, he's brought up the incident of drunk protestors entering the mosque, and I'm really amazed. I'm assuming that's what happened, that these self-instructional people entered the mosque in such a manner, with their liquor bottles in their hands. Instead of concealing it in order not to provoke the public, Mr. Prime Minister cooked it and cooked it and brought it to the front of people at every rally instead of covering it up. I certainly do, I certainly do, I certainly do, and there's been an attack on our sister-in-law with a veiled head; it's the Prime Minister who cooks it and cooks it and brings it to the public. However, in the face of such a situation, it was the Prime Minister who needed to develop the unification, the integration, the soothing rhetoric of these events. Of course, there's no telling what it does. I really don't know if some sociologists, political scientists, are trying to tighten their base, their lines, as they say, but I don't know. In spite of everything, I'm telling you, really, look... [[The microphone was cut off by the automatic device]] ...with your attitude, with your words, to this House, and to this House...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0286par0080	You're the one who pulled it apart!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0287par0081	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0285par0082	...you're the ones who cause arguments and fights here. I hope you'll support our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0287par0084	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 475 rows is 9. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Free Special Hasan Akgöl Bedii Suheyl Batum Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0288par0095	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0287par0096	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0289par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0287par0098	Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0290par0099	Dear President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the 9th article of the bill. Dear friends, I just told you, you've made a lot of changes in the judiciary here, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the High Assembly, has made many changes. You've made judgment packages; the first package, the second package, the third package, the fourth package; it's not happening, it's not happening. Why can't it work? And now, again, you're making this law on the annulment of a decree that you've passed before to improve judicial services -- even though we've said so many times. Now, when we look at the item, it regulates the presidential board. When you arrange this with the 11th article, when you consider it, especially when you consider it with the 4th bell, you see this: it will not happen again, it will not happen. It's obvious, it's obvious, dear friends. You're really ignoring the independence issue, the independence of the judiciary. I'm afraid you've given such a great deal of importance to recruitment, not knowing the law, that you've completely eliminated judicial independence in Turkey. My dear friends just told me about the decision on Ethem Sarým. It's a hard decision to believe. In any democratic country in the world, the ruling party in that country, the justice minister, even the opposition parties say that we did something wrong, something is wrong. Today, in Eskişehir, where I am a deputy, Ali Ismail Korkmaz is still lying unconscious in a coma. If he were in another country -- and his claims still haven't caused anything -- those who are still alleged to have done so have not even been brought to trial -- he would certainly look for the consequences or reasons for improving that judiciary, not in these regulations, but in judicial independence. Dear friends, I'm telling you, we've said it before, you haven't accepted it. This is the old friend of Osman Can. The one you value so much, the one you're currently a member of MYK.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0291par0106	Teacher, it's not MYK.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0290par0107	Anyway, the one you put in there... Orhan Gazi Erkin wrote it in his book. In his book "Admirable democracy," Orhan Gazi Erkin, whom you treasure so much, wrote while his friend was on your top board, he said, "What embarrassing scandals have we set out for independent and neutral judgment." And he told me, and none of you have said, "Tell me, what are these embarrassing scandals he has written in his book?" You did all this to get a staff, to get a staff. But look around here, when you actually do these things, you're ignoring them with laws that are no longer medicine or ointment, let alone unresolved. I'll tell you one last thing about this, dear friends. Ask your very valuable fellow members of the Justice Commission, for the most part, you've done so many things that you've seen as a commercial activity, you've finally shown that the President of the Constitutional Court, you know who you're renting a 250-300 thousand-dollar car to -- he said, "The money is not enough for me with the private foundation law. You remember that, don't you? You know, we haven't seen each other yet. He's been accepted by the Commission. He told me to build a foundation. Why are we setting it up? You see it as a commercial activity, and you're not even independent of it, he said. Dear friends, please... we all look forward to making laws on independence from this Parliament. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0292par0113	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 10. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Free Special Hasan Akgöl Kamer Young Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0293par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0292par0125	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0294par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0292par0127	It's Tunceli MP Kamer Young who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0129	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 10th amendment to the 475th Amendment. I salute you all. Now, of course, there was no law left in AKP rule, there was no constitution. Although the provisions of the Constitution under Article 91 have been determined by the law of authority, I'm afraid the government has issued and has organised the Court of Appeals of Law 650. But it wasn't a matter of law and order, and they knew it. But, of course, when this ruler came here to the Ministry of Justice, he didn't leave anything called the Ministry of Justice, there was no judgment. Abdullah Gul, who lived in Çankaya, was so saving that he brought Erdogan's closest relative, a graduate of the Islamic Institute, a member of the State.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0296par0131	You can't address the president like that.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0132	And all the men who were assigned there were such personal, self-involved people. There is no judge left, and the prosecutor has no reputation. Now he's saying that if there's an imbalance between the office's labor forces, that's what's being arranged by the Council of Presidents' decision. It should be by law, the Council of Presidents shouldn't have that kind of arbitrary saving power. Now, dear lawmakers, since we don't have a lot of rights to talk here... the regime in our country is going through a major collapse. Look, Recep Tayyip Erdogan says at the airport on his return to Tunisia: "The mentality of the People's Party of the Republic is scum." Now, what is the mentality of a party? It's his program with his charter. He says in the Republican People's Party's charter and programme that our state form is the republic and is secular. Erdogan says here that secularism and the republic are scum. He also says it's "dirty."
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0297par0136	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0137	Go and ask him.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0298par0138	He didn't say that. Don't make it up!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0297par0139	Let's have a clean word, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0140	Yeah, whatever. Also, friends, look, in this Travel Park...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0299par0142	Yeah, where did he say that?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0143	...the young men who did that act there are very noble and noble young men. These are the youth of Ataturk, who realized that the conditions that Ataturk had spoken in Bursa Nutku were in Turkey, and they intervened as the young men of Ataturk.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0299par0144	Those who burn the Turkish flag cannot be the young ones of Ataturk.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0145	These people were slandered and lied to by Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0300par0146	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0147	But those young men have never changed the regime of this country. Look, I've seen two teenagers in the course of these events, and the police are leaving, shooting 12 young boys in the eye. I saw two of them. Guys, a cop who's the son of this country can't shoot a kid in the eye with a bullet. These are the men from Al-Qaeda, the Muslim brothers and Hamas, whom Erdogan had created according to him. Let us examine this. With this, a goal is set in Turkey. Recep Erdogan is trying to create a police force to create a fight in Turkey because he has become very rich, his property has increased.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0301par0148	Why don't you tell me about your son's assets? You haven't even answered for him yet.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0149	He knows he can't eat it with a normal regime, so he says: "But I can eat it with a dictatorship." Now, he goes to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and he sees that there is no power against the King of Saudi Arabia and the King of Qatar, of course. He looks up to her, and Turkey tries to use that kind of regime. Guys, is that a thing? Look, in Turkey, there's no such thing as justice. Anything at all, Mr. Sadullah...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0301par0151	You mixed it up again, mixed the soup with the gumbo!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0152	They're going to the courts to make all the changes they want. There is no justice system. Turkey does not have a system of justice that people trust. To have democracy in a country, you have to have independent judgment. There is no concept in Turkey called independent judiciary, and people no longer have the freedom to seek rights. And unfortunately, the people that the cops shot and killed... they're not even arrested by taking their power from the government. Even in a most primitive society, if a man is killed, that man will at least be brought in to stop the suffering of those who were killed. Now, Recep Erdogan is trying to establish a dictatorship, but he can't afford it. One day the CHP will come to power, we will seize it, we will bring it all to the citizens.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0301par0153	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0295par0154	We can ask for such accounts from Recep Tayyip Erdoğan himself that he cannot go to the market. If he is brave, let's go for a ride in the Redbeard. Going around with 6,000 cops doesn't mean anything. For him, Turkey is badly ruled by your regime, trying to create a brotherly quarrel, always trying to scratch the Alevi issue. The Flames don't play his game. It's where he's been practicing so far. But Erdogan says it's the Aleki who go to that street in matters of travel. How do you know? Whose forehead says Flame, Sunni? Is there such a vile way of thinking? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0302par0157	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0303par0158	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0160	He insulted our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0303par0161	I promise you for two minutes, Mr. Canician bullying. Please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. Of course, there's no way we're going down to the level of the speaker just now. So...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0305par0168	I already know your level, Nurettin. Let's measure our level if you want.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0169	But, look, here's your review...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0305par0170	Look, I've been to your province. Look, I'm gonna tell you something.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0306par0171	Mr. Young, please be patient.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0172	It could be severe criticism. You're criticizing him. No one has any objection to him. In democracy, it's essential, but you don't say a good word.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0305par0173	There's no atmosphere for it to come out, the environment! You've prepared an environment so that you've reduced us to the level of normal motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0174	It's just an insult, it's just -- I don't want to use the word -- you insult it, it doesn't work on anything else. You don't have a mouth or a brain; you're nothing but insults, blasphemy, blasphemy. Unfortunately, I mean, I'm really sad to say it, and I mean it sincerely.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0307par0175	But doesn't the Prime Minister have the same style, Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0176	It makes me sad to say that. We don't say anything to your criticism, but you can't insult it. Blasphemy is not a human approach.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0307par0177	The Prime Minister has the same style as you. Why don't you criticize him?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0178	A normal person can't, shouldn't, shouldn't. Again, it's all possible, including severe criticism, but it's not possible for a human being with a normal human angel to make such heavy insults.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0307par0180	Please tell that to the Prime Minister, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0181	He will carry and insult human angels. These two can't be together, they can't be together. There's no one.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0308par0182	Mr. Nurettin Canikli, the court's decision is heavier than an insult, the heavier court's decision; you're ignoring it.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0304par0183	Take it back, apologize. Don't insult me. Look, this insult of yours at least gives us the right to convey that statement to your own president, who knows exactly. But in spite of that, we don't do that. Because why? I've just said that both human angels and insults and blasphemy cannot meet in the same person; there is no one. Either he's not insulting you, or he's not swearing, or there's no humanity. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0187	Thank you. Yeah...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0189	Mr. President, he told me: "He's low in rank, and I can't go down to his level." And he said, "He has."
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0190	Mr. Young, please, we can't keep this up. You insulted the Prime Minister during your speech, and he left...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0191	No, sir. How do you know I'm insulting you?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0192	Please, Mr. Young, sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0193	I'm not sitting down.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0194	I'm not, sir.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0195	You have to promise not to mess around.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0196	Don't move your hand. I'm not, sir. Have a seat. I'm not giving it to you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0197	Why don't you give it to me? You have to.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0198	No, I don't have to.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0199	No, you have to. You don't know the Civil Code yet.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0200	We're trying to run the House here. Against the responses after that.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0201	You don't know the Civil Code yet. Look, you've been sitting there for years! I insist, I want to talk about teasing. Read a Civil Code!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0207	Yes, I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0208	No, when I insisted...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0209	All in favor...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0210	Hey, look at the Civil Code!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0211	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0212	Look at the Civil Charter, the Civil Code!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0213	The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0215	Look, ask the officer in the back, when he's insisted...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0216	Mr. Young, please sit down.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0217	Ask him how he'll act when he's insisted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0218	You have no right to insult anyone here.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0219	Look, you're sitting there with that little head of yours, you don't know the Civil Code. I say, I insist, there's teasing. You need to act in accordance with the Civil Code there.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0220	We've learned, sir, from what you've told us. Thank you!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0221	Well, tell me. I'm telling you, ask my friend. Then you have to vote.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0222	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0223	Read and read the decree of the Civil Charter, and go up there!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0224	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0225	No, I insist, there's a challenge.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0226	There are two motions on the 11th article, I'm having them read...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0310par0227	President... oh, President, I've got a challenge.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0309par0228	Please sit down, Mr. Young, I won't. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The one in sight...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0311par0231	I'm saying there's a challenge. 11th of the law bill, 475 rows. In accordance with the clause of the article... I'm telling you, there's a challenge. Look, there's teasing, you have to vote. ..we'll offer and supply in order to replace it. Open the Civil Charter! There's a challenge. I say, I insist, vote then.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0312par0236	They'll bring the records, sir. Idris Baluken Sebahat Tuncel Ertugrul Kürkçı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 475 rows...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0313par0243	Well, then, I insist. Oh, you've got to vote, I insist.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0312par0244	Sit down, I'll have the reports brought in.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0313par0245	No, sir, you have to vote now. You have to vote now. ...round 11. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0312par0247	I'll have the transcripts brought in, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0313par0248	Gee, I'm telling you, I insist. According to the Civil Code, if he insists, you must vote. ▪ Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek That's not gonna happen! He goes up there without reading the Civil Charter, and then... read the Civil Charter!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0314par0254	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0315par0255	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0314par0257	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0317par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0314par0260	Just a moment, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0261	Mr. President, you may not promise Mr. Cameroon, but it's clear...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0318par0262	The Civil Code is clear.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0263	What we're expecting from you is right or wrong, clearly what he's saying...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0318par0264	The Civil Code is open!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0265	It's clear what Mr. Kamer Young said, Article 69, if you don't...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0318par0266	If he insists, you vote.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0267	...you're entitled, then you'll vote...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0318par0268	So you don't have the right to be appreciated here, the General Assembly will decide.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0269	Mr. President, could you please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0319par0270	Mr. Batum, I read the 161st article of the Interior Charter: (At the time of the talks) to the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Vice President of the Grand National Assembly, the Vice President of the President of the Grand National Assembly, to insult, or to curse them or to abuse the Republic of Turkey or to abuse the Constitution of Turkey;
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0271	Yes, Mr. President. We've agreed to that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0319par0272	Which congressman gives that right, Mr. Batum?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0320par0274	And who have I insulted, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0316par0275	Mr. Young, they teased me.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0319par0276	You will go out and insult the President, the Prime Minister, the MPs... please...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0320par0277	What did I tell the President? I told you, Mr. Abdullah Gul. Is it an insult to say Mr. Abdullah Gul?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0321par0278	Mr. President, are you going to decide whether it's an insult or a criticism? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit04spe0319par0279	Yes, members of the law, Mr. Young insists he wants a word. I submit to your votes whether the young man is promised or not. SINGIN ALTAY (SINOP) The decision is enough... I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0319par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 126th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. During the talks, Tunceli MP Kamer Genç asked for a word due to the bullying, and it was offered to your votes on whether or not he had been given a promise because he had refused to be given the President's decision, and the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the promise to Mr. Young, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who agree to be promised... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0322par0005	Mr. President, in your speech, you said: "You have insulted the President, the Speaker." I have no such insult, but you understand it because your understanding is poor!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0319par0006	Now, we'll resume the talks of Bill 475. The commission and the government are in place. I'm going to ask the Commission and the government if the motion for the dissolution of the clause, which is the most in violation of Article 11 of Article 11.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0323par0009	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0319par0010	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0324par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0319par0012	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0325par0014	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, on behalf of our group, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 11 of the Law Bill 475, and to all of you, I give my regards. Some of our friends who study this brochure say: "There was no harm done. " Why was there no opposition in this brochure on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group? Of course, there are some substances here that we approve of. All judges and prosecutors are expected to arrange a judicial holiday. He needs to get out of there urgently, but other than that, there were other things that we needed to give opposition to. But at last week's meetings, as members of the Republican People's Party, we protested and did not enter the meeting of the Justice Commission. The reason for this was that the country had returned to the fire site, all democratic rights had been eliminated, people had started a riot in the public movement, because police used illegal practices and non-profit force in the Gezi Park events, and those actions continued in Turkey's nearly seventy-five, eighty provinces, while people were on the streets, the pots, the pans, 70-year-old aunts, protesting against the government, the government has resigned. They say, and they want democratic rights to be given, and they want to prevent the killing of people during demonstrations, and they want to remove their peaceful demonstrations, but the Prime Minister is trying to provoke the people into the streets, and they want them to provoke each other.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0326par0016	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0327par0017	You burned it, you burned it all over the place.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0325par0018	In such an arrangement, in such an event, when Turkey was such a place of fire...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0327par0019	People have seen it, people.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0325par0020	...In the Justice Commission, we have given a number of legal regulations to the Commission, which are on the shelf of the Commission, protesting that the agenda of the Commission is to be determined by AKP MPs and AKP alone, where the democratic packages should be taken into the Commission's agenda, and, in the way the public would like, we did not participate in the Justice Commission meetings, as opposed to blocking meetings and demonstrations and eliminating any anti-democracy regulations. Oh, in this law, in this bill, I've just told you what we object to. One: trying to regulate the fundamental laws under the rule of law; the Constitutional Court annulled it. In addition, we say that we are protesting over the politicalisation of the judiciary, the political commitment of the judiciary, the amendments to the Law and the Supreme Court, and then, again, the amendments to the amendments to the ordinance of this country's non-biased and independent courts and the establishment of an anti-constitutional judicial order, as well as the establishment of a constitutional court. Because in the first place, for example, the heads of the department, the heads of the Court and the Supreme Court, when elected by the General Assembly of the Court of Appeals, the decree was made by the law that the elected heads of this agency could be reassigned to other places with the presidential board of 3-5 people, so that if decisions were made that did not work for you, the presidential board, the board of 5-6, could change the position of these judges, the members of the State and the presidents. Now, with this bill, you tried to arrange this a little bit more, it seemed to be a positive arrangement, not the presidential board, but you tried to make this arrangement with a slightly wider board, but we're learning from the Supreme Court that there's been a reaction to this, behind closed doors, and that's why we've learned that you've given up on it. First of all, if there really is going to be a democratization in this country, you need to take your hand off the judiciary, the political government has to withdraw its hand from the judiciary. In order to have a truly independent and impartial judiciary, so that the rule of law can prevail, let the political power, the Prime Minister or those cult members remove their hands from the judiciary, and let no more play on the judiciary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As long as there is a neutral and independent judiciary, democracy can be carried out in this country. This is our main opposition, and I felt the need to say it verbally. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0328par0027	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 11th draft of the current 475 rows. Instead of the provision of the article, we offer supplies and offerings. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0329par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0328par0035	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0330par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0328par0037	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0331par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute your committee. I wish the Minister of Justice was here, and he had the chance to take notes while he was discussing a few issues about the implementation of the judiciary, but I suppose the Ministry's employees are here, hopefully taking notes about the issues we've stated and taking these notes to the Minister. Now, I'd like to share with the General Assembly the table of judgment over the last few days. In the last three days, I'd like to share with you just what is the last three days of judgment, where is justice? Yesterday, our Şırnak MP, Faysal Sarıyıldıldız, who was supposed to be sitting at this time, was taken from the prison where he was being held as a political hostage to be tried and his case, as usual, was postponed to a later date. Today, Mr. Selim Yıldırım, our deputy mayor of Karliova, is being tried in front of a political judge on a theatrical matter brought up with vague indictments. Selim Yıldırım is also a severe patient; a hypertension patient, an aterosketrotic heart patient, a patient with bypass surgery and a blocker artery disease on both legs. The Deputy Mayor is a friend of ours representing the will of the people of Karliova, but this friend of ours is still being held hostage in prison with a number of theatrical indictments against him for trial. Tomorrow, our Mardin MP Gülseren Yıldırım will appear before the judge in the same way. Tomorrow, our Şırnak Mayor Ramazan Uysal and many of our mayors, our city councilman, our city general assembly member, will again face a politicalized trial from the TK case. Look, we've said over and over again that there's nothing criminal about these ACK arrests. If freedom of thought, freedom of expression and organisation, freedom of politics and freedom of press had been done in a normal legal state, our friends would be in a political race to serve their people in parliament or municipal service buildings, not as political hostages. This wrong has to be put away immediately. The Anti-Terror Law, which has led to this, has to be removed. The 215, 220 and 314th clauses that sent everyone who opened the mouth of the Turkish Penal Code to prison must now be changed. The special authorities, who have uncovered all these illegalities, must now be removed. This is a process that has been achieved in the conscience of society, determined in the conscience of society. Look, just in the last month, when you look at some of the decisions the judiciary has made, the judgment is consciously trying to get the masses out on the street, I'm telling you. You know, when they call the KCK, you know, the parallel state formation, you know, all the lawmakers, they'll look into the fact that the judiciary is in parallel with political power. The decision on Roboski has only one goal: to put the Kurds on the street. For 18 months, a trial, a theatrical decor, at the end of 18 months, it is realized that it is the duty of the military court, and it is decided to fail. In Bingöl, E. In the same way, it is an effort to put people on the street. There's still only one goal in TK cases to keep people on the street who need to be released because of their executions, their executions are over. The decision on the murderer of Ethem Sarısülük has the same purpose, putting people out on the street. We're warning you, we're warning the ruling party that this judicial mechanism is particularly parallel to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has come to a stage where a structure needs to be taken care of in terms of building. Judgeing the will from the chest in front of such a trial would cost Turkey a great deal. With this sensitivity, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0053	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 12. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0333par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0065	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0334par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0067	I'm reading the reason: The Council of Presidents' regulations under the Court of Prosecutors' Law were against the principle of natural judges and were suggested to be removed from the text of the substance, which may be a pressure on judges and could result in the appointment of a judge according to the job. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 475 rows is 13. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0335par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0081	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0336par0082	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0083	I'm reading the reason: The Council of Presidents' regulations under the Court of Prosecutors' Law were against the principle of natural judges and were suggested to be removed from the text of the substance, which may be a pressure on judges and could result in the appointment of a judge according to the job. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Bill 475, which is currently in session, is 14. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0337par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0097	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0338par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0099	I'm reading the reason: It has been suggested that the regulations of the State Law violate the principle of natural judges, and that they be removed from the text of the substance, since it may be a pressure on judges and may result in the appointment of judges according to the job. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 15th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 15. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0339par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0113	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0340par0114	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0115	I'm reading the reason: It has been suggested that the regulations of the State Law violate the principle of natural judges, and that they be removed from the text of the substance, since it may be a pressure on judges and may result in the appointment of judges according to the job. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 16th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 16. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, "August 31" was to be removed from the text of the substance, replaced by the article of September 5th, which was added to the text of the article. We respectfully offer and offer to remove the joke from the article text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0341par0128	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0129	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0342par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0332par0131	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0343par0132	Mr. President, I'd like to remind you, again, that the high judges -- the Supreme Court of Appeals, the Supreme Court of Military Government -- have what privilege, but they take 40 days off on other dates when they're on trial? Why can't the country judge and prosecutors use it? I mean, please, for an interview, I mean, we said that in the first place, but now I'm sorry to see that you've never discussed it and that you've resumed such inequality, injustice. Our judges and prosecutors who are now watching this meeting online will surely see that you are not protecting the judges of the bench, the judges who are not egalitarians and the judges who are protecting the higher judges, but who are really working, and they will probably protest these proceedings regarding you, about the AKP's power and about the ministry's savings. At least there will be some resentment in their hearts. I wanted to make that clear. And these days, especially when they come to my hometown, the peace process, and the peace process, and no one has to say anything about the peace process, it's going very well... here, they're meeting with the Prime Minister... here, the Akil Men, the other party groups, the BDP Group, and they're saying they're doing very well, but the Akil Men, for example, came running to my hometown, meeting a few chosen people in the university, even though they've been protesting, not even the Akiil men of our people, they haven't been able to go out in public. Now, here they come, wise men, we've met so many people. They didn't really talk to the people, they didn't get the people's true feelings, they didn't get their thoughts. Either they're lying to the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister seems to accept what they're saying in order to deceive the public again or to deceive such a conversation. That's not acceptable. Next to him, the peace process is going so well, so good things are being done, and violence is being made to look like it's all over, but I'd like to remind you all that on June 20th, A helicopter with the division commander was in danger of falling due to the fire of PKK terrorists and had to make a forced landing. I thought the violence was over. I thought you said the PKK's terrorist organization wasn't terrorizing him anymore, that he was considered an activist? He's been asked to be removed from the terrorist organisation list, and, you know, he's been removed from the Council of Europe. Now, are we just gonna ignore all this? Shouldn't we see them? You may not see it, you may not hear it, but our citizen is hearing it. Likewise, on June 22nd, two engineers who worked at Bitlis quarry were kidnapped by Kurdistan Workers and still in their hands. I thought you said the PKK wasn't going to act anymore. I thought they weren't going to do any armed action. Likewise, on June 25th, the construction chief was kidnapped again by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists. What is this? Who are we cheating on? Are you cheating on yourself or are we cheating on each other? First of all, the PKK needs to hand over the weapons to the state of the Republic of Turkey if it really needs peace -- peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace -- and it must say that it will never resort to armed violence. That's condition number one. Like all over the world, if such a peace process is to be committed with all terrorist organizations, as with the IRA, as with members of the ETA terrorist organization, first of all, I will not resort to violence, but I surrender my weapons. But what's the PKK doing? The gun is in my hand, you will make these arrangements. The entire state and Parliament of the Republic of Turkey is actually threatening blackmail. If you don't do this, then I will come back. Aren't these acts of violence? So will you be able to assess PKK as an activist now, making an effort to remove it from the terrorist organization list? Or even if you do, will our citizen forgive you, will he forgive the Prime Minister? So it doesn't mean anything when you say, "The process of peace" and you say, "It's a beautiful thing." You're manipulating the press, of course, which may not be heard much in the press, but it can be heard in the free press, but please, there are some very valuable deputies in you who have a responsibility to this country -- and you need to see this fact, and the real patriotic lawmakers within the AKP have to be sensitive about it. In terms of our country's future, I think you should be more sensitive to the attacks that the PKK terror organization has launched against all of us, against the division and disintegration intended to play in our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0344par0144	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on the 17th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully submit and propose that the 475-line bill, which is in the framework of Article 17 of August 31, is removed from the text of the substance, replaced by the article of September 5th. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0345par0155	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0344par0156	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0346par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0347par0158	Motive.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0344par0159	I'm reading the reason: The concept of a judicial holiday in our judicial system has been implemented for many years on July 20th and September 5th, and it is intended to be more preferable to a judicial holiday, since it is also used during the summer period. As it prevents a shortening of the judicial vacation period, it causes hesitation among citizens over the years of appeals and other periods of time in the minds. That's why the proposal was made. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers Articles 18 through 34. Omer Süha Aldan, Mügla MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the second chapter.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0348par0169	Mr. President, the bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws relating to Judiciary Services 475 is, in fact, filled with articles that evaluate the judicial holiday process. And soon, July 20th is coming, and it's important that the law comes out soon, of course, but I'd like to say something about a forensic holiday. A forensic holiday is a practice established in the Turkish law tradition. Unfortunately, this application was removed, not done, reduced to thirty-five days, and various manipulations were made over it. In the meantime, I think the judicial holiday practice has created a habit in the courts and it's appropriate to go back to the way things were, but unfortunately, there's no understanding in the bill. In particular, the working structure of our judges is now almost a necessity for a forensic holiday within the working system. What I'd like to point out here is that the fact that those who don't take advantage of a judicial holiday are allowed at the same time really won't do any good in practice. There's a point to a judicial holiday: the need for courts to stay idle during the summer, to reduce the number of trials, to a minimum, in a sense, to have a collective vacation. At the same time, the right to leave will render the judicial holiday system dysfunctional for those who accept a judicial holiday and do not take advantage of a judicial holiday. We'll see its applications tomorrow, in the future. A second point is that there is a distinction between high judges and other judges, especially when it comes to taking advantage of a judicial holiday. That's not true. Normally, it's going to be back to the old rules, and at this point, it's going to be 45 days of forensic vacations, and 30 days off for those who can't get a legal vacation. It'll be possible to apply it in the client system, but it's not an app that's been chosen. Notary-wise, municipalities were asked to open a business permit. The arrangement is a useful arrangement, and notaries, such as lawyers, will not have to ask the municipalities for a permit. The sentence was reduced to one year to five months of training for the detention center staff, and it turns out that a need has come to light. But we do hope that in this five-month short period of time, in particular in the human rights context, the staff will be given the necessary training, and that will be taken care of. I'll make a point. It was part one. Judge and prosecutors will increase the selection period for the Supreme Court and the State to 20 years. Of course, we didn't get the full price. Despite questions asked by the MPP, not enough answers were received. As far as I'm concerned, this is the revenge of 160 people. 160 people came from a certain understanding. In that sense, I think the Supreme Court has brought this 20-year period to balance with the same understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at this point, I find it helpful to address some issues related to the events of this trip. Now, what's really wanted is to create a university that is the center of the idea, professors and youth out of the mold that will bring scientific cover to ruling policies. And when they are invited to Dolmabahçe, they will be there with their faces, with women, with bright faces, with young men. However, it didn't happen. There are some young people who don't want to be obedient in the way their elders want them to be. There's a movement, a opposition to a high-rise shooting. The protests follow one another. Punishments, suspensions, visible gases, and batons on the back make these young people sharper. Actually, the power isn't aware. He can't see he's watering steel with the pressure he's exerting. Punishments and excessive use of force make young people stronger and sharper. What is the courage of youth when so many people in the country are silent? Because youth is the dominant force of social opposition. Youth is not like those who remain silent because of fear, interest, and insensitivity. Youth is the sound of their digested parents. Youth can't accept the care of some of them and be replaced. Youth is the most sensitive thermometer that shows that a country is not well managed. When you raise student loans, when you see your student problem as clothing, when you create submissive individuals in the biat culture, you're wrong, people who think they're going to end the problems, but they're also wrong, because they're diseased thinkers, who think they're corrupters or triggerers of inner-outsight centers. It is a fact that youth, joy, favourability, manipulative, and the country's independence is disturbed by practices that are eroding day after day. He is concerned that the daily way of life is intended to be transformed, and they do not want to be the subject of the project of creating youth as if it were a mold. At the same time, neoliberal policies affect youth directly. Because privatisations result in the end of the state's employment policy, the state is no longer able to create a business outside of a few thousand hiring police or teachers. Hundreds of thousands of young people who have finished their studies have to spend time in homes, street and coffee corners. Those who link their recent actions to 1968 events or Republican rallies are also mistaken. This is beyond that. With high unemployment rates and earthquakes in the economy, it is likely that student actions will first find sympathy for the unemployed and will increasingly reflect on the workers. In such an environment, the country will be involved in a new conflict, and we will face many sad incidents. First of all, the current government must try to understand young people, give up the approach that they encourage in coups, and not see them as the work of organizations or financial institutions outside. Any oppressive way to discipline these young people will only aggravate the conflict. Again, those of us who are good and those who are not of us are incompatible. The understanding of separation must also be abandoned. In addition, all political parties must analyze the situation of youth well. If they can't build a project to solve unemployment, address future anxiety, and provide them with a free university, they will be exposed to these protests in the future. New ruling figures should not be wrong to maintain AKP's neoliberal policies, and the young must be more careful from now on. They need to be careful not to see the sad consequences when they show their reaction. It is important that actions are carried out in democratic ways and fit for legal requirements. Recently, most of their rights are likely to be sabotaged, because the provocateurs who are going to infiltrate them will be at work, and they won't be able to do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's break it. Dear lawmakers, I wrote this article on my website two and a half years ago. Apparently, the current government still says it's a dead end, so I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0349par0183	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0350par0185	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on the second part of the talks of the Law Bill on Changes in Some Laws Regarding Judicial Services 475. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, while I've had the opportunity, I'm going to make some evaluations on two issues that I find very important, one of which is the election dam, and the other of which is the treasury aid. The electoral dam is the regulation that forces political parties to take a certain percentage of all valid votes at national or local level to gain representation in parliament. This arrangement prevents small parties from entering parliament, in other words, not allowing social groups under a certain number to represent economic, political, cultural and so on in Parliament. The reason for such an arrangement, though it is described as facilitating the establishment of governments by keeping the number of parties in parliament low and thus maintaining political stability, cannot be ruled out as an obstacle to democracy. Some of the democratic countries implementing the proportional representation system from the electoral systems are implementing election dams, but these dams range from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, with the highest rate of 10 per cent to Turkey. Election systems based on proportional representations of different parties in elections, which are the basis of pluralistic democratic systems, are being implemented in Turkey as of 1961, as well as in many parts of the world. However, at the same time the dam was applied to limit this pluralistic system, and the representation of parties in parliament was difficult. Today, only the country is being implemented in its dam-like representation system. However, there is no doubt that the high level of the dam makes it difficult for the democratic system to function. For example, many parties are not represented in Parliament, although they have received more than half a vote in some counties, for example, due to their failure to overcome the country's dam. This leads to mistrust in the public when they see that many games are wasted and that the party has voted for no part in parliament. In addition, the disappearance of small parties on the political floor, which advocate new and different ideas, and the continuation of power by the same parties or parties over the years, are the main problems caused by the high level of the country's dam. As a matter of fact, the problem is that democracy is at its core, and in the eyes of the people, confidence and faith in democracy has been extinguished. The choice's will statement must freely declare its weight over the outcome of the election by maintaining the same. However, the freedom of the voter is violated, since it is considered contrary to the preferences of the voters in the direction that cannot overcome the obstacle. Equal votes mean that the election goes on equal terms for everyone and that each vote is accepted at equal value for the election results. However, in the disabled d'Hondt order, the vote depends on different procedures, depending on their ability to cross the barrier and to move forward. The votes that exceed the barrier are valid, but the ones that fail are both not valid and have been changed in quality. As a matter of fact, this is a violation of the democratic state of law in the Constitution. Because a political party, which has been able to round up votes for the national voter minority, can get most of the seats in parliament, such an election order is capable of bringing to work a will that cannot be considered democratic. As a result, the dam appears to have made some changes in the election results and produced results in the benefit of parties that receive too many votes. This situation created by the election dam is lowering confidence in democracy in the public, and the psychological dam created on voters also covers the rate of voting, and the public does not choose to exercise the right to vote. In the name of democratisation of the parliamentary elections, where the people's will has an exact impact, and the public's will is reflected in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, it is imperative that the election dam be lowered. In our party's proposal of law, the election threshold is 3 percent. We think it's fair and in accordance with the European standards. We believe that the House must act in order to bring down the election dam, one of the essential steps to democratisation. Dear lawmakers are one of the main challenges of our democracy when the financial aid to political parties is not distributed fair and just. The issue of financing political parties is the top topic of long-term debates in Turkey's politics. This issue is also on the agenda of the Constitutional Court with the following amendments to the state budget of political parties. It's important to point out that these discussions are still ongoing. The arrangement for the treasury assistance of the existing Law on Political Parties undermines the principles of social justice and equality. Treasure assistance in developing democracies to ensure the independence of political parties and avoid possible economic difficulties serves another purpose in Turkey, allowing certain parties to take one step ahead of the election race. First, state aid, which entered the Law of Political Parties in 1965, was conditioned on a five per cent vote in general elections and on the condition of a specific number of agencies. However, the amendment, which was made after this, was broken by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that it was incompatible with equality, followed by a new arrangement. However, after the 1982 coup, the junta administration, which restricts the activities of political parties, did not include government assistance in the new law. In 1988, more than 7 per cent of the votes in the general election were required to receive more than 7 per cent of the vote. Applications to the Constitutional Court that the 7 per cent limit is a very high limit have been rejected on the grounds that it is not contrary to equality. However, in 1990, the number of parties with 10 MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly was convicted of receiving more than 7 per cent of the vote, but was later ordered to be at least 3 MPs. In 1995, the article that is still available in the Constitution also provides sufficient financial assistance to political parties. The provision of the government has been provided with constitutional guarantees. However, the constitutional decree that political parties may receive financial aid, although the provision that parties with at least three MPs could receive treasury assistance was changed by the EC PARTI government in 2005, preventing parties from receiving treasury aid from the Turkish Parliament, which was actually restored during the junta period. Aids and donations to political parties such as Turkey are very strict, and it is important to transfer funds from the state in a place where the tradition of donating to parties is not developed as in Europe and the United States. The cost of political parties has increased, especially in recent years, as communication technology has improved. On the other hand, some parties are being helped by treasure, while others are not being helped by it, while some parties are one step ahead of the election race with state support. For example, in general elections held on 12 June 2011, aid transferred from treasure to parties is approximately 328 million Turkish liras. The distribution of this money to parties is: AK PARTY 187 million, CHP 84 million, MHP 57 million TL. Is it possible to talk about a fair election race, given the election dam and the financial aid? I also remind you that it is in our duty and responsibility to eliminate this injustice that has clouded the legitimacy of the House, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0200	Yes, thank you. So the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. On the 18th article, there are three proposals of the same nature. This is the 18th edition of the 475 Sequence Numbered Legislature. Article 1 of the 17th Amendment under Article 2797. A) We provide and propose that the bell be changed in the following way. "a) To finalise the disputes between the law departments and the labour departments, I would like to assign another agency from the heads of law offices to form a delegation from the heads of the criminal agencies to finalise the disputes between the criminal departments, in case they are unable to look at the work of an agency due to actual or legal impropriety. Faruk Bal Murat Basesgioğlu Celal Adan Congressmans, since two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 18. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek The signatures of the other motion are: Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Muyyettin Aksak Orhan Karasayar Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Türkan Dağoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0352par0225	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0226	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0353par0227	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0354par0228	Motive...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0229	Mr. Altay, I'm reading the reason on the motion: The Council of Presidents' regulations under the Supreme Court's Law were against the natural judge's principle and were suggested to remove it from the article text, since it could be a pressure on judges. I'm reading the other reason: Given the structure of the Council of Presidents in the Supreme Court and the total number of heads of office on this board, it has been suggested that it would be helpful for the Court to establish the positions of its heads and new members, in order to address the challenges possible in the process of meeting and decision-making, and that the authority to determine the working areas of its members and new members would be found on the First Presidential Board. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Since the proposed clause was removed from the text, there is no way to process the motion of Konya MP Faruk Bal and his friends. That's why I'm taking this motion off the table. There are two motions on Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 19. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the draft of Article 19 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws in connection with the 475 Numbered Judicial Services, which are being discussed, and that other substances be evaluated accordingly. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Muyyettin Aksak Türkan Dağoğlu Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Orhan Karasayar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0355par0251	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0252	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0356par0253	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0254	I'm reading the reason: Since these provisions are contrary to the principle of natural judges and may be a pressure on judges, the Article text has been suggested to be removed. I'm reading the other reason: Given the structure of the Council of Presidents in the Supreme Court and the total number of heads of office on this board, it has been suggested that it would be useful for the Court to remain on the First Presidential Board, in order to address the challenges possible in the process of meeting and making decisions. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The clause was removed from the text by the accepted motion. There are two motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 20 of the Law bill be changed in the following way, regarding the 475 Orders of Judiciary Services. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mehmet S. The children of Hamza Mehmet Akyürek Hamza Mountain Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu The first and fourth jokes of Article 29 of Law 20 - 2797 have been changed as follows. "Judge members are elected among the judges and prosecutors of the Republic, who have served well for at least three years after first class and who have not lost their qualifications for first class. To be elected a member of the Supreme Court, it is imperative that you work in the profession of judge and prosecutor for 20 years." "The Court of Justice shall also announce the situation of the first presidential council to the board of officials, stating that the need is needed, that the discharges are a member of the criminal and legal department." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 475 rows, is frame 20. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0357par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0282	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0358par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0284	I'm reading the reason: Since these provisions are contrary to the principle of natural judges and may be a pressure on judges, it has been recommended to be removed from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 20 of the Law bill be changed in the following way, regarding the 475 Orders of Judiciary Services. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The first and fourth jokes of Article 29 of Law 20 - 2797 have been changed as follows. "Judge members are elected among the judges and prosecutors of the Republic, who have served well for at least three years after first class and who have not lost their qualifications for first class. To be elected a member of the Supreme Court, it is imperative that you work in the profession of judge and prosecutor for 20 years." "The Court of Justice shall also announce the situation of the first presidential council to the board of officials, stating that the need is needed, that the discharges are a member of the criminal and legal department." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0359par0296	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0297	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0360par0298	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0299	I'm having it read. In addition to the current conditions, it is required that the period spent in the judicial and prosecutor's profession is 20 years, including the duration of administrative duties, so that you can be elected as a member of the Supreme Court and prosecutor's office. As it is known, in Article 43 of the Law on the Court of Justice Courts of Justice and District Courts No. 5235, the Chief Justice of the District Court of Justice has not lost the first class, the head of the Court of Justice, the head of the Court of Justice, the first class of the Court of Justice, and the members of the Court of Justice and prosecutors who have been elected to the Court of Justice in the first class and the Supreme Court of Justice for at least eight years, the Court of Justice and Prosecutors who have been appointed to be appointed to the first class and Prosecutors of the Supreme Court. Given the qualifications set in Articles 43 and 44 of Law 5235, there may be at least thirty-seven, thirty-eight or older judges and prosecutors assigned to district court courts. Given the conditions for working for three years after being assigned to the Supreme Court's first class to be elected a member of the Supreme Court, the age of being appointed to court courts in the region will be close to each other. It is expected that judges and prosecutors who will be appointed to court courts in the region will benefit from their duties and experience in these courts and will be able to be elected to the Supreme Court in order to ensure a gradual transition if necessary. In order to be elected to the Supreme Court, the requirement is at least 20 years in the profession of judges and prosecutors. Memberships which are also discharged with the clause are also organised to be determined as punishment and law, and to be notified to the board of officials, and to be eligible to meet the needs of the Supreme Court. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 21. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0361par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0315	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0362par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0317	I'm reading the reason: The Court of Appeals Act has been proposed to remove it from the Article text because it has given other judicial members an unrecognizable warrant and is in violation of the principle of equality. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 475 rows is 23. We respectfully offer and offer the opinion of the Turkish Justice Academy on the issue of the article. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0363par0331	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0332	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0364par0333	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0334	I'm having it read. All arrangements for judges and prosecutors, which should be independent and neutral, according to their duties, should be made by the HSYK. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 475 rows, is 26. Instead of removing the clause "Thirteenth August" from the text of the article, we respectfully submit and propose that "September 5th" be added to the text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0365par0349	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0350	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0366par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0352	I'm reading the reason: The concept of a judicial holiday in our judicial system has been implemented for many years on 20 July 5 September, and it has been intended to be more preferable to a judicial holiday, since it is also used during the summer period. As it prevents abbreviated legal vacation time, it also causes hesitation amongst citizens over the years of appeals and other periods of time in the minds. That's why the proposal was made. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 27: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "lawyers and prisoners" under Article 85 of Article 5275 under Article 27 of the current 475 bench bill shall be changed to Article 85 of the Penal Code. İdris Baluken Secret Sadik Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 475 Orders Numbered Bill 27. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Faruk Bal Mehmet Şandir Celal Adan S. Nevzat Korkmaz Murat Basesgioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0367par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0372	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0368par0373	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0351par0374	The person who wants to speak on the proposal is Konya MP Faruk Bal.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0369par0376	Mr. President, the matter we're proposing is about visiting prisons and meeting prisoners in prisons. That authority used to be in the D.A.'s office. Now, that authority is under the law of the Ministry of Justice. So far, nothing seems to be wrong. However, the word "official" found in the text at the time of the purchase is taken out. See, that's where the problem comes from. The person who claims that Turkey has the right to Turkey's rights violations and the outside focal points for Turkey's interference with terror events, the institutions and organizations want to enter prisons using this clause, allowing certain actions there to be evaluated according to their own measure. In the old article, in fact, before the change, it began as an official person, institution, and organizations. In that case, there was an organization that the government knew who it was, who was dealing with, who had an official reputation, and who was demanding it. Now, when you remove the official identity, you will be able to ensure that institutions are queued in front of the Ministry of Justice, the person who has no idea what to do, when to deal with, how to deal with, how to deal with. And since you've established that authority in such a way that you can use it, with this law, then, Mr. Secretary, you're the one who's going to suffer the most. We, of course, make this motion, not your own, not your government, but the state of the Republic of Turkey's justice department to avoid such trouble. Therefore, as a state, as a government, as a ministry, it is necessary to conduct the official prison where those who can carry the incidents to the world's public and to the Turkish public must be dealt with, which must be determined by its official reputation. If you take this power, the first danger you face is coming from India, China, gargantuan, song, and you've given way to people who will polarise Turkey, including ethnic rhetoric about Turkey, which is about further and further ethnic rhetoric. In action of this sentence, this demand has already begun, Mr. Minister, the voice from Kandil has risen; that is not how it is. It began. The person they refer to as "Our Leader" is a prisoner. Whereas he speaks to you, Imran, for you are solving the problem of terrorism to the prisoner. We don't want messengers from time to time, we don't want messengers from time to time. We want to meet directly. He says. Now, if you remove the word "official" now, you will be able to communicate directly. The issues I've been talking about so far, in a pink glasses, were to protect you, your Ministry, and the state of the Republic of Turkey, but from this point of view, I'm asking, did you, in turn, bring this law in order to get them to talk to Imralı, who will come from Kandil? That's our suspicion. Therefore, you must observe this suspicion. This doubt does not make the Ministry of Justice, Minister, and this doubt does not allow the prisons to be managed. It's your witness who's going to raise that suspicion. So, what flaw did you see in the word "official" that you're getting out of here now? You're just making this law in case, you know, behind-the-scenes talks, just in case it takes a step forward, but do you know what his future will be? Do you know what risks Turkey will take in the future? Do you know that in the future, every terrorist organization will come up with such demands? I don't think you know any of this. So, dear lawmakers, we tried to look at this bill as positively as possible, and we shared with you what we saw, what we saw was wrong. This country is not only the responsibility of the MHP, it is your responsibility. Now we'll see, he'll be your responsibility. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0383	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "lawyers and prisoners" under Article 85 of Article 5275 under Article 27 of the current 475 bench bill shall be changed to Article 85 of the Penal Code. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0371par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0391	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0372par0392	Mr. President, we don't agree because we already have a sentence in our penal code that the prisoners will benefit from these provisions. In that sense, the motion is in the law of procedure. We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0394	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0373par0395	Motive...
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0396	I'm reading the reason: The institution aims to meet with the prisoners during prison visits by the board and organisations. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 28: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose that the declaration of "until two days" under Article 116 of the 5275 Penal Code under Article 28 of the current 475 rows of the bill shall be changed into "five days" and added to the joke of the following sentence. "In the duration of this permit, the prisoner or prisoner will be granted the right to phone calls under the relevant regulations which regulate the calls of prisoners and prisoners." İdris Baluken İstane Assad Canan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 475 rows is 28. In the last sentence of the clause, we respectfully submit and propose that "three" be added from the text to the "two" phrase. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Mahmut Tanal Turgut Dibek Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0374par0416	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0417	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0375par0418	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0419	I'm reading the reason: A motion has been made to make the text of matter more understandable and more favourable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose that the declaration of "until two days" under Article 116 of the 5275 Penal Code under Article 28 of the current 475 rows of the bill shall be changed into "five days" and added to the joke of the following sentence. "In the duration of this permit, the prisoner or prisoner will be granted the right to phone calls under the relevant regulations which regulate the calls of prisoners and prisoners." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0376par0429	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0430	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0377par0431	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-06-27sit05spe0370par0432	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement was made so that the prisoner or the prisoner who received permission for the funeral of his relatives could accept condolences during this permit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with Pan-Europe-Akdeniz Preferenced Laws on the Approvement of the Regional Convention. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission was not to be found after this, the decision was made to discuss the Development Plan and the Plan and Budget Commission Report on Monday (July 1st 2013) at 13 p.m. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
