tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 93nth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes, and the government can respond to these conversations. The first non-responsive statement is from Malatya MP Mustafa Şinahan, who asked for the anniversary of the death of the late President Turgut Özal. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, we have been promised the anniversary of the murder of our late 8th President, Turgut Ozal. I salute you all. Again, 35 years ago, as it turns out, I'd like to remember them with mercy and gratitude, along with the death of our legendary mayor, Hamit Fendoglu, his late daughter-in-law and his two children. Dear friends, the world that's globalized has become the late Turkut Özal, which brings change and transformation to the agenda of our politics. He has led a mental revolution to take place, expressing that today's matters cannot be dealt with with with with past information. He is the late Ozal, who has completely changed the paradigm of classical politics, trying to establish and implement the modern politics of the world in Turkey. He had a philosophy that would pave the way for the transition from the representative democracy to the participant democracy to establish the building blocks and make the sovereignty of the national will prevail. As we head toward the 21st century, we see that developing three major fundamental freedoms is an indispensable condition for us to be one of the leading states of the democratic, civilized world - freedom of thought, freedom of religion, and freedom of conscience. Energy, telecommunications, economic policies, foreign trade, have pave the way for significant improvements. In many areas, such as constitutional reform, presidential system, privatisation, education, healthcare, and security reform, his life has not been loyal. His Islamic identity was a leader who compromised universal values. In light of faith, freedom, and science, it has allowed our people to bring their capacity to the light of the sun. Ozal was a man of thought and action who knew the state and the private sector very well, turned his face to society, came from the public, gave his image to the public. Precious lawmakers are a sign of how much the party he founded, founded on May 20, 1983, was accepted by the public on November 6, 1983, when he came to power, just as the AK PARTY did. It is one of the rare individuals who managed to recruit 211 of the 400 MPs and 292 of the 400 MPs in the second general election. In his second congress of the day, which he had done, called Eagle Demirağ, which had a climate of thought, which was still a mystery, he was tried to be assassinated by Zat, and as a result of that assassination, as soon as he woke up and took the values he believed in, he was still a standing figure and a worthy man who cried out that God could not take the life he had given us but for himself. Despite the many missteps of political rivals, he has always shown that, of course, we are not used to those who say, "You will get used to it," and you will get used to it. By breaking the taboos, he was free from courageous, boned judgments, looking at things from an open perspective of change, innovation. Ozal, who stepped up as a reformer in politics, signed structural reforms that turned Turkey, overturned established rules, said the 21st century would be the century of Turks and Turkey, and dedicated his life to the nation, is also one of the individuals who gave his life to the nation. Again, at the funeral ceremony, there was a banner held by an apocalyptic crowd: the civil, democratic, religious president. They were describing the political personality of Turgut Özal, as well as the qualities that the Turkish community wanted to see in a president. Dear friends, the latest development is the 13th indictment prepared to ensure that this unsolved incident does not expire again. We are truly hopeful that Ankara's High Criminal Court accepts it. In order to lay the groundwork for the coups, we also see that the killings of Uğur Mumcus, Adnan Coffeemakers, Malatian Esref Bitlis Pasha, 33 of our soldiers on the way to Elazig, the massacres of Madimak, the massacre of the Tebaskets, the massacre of Mehmet Sincar of the DEP., the martyring of Brigadier Bahtiyar Aydın, the killing of 35 people in the village of Erzurum, and the killing of 50 people in the village of Yavi, were not a coincidence on the terms of that day. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I thank you and thank you again for the grace of God to our President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. And we, the Supreme Court, honor and honor the late President of the Republic, Turgut Ozal. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Mehmet Şeker, who asked for a word on the 1st anniversary of the murder of Dr. Ersin Arslan, and the point of violence in health. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise to remember Dr. Ersin Arslan, who was stabbed to death by a relative of a patient's exactly a year ago, to draw attention to violence in health once again. I hereby salute you and all health workers. Dear lawmakers, Dr. Ersin Arslan, 30 years old, was a very successful physician; he was born on March 14, Medical Day; he left surgery on April 17, 2012, and was stabbed to death by a relative of his patient. It was MG who stabbed Dr. Ersin Arslan. The killer was MG, but who or who was the one who ordered it? It was those who called it the end of the days of the Doctor. Let the physicians take their hands off the patient's pockets. Those who provoked the people against the doctor were instigators. Yes, the MG stabbed Dr. Ersin Arslan. However, it was the system that killed Dr. Ersin Arslan, dear friends. With this system, which is referred to as a health transformation, the public has been promised a free, unregistered, nonprofit health care. However, the health care service, as it was said, could not only be reached with a birth certificate; on the contrary, there were contributions, participation, and additional fees for every level of health care. It wasn't the right time for health care. The line grew every day because the performance system began forcing hospital administrations and hospital administrations to look at more patients. Health care wasn't without problems, because to care for more patients, her medical period also needed to be reduced. Thus, while the citizen was disappointed, the workload of doctors on the other side of the system increased. Doctors and medical staff found themselves working 24/7, flexible, uncompromising, under duress and risk. Now, imagine a system where a doctor is forced to take care of 200-230 patients a day. Put yourself in the position of the citizen and put yourself in the doctor's shoes. Would you hand your child over to a doctor who's seen 150 patients, who's limited to five minutes? Or imagine you're trying to fix hundreds of people's problems in one day under the anxiety of being bullied, insulted, murdered. That's the system. The system's planners, its enforcers, both sides are unhappy, restless, victims. However, when problems arise, the doctor does not think at all, and the citizen says, "The doctor is the cause of the problem." He provokes against the doctor, and eventually, the patient and the doctor face each other. This system is predetermined. Our colleagues, medical rooms, health unions, bureaucrats, are constantly warned. Aside from listening to these sounds, wars are being waged against doctors; hints, accusations are made to humiliate doctors in the public eye; doctors and health workers are turned to target boards, and by April 17, 2012, they are feared, and the system takes the life of a young doctor, a very successful, hardworking, dedicated doctor. Has this reduced health violence in a year? What measures have been taken to reduce violence in health? Violence against doctors and health workers continues without slowing down. In the seven months from May 2012 to the end of 2012, the number of attacks against doctors and health workers is 4,425, dear friends. The figure was given by the Minister of Health himself. Dear friends, can you show another profession in which 60 percent of your employees face violence? Can you show me any other business besides hospitals where thousands of attacks took place? The measures taken to reduce violence in health are limited to physical measures, such as increasing the number of security guards, increasing the number of cameras. However, in terms of deterrentism, violence must be increased to the health worker. In the part of the Turkish Penal Code, titled "intentional injury," the punishment can be increased if there is an injury to a public employee, but those who inflict violence on doctors or employees in the private health institution and organization can avoid this increased punishment. On the other hand, those who inflict violence on a health worker are immediately released for trial without arrest. Because there is no clear statement among the cases in the Penal Code concerning the arrest warrant, that the courts will be judged by those who are violent with the health worker. It's important that the law proposal I've prepared to clear both gaps and present to the Speaker of the House should come to the General Assembly at once and be accepted. This support is very important to end violence in health. This support is very important to keep the Ermen from dying. In this sense, he hopes that you will not withhold your support; for if it were not for a timeless, unprovoked reason, our dear colleague, Dr. Ersin Arslan, who would continue to serve our country very importantly, remembers him with mercy, and pay my respects to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ali Halaman, the Adana MP who asked about the problems of Adana and its districts. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of Adana and its districts. Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me such an opportunity. I salute your high council with my best feelings. Before I get to the problems, the politician is at the point of bringing up the problems, the problems of the region from time to time. Therefore, the state pays the politician, and says, "Move my problems, my problems, for better or for worse, to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." So, once in a while, when I go to our territory, they say of the party that has been in power for ten years, they've created a new mind. But they said they'd serve when they asked for a vote. We voted, but now a man of reason is in such a state, free from our problems because of separation, division, disintegration. So he stopped dealing with our problems, our problems, and in this country he's trying to dig through Turkishness, so our social life, our spiritual life, in different ways, piece by piece. Just so you know. Again, Adana has 15 districts. One of the districts of Adana is Saimbeyli. Saimbeyli is 100 miles [197 km] to Adana, so it's a very old town, a place where the national struggle breathes. He's got 25 villages, 3 neighborhoods, usually the people of that area's livelihood, he's got vineyards, he's got cherries, he's got forest work, he's got forest work, he's got people taking care of the forest, he's got more livestock in one area. Okuryazarı has many people who are sensitive to social life, political and economic issues, and one of the oldest districts of our Adana, a district from 1920, called Saimbeyli. Saimbeyli is the only reason he's from Saimbeyli: a district that struggles in the national struggle -- a law school student who leaves school in half, struggles there to rid Saimbeyli of French occupation -- and is called Saimbeyli today. Saimbeyli, especially because of these 2/B Laws recently, many victims and the public are going to sell you at the current government's exorbitant price for their long-term residences. So, the first, second law came out, and they're expecting a third of it. Again, in the past decade, the group roads of this county, drinking water, village roads, and so on have been served, but today, for ten years, none of this has been completed. Again, the roads connected with Adana through Feke-Kozan, which we call Kayseri Develi, were not completed, so they did not begin. In 2012, in our district of Saimbeyli, this power closed down the court of the district of Saimbeyli, which has a history. So the Saimbeys want their own courthouse and cadastro again. Finally, there's the AKP Mayor, who's left his job, and he's leaving his job, and he's giving a new place to three or five friends who are grocery stores, as if they're saying, "Leave your job." This new chain of markets is what they call a BIM. So, in these counties... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's not right to bring this chain of markets. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0062	Now, I'm going to make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0064	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0008par0065	Mr. President, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0067	Excuse me, Mr. Horseman, just a moment, sir...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0068	Mr. President, today...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0069	Mr. Pitcher, just a second... the Minister wants to answer.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0070	Sir, you promised, I'll finish my promise, and then if you'd like.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0071	No, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0072	Mr. President, you promised me, so let me finish.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0073	Mr. Horseman, the ministers have the right to respond to the speakers.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0074	Mr. President, now, you promised...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0075	Please, after that, maybe the Minister can answer yours.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0076	Mr. President, he's gone.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0077	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0078	Mr. President, she passed, she passed. You promised me, keep your promise.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0079	I didn't see it, sir. I'm sorry, I'll be fine.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0080	Sir, there are reports of Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0081	Mr. Horseman, I beg you, this is our way. Mr. Ministers can answer, and then we'll promise the friends in order.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0082	Sir, you've given your word, you've interrupted me.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0083	No, sir, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0084	It's over, it's over. I'm protesting this.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0007par0085	What are you protesting?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0009par0086	Oh, for God's sake, can you come back like this?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0010par0087	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you, too. Sir, in particular, I have been promised to answer the speech of Mr. Ali Halaman, our Adana MP, who is speaking off the agenda, and I salute everyone. Let me start by saying that our project is a unity, unity, brotherhood project. Anyway, we run this project to consolidate the unity, unity, brotherhood of an entire nation, the brotherhood project. In addition, our Prime Minister always says, "One country." He says, "One state." He says, "One nation." He says, "One flag." He says, "There's nothing better than this?" That's what we all want. Of course, by the way, I pray for God's mercy again to the late Ozal. They really had a great service to clear the way for Turkey. So we named his memory after a dam in Malatya, under the orders of our Prime Minister, God rest his soul. Besides, Mr. Ali, our esteemed MP, has just mentioned Mr. Saim, really Mr. Saim is a hero. I've read about Mr.Saim. He's one of the heroes who really fought against the French and saved it, so may his soul rest in peace. I mean, we need to keep these people's names alive, and it's a real pride to have his name in the county. God rest his soul. Now, sir, of course, I have all these problems with Saimbeyli, and we will do whatever it takes. Of course, our representatives will tell us if there are some missing persons here, if there are critics. But I think that if they talk about what was done to Adana when they were making such criticisms or demands, it will be helpful in this regard, and it will increase the enthusiasm and excitement of the workers. Look, I got very short, very short words... In particular, we have invested about $6.1 billion in Adana in the last ten years, or 6.1 quadrillion. Among them are our, of course, major investments in Adana, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. So so far, we've opened up 400 thousand acres to modern watering in Adana. Other than that, we've done a lot of river reforms. Some of the projects include construction of Chotlu Pumpwater Watering, work on watering canals in Lower Seyhan Plains, and again the low Seyhan Plain IV. We've finished all the watering and drainage. At the Aslantas II Mehale Project, we opened to water 4,960 per cent of the land with the Right Coast Dilekkaya Juice. Gene, we've completed the first part of the right and left pump watering to the walnuts, and we've opened the 44,340 to water the land. Other than that, we've been watering 64,100 per cent of land with Ovarian Plain Glamour Suction. Misis I. We're running Project Haile. There's a drainage project, and I'm not going to talk about it. We also completed the Heartful Sword Pond and watering, which would protect Adana from the flood. Other than that, we've reformed exactly 16 streams, including five counties, 13 villages, including the Saimbeyli district center, where we've reformed 16 streams, including Obruk Creek. I'd like to make that very clear. We have huge irrigation facilities at the construction stage. In particular, I want to give you another good news: You know, things are going very fast about the watering of the Imamoglu Plain, which will water 750,000 hectares -- 750,000 acres -- that is -- that is -- that are going to water the plains. We have 40 per cent of the transmission channel in particular, and we will soon complete the 1,400m channel production. Also, the 1st part of the Imamoglu irrigation ended 50 per cent of the facilities that would serve 45,520 per cent of the land, and we will complete the rest next year. Also, the Imamoglu irrigation is the S1 main channel and network, the Adana-Misis 2n Merhale Chariot Watering, which continues rapidly. I'd like to emphasize this in a nutshell. Other than that, there are 18 more river reforms going on. And I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. We have many projects in the project phase, but in the meantime, we've scheduled 13 ponds and watering in Adana, and we're going to water 38,860 acres in Adana. As these are very important, our citizens are wondering, for the first time, we're explaining. In that respect, with your permission, I will read their names quickly: Aladağ Dölekli Pond, Aladağ Dölekli Pond Watering; Pozant Oilstone Pond, Pozant Oilstone Pond Watering; Central Yellowcham Snow Lakes and Watering; Central Yellowcham Baklalı Pond, Central Yellowcham Baklam Baklalet Watering; Kozan Loktepe Pond and Watering; Karaisian Ironchit Pond and Waters; Kazan Postkasakasaka Lakes and Watering; and Melman's Watering; and 13 November, and 13 November, we received the project. My deputy just told me about forestry activities. Of course, Saimbeyli is a forested area. We give the forest villagers all the support we can get. In fact, I told my friends that the forest service is not the enemy of the forest villagers, but it is the enemy of the villagers. In fact, right now, with a regulation, we're personally planting products such as nutmeg, almonds, and peanut pines, especially in the bad forest areas that are close to forest villagers. It belongs to the forest service for three years, but we're totally cutting in. We're delivering as many trees as we can to citizens by drawing straws. In the last ten years, there have been 1,290,270 acres of work, especially 125 million trees and saplings. There was an area of wildlife in Adana. And I want to emphasize here that we've solved the problem with this area. Of course, our meteorological General Directorate has set up 12 automated weather measuring stations. These are the centers of Adana, Karaisan, Karataş, Kozan, Ceyhan, Eggs, Pozant, Ceyhan, TIGEM, Imamoglu, Çukurova Agriculture Management, Saimbeyli and Hurlbeyli. It is now possible to see the weather of Saimbeyli from all over the world. There are now four more demands. Congressman, I've instructed them to set up as well. And there shall be four more for Feke, and for Aladağ, and for Sarıcham, and for Çukurova. Of course, not only do we serve, but our other ministries, for example, our Ministry of Health, are doing a great deal of service sometimes. In fact, we did a study to make Adana a health tourist centre for Middle East and Central Asia, especially Arab countries, and even the DSI had areas, and we handed it over to the Ministry of Health. So far, 35 health facilities have been opened, including four public hospitals. Our National Ministry of Education built 4,830 new classrooms, and a total of 24 units were opened, especially within the existing universities in Adana, 12 at the foundation universities. Of course, the road was mentioned. Look, the roads in Adana really are... and we know what Adana was like. Reaching Adana was a big problem, but it is now possible to reach Adana by highways. In addition, the road that was divided 133 kilometers was made during our time to Adana. Hopefully, if there are any more, Congressman, I'll follow whatever path is missing. In Adana, agriculture is very important, watering is important. And our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has given us an agricultural support of $1 billion,660 million in the last decade. IN Adana, $1 billion 58 million invested in the last ten years, building 12,896 dwellings, and offering them to the service of the Adanans. Studies are being carried out under SCEADS and BELDES, continuing to be carried out. I mean, especially Adana is really in our hearts. Our Adana is a province in which we are truly proud. It is also our duty as servants of Adana, of course, to do whatever it takes to do with forest and waterworks dams, ponds, irrigation facilities, drinking water supply, and other forest activities, as well as whatever it takes to do with national parks. Of course, I've received our deputy's demands, and hopefully I'll follow him about Saimbeyli. Of course, there's not only Saimbeyli, there's Hurlbey. In the meantime, we remember him with mercy like Mr.Saim. I salute everyone with these feelings again. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0011par0120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0012par0121	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0011par0122	Now, Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0013par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, today is the 1st anniversary of the murder of our brother, Dr. Ersin Arslan. Doctors are being killed because of the transformation programme in health care, and violence to health workers is increasing 17 times as much. So, today, with this banner in my hand, we condemn violence in health, and we say that transformation in health causes doctors to die. We say that the Minister of Health, especially the Prime Minister, should pay attention to what he says, and that this system that kills physicians, destroys health workers, is violent, needs to be immediately reviewed and reformed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0014par0128	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Halaman, I believe you have a question.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0015par0131	It's not a question, Mr. President. Thank you, and thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your explanation, and I say, God bless you, but this was all about to be done in the past tense. So I know how to make the Dam for Seven Eyes, how to turn it into HESS, how to give it to SANKO. So, to me, Mr. Minister... there's the Lakes District of Saimbeyli Karakuyu, the drinking water project here. Thus, our Kadirites, the Sumbasites, the Kozans usually go to that area. Have they worked as hard as a point on this irrigation project for ten years? That's all he needs to say. I thank him. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0016par0134	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Güyük...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0017par0137	Mr. President, people's health rights, their right to live, are one of the most sacred rights. A year ago today, our brother, Dr. Ersin Arslan, who spent his entire life serving people, was brutally murdered by an incident. All politicians, executives, NGOs, and decision-making leaders need to demonstrate their reaction to this issue in a high language. The deep friendship between physician-patients, the honor of medicine and social dignity must be maintained, noting that medicine - the hand of healing - is untouchable. On this occasion again, I ask God's mercy upon our brother. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0018par0140	Thank you, Mr. Güyük. Your Honor... no. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0019par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Kahramanmarash Afşin Elbistan thermal power plant and our sugar factory in Kahramanmarash Elbistan are within the scope of privatisation. Our staff here is in a lot of trouble. In this privatisation scope, what will their position be, will they be given their exits, or will they be put on full staff, especially our staff working at the sugar factory are in a great deal of trouble. Other than that, one of the biggest problems is transportation. There is a great deal of difficulty in transportation between the thermal power plant and the sugar factory and the Elbistan-Afşin-Heramanmarash. Mr. Secretary, we ask the government, in this matter, to address these issues immediately, these difficulties in our northern accidents. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0020par0148	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Mr. Sakine Oz...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0021par0151	Mr. President, the violence in health continues without slowing down. The point in the health system, based on transformation and performance, continues to employ health workers with the threat of loss of income. And I, once again, remember Dr. Ersin. I support one day of medical workers' layoffs. I also celebrate the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the village institutes, with respect and gratitude for all the Ataturkers and secular educators.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0022par0154	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0023par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. On 6/12/2012, I submitted a question proposal for Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehdi Eker to answer the matter of olive oil that was smuggled from Syria into our country and what needed to be done to prevent and examine the negative impact on our sector. The response states that olive oil was not smuggled into our country from Syria. According to reports still in the newspapers, however, the Free Syrian Army militants looting oil factories in Syria, Azez, Manbej, and El Bab have reportedly smuggled stolen oil into Turkey, and the price of illegal olive oil has dropped to 1.25 lira in wholesale sales. With around 20 per cent of our own production, which is smuggled from Syria onto 200,000 tons of unknowable production this season, considering the problems with the marketing of so much oil, how will local producers be cured? What measures will be taken to prevent olive oil from crossing the border illegally?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0022par0159	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0024par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 20th anniversary of the death of Mr. Turgut Özal, the 8th President. We bless him as the Republican People's Party Group. Turgut Ozal was a man who had made great breakthroughs in the opening of our economy, in the emergence of a competitive structure. We reminisce about him. Today is also the 1st anniversary of the death of Dr. Ersin Arslan. I ask God's mercy to Ersin Arslan, who died in an attack on the job, and I give all of you respect in the hope of creating an environment where both health workers and all workers can work in a nonviolent environment.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0025par0165	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0026par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, we would like to announce through you that today is the anniversary of the massacre of Ersin Arslan. Of course, over the course of a year, more than 7,000 physicians and health workers were again subjected to violence, and no measures were taken. When we look at the decisions made by the commission, well, they have some positive things, but they don't come out. They have a two-point bill, which they don't bring in in half an hour of law when this great House demands it. They want a two-point law passed, and it needs to come. You've also been crying out for convincing rooms, rooms are now being used by a certain union as a mobbing to health workers, and violence is currently under way, especially through the presidents of the public hospital union and the presidents of those health unions. We also condemn this, and we want this taken care of. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0027par0171	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0028par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Minister: Mr. Minister, is that the Enlightenment Dam, which you laid down with high hopes in Amasya, has stopped for four or five months. Companies that build this Aydınca Dam often change, while the Americans who work here are victims of both workers and suppliers. What is the condition of this Light Dam, which you promised the Americans in a very short time? Have you given up making the Light Dam, or will this be over as soon as possible? I'd like to ask you on behalf of the Americans. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0029par0177	Moving on.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0030par0178	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0031par0181	Mr. President. Today is the Day of Sorceration of the Crushers. In the culture of persecution, I celebrate the Day of Sorkamah, a symbol of the beginning of the new year and the rebirth of nature. I wish this holiday would bring peace and peace to human relations. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0032par0184	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mr. Secretary, would you care to respond?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0033par0186	Mr. President, I think I'm the only one left.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0034par0187	If you can promise us as group presidents...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0032par0188	Sir, you know we're giving it to 10 people. The Minister has 20 minutes to talk, ten minutes to talk, so I asked him if he wanted to answer.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0035par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0032par0190	Ten, sir. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0035par0192	So we're waiting for you to make a promise to the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0036par0193	Sir, I have a water question for the Minister.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0032par0194	Okay, and I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0035par0195	But right now, we need to go see the Speaker.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0032par0196	No, no, this isn't a negotiation now, it's a ten-man deal.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0037par0198	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have had some questions in particular, and I followed them very carefully. Part of it is related to my Ministry, other ministries, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health. We'll follow them, of course. Indeed, we condemn violence against physicians and health workers. The necessary measures are being taken, and if the opposition has other recommendations, we will take them into consideration. In addition, Mr. Dedeoğlu mentioned transportation in Elbia, and the thermal plant there. I'll pass them on to the Minister of Transport. Other than that, our Amasian deputy, the Lightca Dam is walking, walking, our word is ours. I'm following up, and I'll give you more information. Other matters are related to the Ministry of Health, and we'll pass them along. Mr. Secretary has made a statement about illegal olive oil, but I'm going to return your question to the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0038par0204	Mr. Secretary, our citizens are also asking you for information about the dams on this Skysu River.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0037par0205	I also noted the dams on the Skysu River. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0038par0206	No, we want to know about the dams on the Silifke Skysu River.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0037par0207	Okay, we'll follow them. I'll follow some dams and ponds on the Skysu River, and I'll give you a detailed description of them. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0039par0209	Mr. Secretary, I have a question about the Kartkaya Dam in Gemerek.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0037par0210	Okay, I'll answer to you in writing about them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0040par0212	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0041par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today is the 20th anniversary of the death of our President, Turgut Özal. We believe Mr. Ozal was killed, especially because he had an understanding of the Kurdish problem and the democratisation of Turkey, trying to bring bold policies into play 20 years ago. The public doubts about this have not been resolved. The latest forensic reports still don't meet public expectations. We feel that the secret about the death of a president must be removed. We think that all details of this death should be shared in a way that satisfy the public. Again, today is the 1st anniversary of the loss of Dr. Ersin Arslan, who was murdered by a patient last year. Although a year has passed, the violence against health workers and physicians continues, unfortunately. It is also known to the public that in the work done by the MECI research commission in this matter, the main reason is the Health Transformation Project. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In particular, we are renewing the need for health care in the first place, in the immediate removal of the Health Transformation Programme, in the principle of social statehood, to be equal, accessible, qualified, free, and in the native language.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0042par0220	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0043par0223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the National Party of Action, we condemn the violence that health workers see. We share their resistance, their reaction, their pain. We also ask blessings from Almighty God to all health workers who have lost their lives. I also ask the Minister, especially the people living in Mut and around him, that the dams planned to be built on the Skysu River should be given detailed information about project work, construction work, tender work -- because, our village is waiting, even though we are being given information, to our citizens -- to be informed. I've been promised these. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0044par0228	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0045par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. And we, the AK PARTY Group, in the 20th year of eternity, honor and thanks to our former prime minister and president, Turgut Ozal. The late Ozal led Turkey's transformation and transformation into the outside world. Despite all the hardships and obstacles of Turkey's democratic structure as a personal political man and also as a valued statesman, Turkey has fought hand in hand with the nation to ensure the success of its development move. And once again, We remember him with mercy and gratitude. In the same way, as the AK PARTY Group, I would like to say once again that we condemn all kinds of violence and, at the same time, violence against health workers, and on this occasion, we welcome Dr. Ersin Arslan, who died as a result of his violence, and the other health workers who lost their lives. Once again, we wish there were no cases. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0046par0237	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'll have them read separately. Since the first parliamentary survey motion I will read is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be added to the Book magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 1970s, the district of Dilovası, which started in the 1970s, and was able to move the industrial movement of Istanbul to the east of Istanbul, where the industry met intensive industries in parallel with the need for large and cheap land, and this industrialisation has become a very serious defiling area, especially because it is happening in the fields of chemistry, iron-tall, paint industry, and pollutant industries. In Dilovasi, where industrial facilities and housing areas are crooked and unplanned, the negative pressure the industry has put on the district in terms of environment and health has shown itself that the cancer-related deaths in the region have tripled the average of Turkey, and this has become a topic that has often appeared in the national media. In 2006, it is evident that the TBMM commission, which investigates the effects of industrial waste on the environment and human health, has been ignored in the practice in this region, which is the primary principle of human health and environment. Despite the fact that the region is still being surrounded by industry without a plan. The Commission report further debates on the establishment of the four new OSBs, which are one of the four new OSBs, despite the view that new industry is no longer allowed in the district. The impact on the environment during the operations of the OSB, the pressure on traffic density, the construction of the area where it was established, and how the plans for development and publicisation were made, as well as the debates that were not carried out during the OSB's establishment, were not carried out during the meeting of the OSB. With Rant's understanding ahead of human health, the northern region, the only one the county breathes in, will be closed down with new OSBs, particularly the mentioned Charcoalists, and the people of Dilova will be trapped in an industrial circle. Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment, mentioned in Article 56 of the Constitution. It is the duty of the state and citizens to maintain environmental health and to prevent environmental pollution. In light of the declaration, it has been proposed to open a Parliamental inquiry on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine what measures are being taken to resolve the problems mentioned in the research report for Dilovaş in 2006 and to clarify the issues mentioned above. 1) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Antalya]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] (x) (10/588) The original Parliamentary Research Investigation is included in the full text of the Charter. 7) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Adana]] [[Niğde]] [[Manisa]] [[Edirne]] 16) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 20) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 26) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] 28) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, a parliamentary investigation into the problems of the agricultural sector that have been negatively affected by heavy winter conditions. 14.02.2012 1) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] 2) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Edirne]] 5) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Malatya]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 11) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 12) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Edirne]] [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] 18) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] [[Aydın]] 23) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Erzincan]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] 38) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] In recent years, climate conditions have also been affected by global warming, such as droughts or extreme colds. Heavy winter conditions that have affected our country this year have caused major losses in the agricultural sector, and they have seen flower, olive, and age fruit and vegetable producers who have done the most damage. In winter, the narrowing age of vegetables and fruit industry is going through a more difficult period due to heavy conditions. Turkey produces about 50 million tonnes of vegetables and fruit annually, while about one-quarter of it is broken before it reaches its consumer. Due to negative weather conditions this year, production has dropped between 30 and 40 per cent in the last month. Over the past month, the prices of greenhouse production have doubled, and green beans have been raised from $4 to $7 to the top and have become a raise champion. The price of peppers is 4, and the price of lettuce is up to $3. Due to a sudden price increase, exporters are also directed to the domestic market, and it is estimated there may be a 10% drop in export numbers. Olives and olive oil, which are of great importance to Turkey, are also affected by heavy winter conditions. Due to the cold weather, heavy leaf casts, shell cracks, damage in fresh exiles, and long-term frosting cases have resulted in thick branch deaths in areas. Because of storms, floods and colds in the western and southern regions, the greenhouses suffered major damage, and the only source of livelihood, our citizens were shot from the cannery. The sector is even more difficult with the heating costs of greenhouses that can survive heavy winter conditions. The agricultural sector, which costs a lot of gas, fertilizer, drugs, input, has an abnormally high cost, as well as weather conditions outside of seasonal norms. In addition, the demand for fruit and vegetables has been reduced due to the economic distress of Europe, and the conditions for competing with rival countries in the European market have also been difficult under the current conditions. The competition with the southern hemisphere countries, such as South Africa, Spain, France, Italy, Greece, Morocco, Egypt, and the more moderate northern hemisphere countries and Central American countries are becoming increasingly difficult because of climate conditions. Under these conditions, lowering the cost of fuel, fertilizer, medicine, and so on influxes used by the agricultural sector must be developed by agricultural insurance that will reduce or prevent negative weather conditions. In order to address these problems facing the agricultural sector, proposals for solutions are needed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine and immediately resolve the reasons for the use of neighbouring city airports instead of Şanlıurfa GAP Airport in especially fogy weather, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. 15.02.2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 8) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] [[Hatay]] [[Edirne]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] 16) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Bolu]] [[Mughle]] [[Let's go.]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] 23) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] 30) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] [[Malatya]] Şanlıurfa is a province in the southeastern Anatolia region, and is a border city bordered to the east by Mardin, Gaziantep to the west, Adıyaman to the north, and Diyarbakır to the northwest by Diyarbakır to the northwest, and Syria to the south. One of our country's largest projects, the Southeast Anatolia Project (GAP), is the centre of our fertile land. Şanlıurfa Airport, the gate to the region's civilian air transport, is strategically important. The existing potential of such a geopolitically important position is not well assessed. For a long time, there have been problems at the Glorious Gap Airport. In the last week of January 2012, power outages at Şanlıurfa GAP Airport have had a bad effect on people in the region and people who have visited or left the city, and the fact that such an important city has faced such a problem shows that the airport has not been shown enough importance. It is also important for security that airports, which should be a sign of civilization, face such problems. Glorious GAP Airport has become the feared dream of pilots. Pilots are having a difficult time with the fogy weather at the GAP airport, and are being delayed from the launch site or landing at the airport of a nearby province. This is a very dangerous situation for flight safety. The Device Landing System (ILS) is used to resolve these situations. The Applied Landing System (ILS) is a precision approach system that helps land planes through transmitters placed at the head of the runway. The ILS is a navigational auxiliary system that allows the plane to approach the runway with precision. It allows the cloud ceiling to approach the runway in low weather, with poor visual factors, and to land safely on the tarmac with electronic devices, giving the pilot directions and flight lines. Disruption of the ILS system at Şanlıurfa Airport and not being repaired for a long time threatens the safety of flights during these cold winter days. Likewise, passengers are victimized on this occasion. In order for public resources to be used this way, procedures must be made. For all these reasons, the importance of flight safety at the Shanghai GAP Airport is due to the lack of vehicles, especially in the misty weather lately, with respect to the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to determine and immediately resolve the use of neighbouring city airports instead of GAP Airport. Research motions have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. 17.04.2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 17/04/2013 Wednesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Institution. On March 9, 2012, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends gave 729 rows (729 rows no. lu) The parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate the problems that students face in universities, opposing, thinking differently and reacting democratically in Turkey has been suggested to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in presentations on Wednesday (17/04/2013) and held in the same date of talks. In favour of the motion, Mr. Fair Wolf, Al-Hakkari MP. Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0047par0494	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favor of the motion on behalf of our group. I salute you all. First of all, from the eternal colors of this geography, I sincerely wish to celebrate the Sor Day of the Yezidi, which is part of the culture of Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, and that this holiday will be a means of peace and brotherhood, and I would like to start speaking with those wishes. Today is the 20th anniversary of the death of former Mayor of Malatya Hamit Fendoglu, who died on 17 April 1978 with his grandson and daughter-in-law, who was sent to his house in a package, and who died with his daughter-in-law. I wanted to stress once again that both deaths were caused by deaths that left a mark on the specific periods of Turkey. After the massacre of Hamit Fendoğlu, Malatya's political fabric was interfered with, and Malatya's political fabric was actually altered, played, manipulated by Malatya's genetics. The death of Turgut Özal (Turgut Özal), left unsecured even today, also takes place on the history stage as a time of genetic manipulation of the political fabric of Turkey, the total change of the political fabric of a period; again, politics in Turkey. Therefore, these deaths, these massacres, these killings are not forgotten in Turkey, even if it is wanted to be forgotten. If the death of Turgut Ozal is still unclear today, then today, if prosecutors still feel the need to file indictments, there are strong doubts in Turkey that forensic reports are unrealistic, the Assembly must take a look at it and shed light on it. The massacre of Turgut Ozal (Turgut Özal) is the reason that his death was left unsolved in such a way that it could not be illuminated, thus keeping Turkey in the dark for a period of time. This, of course, is closely related to today's topic. These political murders are directly related to the motion we filed today. Hamit Fendoğlu's death is also related to the death of the deceased, Turgut Özal, and similar political killings. Students faced at 15 universities in Turkey today in the last month and a half, incidents took place, hundreds of students were taken into custody, police had to enter universities. This painting will have to be investigated by the Clave, and it will have to come down to its reasons. We don't have the chance to get through these days with just day-to-day speeches, calming or provocative statements. Yes, we've come across both soothing statements and provocative expressions these days. But the mix of universities in Turkey, the reintroducing of the climate of conflict in this period will make us all lose to the youth of Turkey, Turkey will lose to politics, Turkey will provide the basis for changing political genetics again, and will prepare. Therefore, it is not possible for the House to stand down and be indifferent to what is happening at the universities today. The House needs to focus on this immediately. The antidemocratic mentality, antidemocratic education, monotheistic mentality, which has been instilled in students from kindergarten to college, presents such a picture today. Let me make this very clear: we are all human beings who have flown through that climate. One way or another, we all bear the traces of that climate in our own mind. We all have traces of that separatist climate in our souls, in our minds. Therefore, these events that we face today at universities -- which we face in different parts of Turkey, mainly in western provinces -- are happening at 15 universities -- if these events are not prevented, if these events are not prevented, if we are watched face to face like this, we will all lose together. We won't just lose our youth, we won't just lose a generation; Turkey will lose as a whole. Turkey will allow its political tradition to be redesigned by others. Today, the brotherhood climate, the climate of peace climate, democratic solution climate that dominates Turkey as a whole should not be marred by provocative events that take place in universities like this, not allowed to be shaded. Today, we are in a new era of Turkey-based, Ankara-based, arguing and trying to solve their own problems. The success of this period, the success of this process, as a whole, will be the achievement of Turkey. No political party alone will win. As a whole, Turkey will win, but if we lose this period, it will not mean the loss of a political or two political parties again; it will mean the loss of Turkey as a whole. Therefore, the Council must seize the events of the universities immediately. Antidemocratic practices in universities must be terminated immediately. The right of students to carry out their rights freely without violating someone else's rights should be established. If we can create this atmosphere, if we can give people the right to express themselves freely, to exercise their right to protest, we can avoid problems at the university. But today we're looking at the interference, which is no different than yesterday, again the pressure, again the police, again the baton, again the violence. There was no solution, as there was no solution in the 1970s, as there was no solution in the 1980s, as there was no solution in the 1990s, but if you persist in the same practices today, it would not be a solution, it would have to go to the root, to the center of the problem. The antidemocratic mentality, antidemocratic curriculum, monotheistic mentality that we imbued children from the 1st grade, even from the main class, brings us to such a point. Look, just yesterday in Adana, let me share with you just one result from a high school survey. The students, 70 per cent of the high school students -- and I claim that's just because they were done in Adana, there's a chance that if you did the same survey in another province of Turkey -- that they would get similar results -- they would describe all of the non-Turkish identities as betrayal, they would describe them as dangerous and treacherous. Even this data alone is not the fault of that high school student, when a high school student sees differences as a threat and defines them as betrayal. That high school student is coming to college tomorrow. The same mentality will be moved to college. It's not their fault. The spread of this antidemocratic mentality isn't the fault of those children, it's the guilt of all of us, it's the sin of all of us. So, because we're not looking through this window, because we're looking through an antidemocratic window, because we can't get rid of the scars that the past has left in our brains, in our souls, we can't solve the problems that are taking place in our universities today. That's why we submitted the parliamentary inquiry motion. I hope that all parties will approach with sensitivity. I salute the House.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0048par0507	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. The second speaker against the motion is Vural Kakuncu, Kütahya MP. Mr. Cantaloupe, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0049par0511	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge against the BDP group proposal. Dear Regents, as it is known, there have been recent incidents at the University of Dicle that have occurred among opposing student groups, and sad events have continued to grow in ways that none of us would approve of. In fact, when you look at the core of things, the event that may only be a case, has been tried politically to retreat to different places, and a number of people have been trying to get into it. Dear Regents, the solution to darkness is light, the solution to ignorance is education. Our universities, along with their education and contributions to the region, are the guarantee of our future with enlightenment. Any violence in these areas is unacceptable. When you look at it, immediately afterwards -- no matter what the nature of the events -- many of the university's buildings have been destroyed, their labs destroyed, and they've become a war zone. Our society's reflexes are not yet fully past. Our memory is fresh. In the early 80s, we all know how they divided this nation, our students, our society, how they divide it, how they divide it, and how they hurt people. After September 12th, the face of the incident changed a little bit more, and all sorts of secular-antilational, diverse -- Alevi-Sunni -- sectisms and all sorts of such discriminations and social sensibilities began to become an environment of public conflict. The motion is based on Kurdish students' rights. What kind of terminology is that? Can a Kurdish student's rights, the right of a Turkish student, the right of a Bosniak student, the right of a Alevi, the right of a Sunni? Aren't we like five fingers on one hand? If any of these five fingers hurt or bleed, what is the other one to us, not my other finger? Such discrimination must now be avoided with absolute certainty. At this point, everyone has to take full responsibility. We politicians, I think, have been a little behind the citizens lately. We're in the field, with the support and maturity of citizens associated with this process, it's like they're ahead of us. We must surely listen to the voice of citizens from society. Our teaching members, intelligent people, should not give face to those who do all kinds of provocative things, and should give our young ones sufficient encouragement, to guide them. People who will be brothers to our young ones are among us. They shouldn't be trapped. No one should use these young men as pawns. Young people may have different ideas, world views, styles, lives, ways of expressing their lives. Of course, we must allow these young ones to speak, think, think. That's what democracy is all about. However, the need for democracy is that another person, another opinion, as in this case, tries to prevent a Happy Birth Week from even organizing its conference, and if they use violence against it, of course, it shouldn't be accepted. During this process, very important tasks are falling. Of course, we are aware that this process is going to be difficult. We'll certainly face many provocations where our nerves will be tested. The ground of terror is now destroyed. Non-discrimination policy is over. Our country is in a climate of peace; its response from society is also received. However, if there are still treacherous intentions to disrupt Turkey's peace process, we will not allow it, and no one can. We are children of a nation that has taken civilizations to three continents. History has given us this mission. There's no other solution, there's no other way out. We see, of course, that everything is transparent and that the necessary steps have been taken in Turkey as well. When we look at Dicle University, our university today has become an element of peace in the region. About 27,000 students, 4 universities of higher education, universities of applied sciences, conservatorys, and institutes of higher education are doing their best as a university. Scientific activity, along with its cultural activities, is organised by more than 700. This is a total of about 2,800 activities in four years. In almost every field, in art, in culture, in science, in social fields, in every field, the solutions to what society is interested in are done here. The International Kurdish Language Conference was held in March. The Cahit Sitkı Tarancı conferences, projects associated with violence, disabled people in society, problems related to prisons, and meetings with a number of leading values of society have helped to integrate with the public. Just yesterday, about 2,000 people from the city attended Nihat Hatipoğlu's conference, and the halls were filled, and they did not. The International Sezai Karakoc Symposium continued for three days with the public's direct participation. Public health screenings, again, regular visits to school and some social studies of students from the National Ministry of Education, continue quickly. Polls conducted in this sense are also essential to bringing solutions to the region's problems. In the next phase, we are confident that our students associated with these will also strive within the university to contribute to science, to our country, to our region. These provocations will surely go unrequited. We now want the sound of singing in our universities to rise, to retreat, and to become the areas where all sorts of ideas are freely expressed, spoken, discussed, discussed, but no one is ever going to be able to drive this country into a violent environment, as in the '80s, of course. Of course, our students have the right to engage, protest, express certain opinions, of course, but they can be done with the exception of the Constitution and non-laws. At this point, of course, we have great responsibilities in our young people's efforts to make the best of their energy, without making it a political runt, without making it into a political runt, without making it a political runt, as well as by politicians and some people as we used to. At this point, we condemn these acts of violence, hatred, to disrupt a peace environment that is generally dominated in our universities, and hopefully in the coming period, I salute all of you with love, wishing for the good times to come to our country.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0050par0524	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0050par0526	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0527	Mr. Orator has claimed that there has been a segregation in the basis of the research motion given by our group. I want to answer.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0050par0528	But isn't it normal to criticize?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0529	No, it's one thing to criticize, Mr. President, but it's one thing to accuse you of discrimination.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0050par0530	We don't have that kind of procedure, but, you know, he's going to criticize, you know, he's going to say it's against, he's going to say it's in favor, he's going to say it's in his favor.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0533	Thank you, Mr. President. We're not afraid of being criticized, and it's not because I want to respond, or because he's speaking against us. We have to respond because he finds the motion discrimination, which he accuses of discrimination. One fact in universities is that Kurdish students are under pressure, Kurdish students are expelled from universities because of Kurdish Kurds, Kurdish students are put in prison because of their Kurds. That's a fact, Mr. Orator should know that. I can give you samples if he needs them. In many universities, groups come face-to-face, conflict with each other. The attacker group is being detained and taken to police custody; a student who has been attacked is being taken into custody and sent to prison. There's only one reason, because they're Kurds.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0052par0536	Do you believe that? You don't believe that!
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0537	Second point, I'll tell you the second important thing, in colleges... look, if you edit a conversation based on a situation in one university, if you edit it through the University of Dicle, that's when you make the distinction. I've been talking about the events that have been going on here in 15 universities in a month and a half -- names are here, dates are here -- with them. I didn't mention the name of a single university, but if you insist and edited it through the University of Dicle, it would be discrimination if you just made it look like an incident at the University of Dicle, as if it were a case.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0053par0538	Don't spread it to all the universities.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0539	See, Dicle University is the latest event. There have been incidents at the University of Muğla, Hacettepe, Ankara Dil, History and Geography, Kayseri, universities in the Black Sea, all of them. You're being segregated. There's a reason the Kurds, especially the people of Diyarbakir... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...how can you express that our beloved Prophet could be in a position to be present at the events of the Happy Birth Week, the week of his birth?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0054par0542	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0543	How can you accuse a city of such a thing? On the contrary, Diyarbakir defended and claimed the most people. Where's the most glorious possession on that holy week? It was carried out by the people of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0054par0544	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0051par0545	But if you approach the people of Diyarbakir again with an effort to guide them back, know that the people of Diyarbakir will guide you to the right path.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0054par0546	Thank you. Third speaker on the motion, in favor of Mr. Free Special, Congressman of Manisa. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0055par0553	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In Turkey, I have taken a pledge in favour of the BDP Group's proposal for research on the problems that students face in universities, opposition, different-thinking and democratic responses. First of all, today is the anniversary of the death of Dr. Ersin Arslan. Last year, at the hospital where he worked, we honor our colleague, who had been brutally murdered in Gaziantep, once again. We call him God rest his soul. Last year, Dr. Ersin Arslan found that with his death, violence against physicians in Turkey, especially Parliament, violence against health workers was a reality. With the death of Dr. Ersin Arslan, Parliament has decided to investigate violence against the physician. Today, we're dealing with a proposal for a research commission. Until Ersin Arslan was killed last year, 11 motions to investigate violence against the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties had been rejected by the ruling party's votes, but when Ersin Arslan's blood painted his white shirt, the point of violence against the physician was revealed once again that day, the ruling party offered to establish a research commission and contributed to that commission that day, and began working with all the opposition parties. We've also seen in their meetings that the issue, whether it's power or opposition, is important, and the measures that haven't been taken so far, do not back down from voicing shortcomings. Well, then, you have to accept a logic. And here today, a political party wants to bring up the restrictions on using the democratic rights of students at the university, the disciplinary sentences against them, the extreme violence against them, even a little -- the arrests, the incredible disciplinary investigations that ended their studies, and everybody knows that in colleges, little by little, blood pressure is rising. In comparisons over the past decade, this parliamentary platform has been widely used by ruling party lawmakers, but as violence to physicians has increased astronomically since the last decade; in the same way, ten years ago, when terrorist incidents in Turkey have reached an unbearable extent from zero point of terror; in the same way, the conflict between students at universities, violence at universities, the cry from universities is increasing in an incredible geometric, logarithmic way compared to ten years ago. Recently, the mothers and fathers of students studying at universities in Turkey have their hearts back in their mouths. We went through this a few months ago in ODTÜ, and recently we lived at the University of Dicle. The most appropriate step the ruling party has to take in this matter is to support this research commission here today. When you support this research commission, we will sit around a round table, the president will be yours again, and we will discuss it again, in a commission where you will have the majority and you will be formed according to the Civil Code provisions. Now, there's ten minutes. Mr. Hodja came out, said something; opposition parties are expressing their distress. Now it's not a problem to cover the ears. It's not really an acceptable approach. On the anniversary of Ersin Arslan's death anniversary, I'm telling you that if a university enters into each other tomorrow, you will try to read and read a proposal if you have time; if there is no time, you will try to get an agenda from the Republican People's Party, the People's Party, the People's Movement Party, the People's Movement Party, to learn from that side, whatever it may be from that side. Come, do it this day, and it will be mighty if you do it this day. When that day comes, when the university gets involved, when the students get hurt -- God forbid, I'm afraid to express -- it's not brave to fill the margins of the nation's motion with signatures. If you're going to do the right thing, do it today. Get out to Parliament. We support the opposition's motion to investigate this matter. Well, then we'll applaud you, but otherwise, don't come in a few months from now, and don't listen to a cry in college these days when Thursday's arrival is on Wednesday, and don't talk on that day. The Republican People's Party has a commission on that too. Mr. Veli Ağbaba, Hüseyin Aygün, Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu, Melda Onur and myself are investigating the problems of students at the university. I regret to inform you that the intersect of our commission is at the same time the three MPs are on the prison commission. The reason is that if you're going to investigate the problems of students, you have no choice but to go to prisons, because when universities are an environment where science, academy, free thinking, the absorption of universal values, we are at universities, where we can't argue about the science, the freedom of a university student, the discussion environment, the learning, the learning of oneself, the free discussion of opposing ideas, the free combat, the energy of that conflict, the energy that is necessary for him to experience the process of rawness, the maturity, unfortunately, we can't argue about that. Because in Turkey, universities are practically where students are terrorized by the ruling party. The ruling party said, Mr. Hodja, that it is only a place for students at the university to pull their hair off the indictment -- the political rope from the indictment -- for carrying an umbrella, for selling a concert ticket, for criticizing the university administration, for protesting book reading days, for making book exchanges, for building missiles -- for building missiles, for building missiles -- is the place for pulling horses. Let the students have a ball at the university, says Hajji. From time to time, the Prime Minister used to speak with different names. This council bench is a place to address the public, this council chair is a place to address problems from here, but, Mr. Hodja, this seat is not the seat of wishes and wishes from the Prime Minister, so you must use your party's internal organizations. If you say colleges should be free. If you say university students should not be treated like terrorists. You say that universities should be a place where education, education, research, ideas conflict, and a production emerge from there. If you say, let art be a place. If you say, Teacher, let the Turks be told. If you say, let this be so, you should tell Mr. Prime Minister to withdraw. Mr. Prime Minister says, "When we speak of the late Tenzile Ana, we cherish: my mother looked at the head of the neighborhood in the dark of the night and waited for me. I used to come home with my friends, with our slogans on the walls, slow and tired. I can't forget that image. I don't know what it said on those walls, you have to accept the Prime Minister's statement correctly. In a place where we accept these statements correctly, we have nothing to say to the Prime Minister, if he is being subjected to today's persecution. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0056par0569	Thank you, Mr. Special. The last speaker on the motion is Eskişehir MP Salih Husband, who is about to be charged against him. Mr. Husband, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0057par0573	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, at the beginning of my words, I wish Kutlu Birth Week would bring blessings to the entire Islamic world. I also commemorate our 8th President, Turgut Ozal, in the 20th year of his death. In the interest of creating a more democratic, freer environment for both our universities and Turkey, the EC PARTY has been fighting since it was founded, and the EC PARTI wants a free Turkey. In this regard, the 312th amendments to the Anti-Terror Law, particularly the 301st Article of the Turkish Penal Code, have been removed from the state of emergency. Again, changes have been made in the laws regarding meeting and demonstration march to be based on a more democratic basis, and human rights have been sought to be raised to a higher level. During this period, there were AK PARTY authorities that set record shares in education, raised scholarships from 45 lira to $280, established a university with each of them, allowing our students to benefit from dorm services at a five-star hotel comfort. The AK PARTY, with its educational policies, has allowed all of our citizens to read from the elderly to the young. No one can come up with ideas at our universities by throwing stones, burning them with Molotov cocktails, starting stone sticks, and politically, they can't profit from it. In this sense, our government does all the necessary work and improvements to make our universities world brands as educational institutions. The EC PARTY does not deal with identity, personality, race, clothing, and clothing; it wants a more democratic Turkey, a more democratic university. With these feelings, I say we are against the BDP's research motion, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0058par0581	Thank you, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0059par0582	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit01spe0058par0583	Now, I'm going to put the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0058par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Peace and Democracy Party's 19th Amendment proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (17/04/2013) there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Yours truly. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is 10/171 and 10/460, in the section of General Assembly Review and Parliament Review, and 10/460, and I propose that the meeting of the press employees be held in today's session read in the General Assembly on 17/04/2013 on Wednesday (now) to improve the working conditions and to ensure press freedom, and to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the issues of local media companies and their employees in Turkey. The first speaker, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, is in favor of the National Movement Party Group's proposal. Mr Turkkan... no. In favour of the second speaker, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0060par0020	Mr. President, I'd like to speak on behalf of my group on behalf of the National Movement Party Group about the press employees and the research proposal for the problems of the local press. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, have you ever been without bread, not taking labor home? We've got a lot of friends who don't get home from national media or local media. One day, at five o'clock in the evening, you won't be able to work tomorrow, you've been terminated. Have you ever met him? But whether it's national media or local media, don't come to work tomorrow morning. We have a lot of brothers and sisters. It's a place where human honor and pen are easily wasted, local press and national press. Dear friends, our friends in the Parliament, our friends in Congress, look who's been here 11 years -- who's passed by, a lot of people have come, if they've always stood with honor and dignity, many of them have gone. Of course, the Turkish press has very honorable pens, but the honorable pens are always picked one by one, my friends. Once again, I'll give you tomorrow... maybe today they'll protect you... those unprofitable pens... but tomorrow the same pens will trouble you, too. They always ride on someone's horse, they always try to ride on someone's back, that's how they live, to us today, to you tomorrow. Tomorrow, the same pens will turn upside down on you, and they'll write backwards because they're pointy friends with both ends of their pens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, especially here, I'd like to say a few words about the local press. Dear friends, the local press in Anatolia is governed by a law from the 1930s, which only lives by ads, tries to provide their lives with ads, pays their employees, the mirror of the local press, local newspapers, but unfortunately, I underlined the Press Agency. As long as the Media Agency law does not come, the local newspapers will shut down one by one or surrender to someone, friends, if Turkey is not released to local media on the conditions of today's life as long as it does not speak the truth about the local press. The local newspaper is very important media, but a local newspaper with no income is always forced through life. The Press Agency isn't giving enough support. The Press Ads Agency does not organise enough ads in Turkey's advertising sector. After 2002, there was a law here on a date. At 2:00 a.m., we and our sensitive friends on that day, especially in the local area, asked for two local newspapers, and all the groups agreed -- we were two groups at the time. As a matter of fact, if local newspapers are able to live a little bit today, they live on a clause that was put in the Public Contraction Act that came out that day. Guys, we really need to change the Press Agency Act. It's a new trend, it's an ad, it's an ad, it's an ad, it's an ad for a year. Guys, don't you think the price of a product changes? Don't you think the summer price or winter price of a product changes? With an ad issued a year ago, somehow, if you provide the need, local newspapers are somehow being eliminated. My dear friends, even though the Press Agency Act came to the House, whatever wisdom, whoever took it, whoever took it, the Press Agency Act was removed from the House. As long as the Press Ads Agency's law doesn't come, the local newspapers will continue to drag until we truly consider today's terms of Turkey's tender conditions. No one has the right to drag local newspapers. We all have to own it because it's one of the real mirrors of society and democracy in local newspapers. Dear lawmakers, and we have local televisions. You know, some of this is terrestrial, some is satellite. Dear friends, local television broadcasters -- when the first television comes out -- have been providing very important services in their provinces for years. One way or another, it's either biased or neutral, but somehow it's a media group that's being heard in local television districts. There's a new trend now, a frequency tender has been launched in the provinces. There are seven of them each, along with the radios. But so far, the territorial televisions that have been serving, suffering the suffering of that province, have no jurisdiction, and they're being tendered. Friends, for ten years, these televisions had to have a right, a privilege, to have worked for 12 years and to deal with great challenges. But unfortunately, the new frequency tender, along with the radios, is somehow taking them out of the way, taking out people who have worked for years. Again, this should be the freedom of our local televisions to receive local ads. The ads are okay, but somehow they need to be tempted to advertise, guys. Again, there are websites in the local community that do Internet reporting, friends, in every county. My dear friends, I'm sorry to say that in Turkey, the most stray, undisciplined, most easily, I stress that every person who comes in front of you, every single one of them, every single one of them, every single one of them who needs to frame someone else, most of these sites are very easy to build. There are very honorable sites, local sites with very large news portals, and I bow before them with respect. There's a news portal to a county that's been entered a hundred thousand times a day, and there's a news site, in terms of seriousness. But unfortunately, it's the easiest news sites set up by someone with an account, someone with a job, someone who wants to frame someone, someone who wants to make a deal, who wants to insult public officials, who wants to insult another political party, who has a stake in it. Friends, this must be disciplined. No one has the right to defame anyone, to play with their dignity. Shame on this government if the government can't discipline it! But he's walking away, no one's getting in his way. I say that here every year. No one has the right to play with my honor. Go to the court, prove yourself innocent. Then you don't invite that corrupt criminal to prove himself, you simply set him up, you insult him easily, you ask me for proof. It's an dishonor, to play with human dignity. In this respect, local media, local media, especially local Internet news networks, need to be disciplined, but while they're being processed, their income needs to be brought in somehow so that no one can look into their hands in order to live with dignity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0061par0036	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Now, the second speaker, Sebahat Tuncel, is the Istanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0062par0039	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath against you on the motion made by the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. Indeed, the issue of freedom of the press is a fundamental issue of Turkey. If the press isn't free in a country, in fact, democracy in that country is impossible to express that there is a real democracy. The Organization of Journalists Without Borders cited Turkey as the 154th place among the 179 countries in its Report on Freedom of the Press, which, as of 2012, brought it back six rows. From 2005 to today, Turkey has used the world's largest prison for journalists in this area. This, really, is a description that matches Turkey. It's not just in prison -- it's not about journalists being arrested and put in prison -- but the ones who are out there, they're actually doing self-control, self-control, what they're writing, what they're going to do with themselves, what they're going to do with themselves, what they're going to do with themselves, what they're going to do with themselves. He's either going to be a really brave journalist, write, criticize, be a reporter, risk being arrested as a result of this, or he's going to have to do an automotive or he's going to lose his job. This is the painting in Turkey. This painting needs to be changed, it's a serious problem. One of the foundations of this is the valuable lawmakers, especially in Turkey, which is the Anti-Terror Act. Because the existing Anti-Terror Law in Turkey is also at a point in the media area that restricts freedom in a very serious way, restricting freedom of the press. Because, especially the government, the AKP government, the ministers, these journalists are not all journalists; they are being tried from other cases. That's why they say that. Because he doesn't judge everyone because journalists, for example, are journalists, and he judges his journalism report as part of the fight against terrorism, such as Kurdish journalists in the political genocide case under the name "KCK." April 22nd, there's a TK case, a press case. More than 40 press workers are on trial, and when you look at them, they're not all being tried because they're press workers, they're being tried as the press department of ▪KCK. However, when you look at his indictments, his reports are on trial. I'd like to invite these indictments, especially the members of the ruling party here, to the TK case in İstanbul Çalayan, on April 22nd. When you see the trials there, we actually see once again what freedom of the press has become, so it's a very serious problem. Now, in Turkey, there is data published in February by the Solidarity platform with arrested Journalists. There are 70 journalists here with their names in prison. 70 journalists are currently in prison for journalistic activities. According to data from the International Committee for Protection of Journalists, this institution had previously expressed the number of arrested journalists in Turkey as 70. However, Turkey's objections are not on trial for journalism at work, they are on trial because of these. He stated that the last two-thirds of them are Kurds. Besides, there's a problem with being in the numbers, so if one person is in prison because of journalism, that's a problem. So the government's approach to lowering that number is not an approach that saves itself, it's a high number of 49. This has to go away somehow. Dear lawmakers, we've always expressed, in fact, from the founding of the republic to the present day, in some way, that power over the press is a pressure on the government. When the coup... look at Turkey, the most restricted processes of press freedom are the processes where antidemocratic practices are so intense, it's either coup processes, or it's times when such antidemocratic practices exist. At this time, the press is being eliminated in the first place. The Kurdish press is the most damaged press. There, their buildings were bombed, their journalists killed, arrested. For years, these have been seen as serious handicaps for Kurdish press. The opposition press is on the subject of...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0063par0046	And don't interrupt the press, and don't let the press interrupt the Turkish press, the Kurdish press.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0062par0047	We're not interrupting, the country itself is approaching. From that point of view, it's a serious problem. Dear lawmakers, when we come to this issue in the press area -- freedom of press, freedom of organization -- the issue of rights and freedoms of press workers, we face serious problems. So the press in Turkey, unfortunately, has been monopolized and is controlled by the bosses. So instead of expressing the public's source of information, healthy information, being honest, independent journalism or reporting, who's in favor of the boss, who's in favor of the main opposition, who's in favor of power, who's in favor of him... well, no one, of course, has a more public interest, so he's using his style, his language, in a way that's more public. Again, the main problem in the press is language, sexist language, hate speech. In fact, nationalist approaches are a very serious problem, too, so the media area should actually be considered as a whole. There's a lot of serious problems with that, too. On the one hand, there's this kind of pressure on press workers for freedom of the press, but it's also important for the language used by the press. Now, today, we see much better the impact of media, written press, visual media on society. When people watch this, society is shaped according to this. And I think it's important that the press stays away from the sexist language, the nationalist language, the language that produces hate speech, the responsibility here. In particular, the reproducing of this language daily causes serious problems. Another area, as I've just stated, is the rights and freedom of workers who work in the press field. In fact, the problem of organization in the media area is very much at stake. If the press workers want to organize, demand their rights and freedoms, if they're in a union struggle, the bosses are putting them right outside the door -- just like in other areas. He does not receive much of what is seen or his hard work. In particular, a lot of institutions have mobbing in them, or they're facing dismissals in a short period of time, against press workers. So if we're going to do an evaluation of the media field, a study, there's no way there's a research commission without looking into all this. It's important that we look into all of this and figure out how to find a solution in this area. Because that's what democracy is all about. If, in this country, even the press can't express freely, can't write freely, can't write, can't be arrested for writing or fired for writing, it's a matter of serious democracy getting hurt. I'd like to underline that once again. Dear MPs, of course, in Turkey, we have stated that there is serious pressure on writers in particular. I want to talk about Ayþe Berktay. In fact, Ayşe Berktay -- her name in law school is Ayşe Hadjirzaoğlu -- received the PEN award, but she is currently under arrest for the TK İstanbul main case. On April 30th, he will be awarded the award in the United States, but he will probably not be able to go, and the reason for his trial is, in fact, his activities in the BDP Women's Assembly. Now, if you ask the government, Ayşe Berktay is an employee of the BDP Women's Assembly, not known as a journalist or translator. Unfortunately, the BDP has been declared a terrorist in the fight against terrorism for working in the Women's Assembly, for defending the quota, for defending gender equality, for defending the democratic and peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem. I think it's important that he gets such an award for Turkey. I, once again, convey our greetings and love to our friends here at the prisons, to the imprisoned press workers in the person of Ayşe Berktay, to our fellow members of the BDP, and to our MPs in terms of the real democratisation of Turkey, the first thing we want to do is to highlight the issue of freedom of the press; it is the issue of democracy of Turkey. Mr. President, I really think that people in this country will have to write their true ideas, their opinions, according to the opinion that their boss likes, unless these pressure policies on the press have been eliminated, I think that the biggest evil is going to stand out as the worst evil for Turkey. This needs to be fixed as soon as possible. And in order for that to be fixed, all parties have to take charge, take responsibility. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, as we call it, think it's important that the press workers, especially the local workers, have their rights and freedoms, the working conditions, and the solutions be produced. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0064par0058	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Now, in your favor, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, the MP from Marseilles. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0065par0062	Mr. President, I have made a solemn promise to the esteemed MPs that local newspapers and press associations are not supported enough, and I salute your grand delegation. Before we get into it, I'd like to talk about something that's very common in social media today. Here, I'd like to ask the Justice and Development Party executives: What is your problem with Turkey? What is your business with the Republic? The matter of the Republic of Turkey, why does the word bother you so much? The last time the Governor of Bursa removed the declaration of the Republic of Turkey from its own sign. Are you trying to become Patagonia? Why do you feel uncomfortable with the Republic of Turkey? Why don't you stop the governors from interfering? Do you want to become an unidentified, destroyed society, so why don't you get your head around it? I would like to remind you that on January 2, 1961, the Constitution of the Editor-in-Chief of the Press Agency, the Law was issued in the Official Gazette No. 10702. I am here to present to you the right demands of local newspapers and press associations, especially of my district, the Association of Journalists. So, what do the journalists in Anatolia want? The law prepared and implemented according to the terms of that period, and we demand that the documents asked for to be made in accordance with the conditions of the day, as well, as long as there is no less than 5 per cent of the year's pure income of the General Assembly, as well as aid to the unions and associations of the journalists in Anatolia, according to the article. Because the Journalists' Association of Turkey in İstanbul, the Journalists' Association of Journalists and the Journalists' Association in Ankara and the Journalists' Association of İzmir in İzmir, at that time, by law and by regulations from then until now, they have recruited 5 per cent of the Press Declaration's decision as aid, but other associations that operate in Anatolia, such as the Association of Peoples of Kopeli, Ankara and İzmir have not been able to get any shares until 2012. As a result of the initiatives, the Association of Peoples' Journalists has reached the goal of not only three associations from the Press Agency, but of the communities in the provinces of Turkey's Press Ads Agency. But unfortunately, the General Assembly of the Press Advertisement is unable to distribute to the General Assembly on the basis that these three organisations are, of course, members, in the measure required or even in the light of right. In 2012, the Association of Journalists of Turkey received $122,000, while the Association of Journalists of Turkey received $750,000, its Association of Journalists received 570,000, and the Association of İzmir Journalists received $165,000. So if we say that we don't even need to say in front of the others, we don't have to exaggerate. Now, let's get to the point where there's trouble. Based on the Editor-in-Chief of the Press Agency, law and regulations and the decision of the General Assembly, he wants the list of names, address statements, and the contract of yellow press card photocopies and idea workers from members of the Anatolian Journalists Association. However, from the three organisations mentioned, they only want the number of members, and from others to address information. However, if they are asked for address information, journalists who belong to these organisations will be seen, even from Hosheli, and from other provinces. I mean, according to the address, there's no way these associations could get this much help if they were wanted, people. What does that tell us? This violates the Constitution's principle of equality. If the Constitution is treated in accordance with the principle of equality, it is not possible for these organisations to receive such a share. The immediate examination of this matter, followed by the fulfillment of the necessary legal arrangements, is urgent for other associations in Kopeeli and Anatolia. Local media in my area of Alexandria also expects to be supported more. However, faster, better, and more current news will be available. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made several demands on the grant of financial aid to the Journalists Association, which the Editor-in-Chief of the Press Advertisement has on March 4th 2013, and the board of directors has established the content and scope of these assistance, in accordance with decisions made in the General Assembly in order to remove any hesitation related to aid. The Press Agency has asked for documents to help the association because it is the only journalist's association in Kopeeli. Members of the association and members of the yellow press card are also required to sign a contract of employment on June 13, 1952, and on June 13, 1952, which does not have a yellow press card. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it was published in the 195 Law code of 1961 and in the Official Gazette 10702. Again, I would like to stress that the Article of the General Assembly of the Law, which was drafted and implemented according to the terms of that period, should be made in accordance with the conditions of the day for the documents requested to be provided to help the journalists' community in Anatolia and other local associations, provided there is no less than 5 per cent of the annual pure income of the school. While our country has no computer and internet access in 1961, there are now Internet access correspondence and all information and data of associations such as the Central Population Management System and Association Information System and the Association of Journalists in Anatolia are now available in the state's official information banks. So in the event of how many members are in the association and the MERNIS system is being used, the findings of the members can be seen immediately at what address they live at. The website of the Prime Minister's Press and Information General Directorate also shows how many yellow press cards and continuous yellow press cards are found in the district. Again, contracts are required for members without yellow press cards and for those who are intellectual workers according to the Law, which took effect on 13 June 1952. However, all of these contracts are requested from newspapers which have the right to receive official ads by the Editor-in-Chief of the Press Agency each year. I mean, these documents are also available at the Press Agency. It is also against the law to ask the association for employment agreements because employment agreements are between the person and his employer. If the contract of employment can be passed, there will also be a blow to business peace in the cities. It is contrary to the reality of life, especially at a time when some journalists today are talking about forcing their employees to pay their wages, and even when they receive bank cards back from their employees. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to finish with a reminder. The principle of equality of the Constitution is very clear. According to Article 10 of the Constitution, everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion, sects and so on. No person, family, group, or class can be granted privileges. State bodies and administrative authorities must act in accordance with the principle of equality in all their transactions in accordance with the principle of equality. I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0066par0076	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. The last speaker on the proposal, Mr. Ilhan İnikkaya, as opposed to him. Mr. Indiankaya, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0067par0080	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group to express our views on the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine the issues of Kütahya MP Alim Im and 19 MPs, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by local media organizations and their employees. I salute you all. Mr. President, at the beginning of the research proposal, our first speaker friend said: "The newspapers are starting to close one by one. I think we should first look at the state of the local newspapers, regional newspapers and televisions in Turkey and talk after that. In this context, there are 91 regional newspapers in Turkey, locally 2.618 newspapers, according to the latest information of the Press Publishing Information. Again, there are 15 TVs, regional, local 200, not counting nationals. There's 38 radio stations, 922 locals. Again, the magazine is section 259, locals have 1,377. And I don't count the TVs that broadcast from the satellite. Counting them, there's 193 TVs and 62 radios. So there are a lot of newspapers and televisions in our country during our time in power, especially because we've opened the way for this freedom of the press and opened the way for the press. What's that supposed to mean? This, my friends, is a sign of pluralism. To defend basic rights and freedoms, to defend people's rights and freedoms, and to control democracy is a very important thing to run on track. When we look at democracy and media relations, pluralism is very important here. The only thing that can handle custody of democracy is that the media is pluralist. So, as you can see here, we now have pluralism in our media. It also comes from technology, because in new technologies, creating media, building television, and building newspapers are not as expensive as they used to be; you can easily broadcast in the Internet. Of course, there's the dilemma of freedom and blackmail, as a friend of ours would say. We support freedom of the press to the full, but as our friends say, we never support using the press as a weapon, using the press as a means of blackmail. Not only are they the victims, but we are the victims. You're all seeing what's being said to the AK PARTY government, even to our Prime Minister, from public opinion. However, it is also the duty of the judiciary, and the judiciary will do what is necessary. As a matter of fact, we're going to court, and he's doing his due diligence. Here, of course, when you say that, when you say these reviews, you have to be very careful. The media shouldn't exploit freedom. At the end of the day, if the media commits a crime, they'll be punished, so let's just say that. Again, a brother referred to the frequency tender. And you know the frequency tender is being made these days; it started yesterday, it's nationally based, it's going to continue today. There were 13 applications in the nationals yesterday; you saw them on TV and in newspapers. This tender continues. What's the deal, fellas? And that's kind of the answer to the reviews that have just been made, because they haven't had a frequency tender in years, and I know that while I was on the Radio and Television Supreme Board, both local television and national television people felt like nomads. Please give us this frequency quickly so that we can broadcast properly, not feel like nomads, not feel like squatters. At work today, thank God, there's also that frequency tender, and there's not a lot of complaints in the locals or nationals, and you're watching it from the press. And when you look at the frequency tender in the nationals as of yesterday, there's no injustice to anyone or any of the supporters of power. So, we're seeing that all of the broadcasters are involved in this tender right now. Dear friends, our country's local media history has also been addressed by the motion. Really, we've had local media since the 1860s. Let's put it this way: in our country, both the local media and the media are immediately taken from Europe, and in other areas, we are taking it very quickly. So is the local media area. When you think about our newspapers in the early days, yes, but today, as I've just given you, it's a lot. And we think of that as pluralism, and we support local media members and their employees, and I'm going to talk about that a little bit later, but I want to talk about the Internet media here because we actually need to think about the Internet media in terms of both national and local media. The locals are now national because when you publish an Internet newspaper in the local area, you can watch it from all over the world in Turkey. Thus, individuals can now find as many places as they want to defend their basic rights and freedom or to tell them about their injustices, both in the Internet and in the other environment. But like a friend of ours said, you can't use these tools as weapons, amenna, and we accept that. From time to time, measures are also taken, laws, laws. Another issue: Internet media provides a cheaper publication, which is important in pluralism. Because it used to be: both newspapers and television -- in particular, it's a very expensive publishing organ -- there were certain monopolys because everyone couldn't get it out, and those monopolys could manipulate public opinion, but now they can do community engineering, and now everyone can say anything, and now we see that even parties that have a 0.01 percent vote can express themselves in the media. In fact, as we just said, it's so much that sometimes it can be found in words that insult the other person; it's a criticism, but on the other hand, I think it's a very important issue for everyone to take their opinions public. Again, social media is another factor. This plays an important role in conveying people's thoughts and ideas. Let's say that from here. In other words, friends, the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information does not support the press. No, the press is being given a lot of support, especially in our time of power, and they're being distributed as equally and according to certain criteria as possible. In fact, radio, television, local televisions, just like the local Press Agency gave the local press, please support us, because it's necessary for us to stand up. In fact, televisions are more expensive, so give it to us. So I think that's wrong, too. The Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information is among those benefits, which means that financial support also sees press card transactions, distributes traffic cards and processes related to them. He's doing the gray passport transactions for our journalists. Again, local media organises training seminars. It also states in the research proposal that because of the shortage of grown-ups, he provides various educations in the provinces, local-based areas to address it. I think that's a big deal. Again, the Press Agency also supports other local journalists and journalism. And I want to make this brief, because we're running out of time. One of them actually gives $4,200 to newspapers that actually work, giving interest-free loans. I think it's an important support. Again, for those who can't work, for those who are in need or disabled, they also support 4,000 liras a year for free. He's giving one-time support to the dead press. Again, he gives free support to media-related associations at around $10,000 a pop. Thus, as mentioned earlier, the Press Ads Agency does not support it. It tries to support it at its best, not at its best. Another issue, my friends: The journalists are broadcasting in your favor or against you today. Today he's doing it for you, but tomorrow he's against you. It's true for you too, so where there's pluralism, that's wrong. So it's very cheap and I think that having too much press would eliminate the rights of those remarks. So the fact that local journalism is so much in this sense, that it's pluralistic is also important for our democracy, but does it have some problems? That's right, there are, and we're trying to do whatever we can to solve them. As I've just said in the context of television, we've also solved the unrelenting, untributable frequency tender. At the end of my words, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0068par0096	Thank you, Mr. Indiankaya.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0069par0097	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0068par0098	Well, now, I'm going to put the National Movement Group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0069par0100	No, no, no.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0068par0101	Yes, there's a disagreement, we'll vote on the electronic device.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0070par0102	Mr. President, for God's sake! 2 AK PARTY members, is there a disagreement? No, you can't see!
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0068par0103	Why are you getting so excited? Just a second, Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0070par0104	For God's sake, how many men are there?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit02spe0068par0105	A friend of ours says we do. He says we don't have a friend. I vote with an electronic device. Why are you getting excited? Here you go, fellas. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0068par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of the National Movement Party's proposal, given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. There's enough to make a decision. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's 17/04/2013 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 29/03/2012 by Mersin MP Vakap Elçier and 27 lawmakers, it has been suggested that the Parliamentary Research Forum (327 rows), which was given to the Turkish Parliament by all aspects of its fat seed policy in order to determine the measures that must be taken, should be presented in the same joint joint session of its talks on Wednesday (17/04/2013). The first statement on the Republican People's Party Group proposal belongs to Mr. Vahab Elector. Mr. Chooser, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0071par0017	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. Ankara's political agenda is intense. The agenda is locked on to new constitutional studies, the judicial package, but life continues, and society has significant problems. Look, the other day, there was an air opposition in Mersin, my constituency, and there was heavy rain, and there was a flood. Because of the tornado, there was significant damage to Anamur, Bozyazı, Aydıncık, especially the banana greenhouses. Again, just after that, there was a hailstorm in the Silifke region, in the Erdemli region, in the centre of Mersin, and significant damage to orchards and vegetable gardens. In the past few months, the same area was also affected by heavy rains, and the manufacturer was again damaged. The agricultural production is already having major problems, the manufacturer's not getting together on both sides, and when such disasters are added to it, it's double fried, and the farmer's dead, God bless him! Due to recent disasters in our area, authorities have been going to relevant institutions to assess the damage. Of course, the manufacturer is waiting with a thousand hopes. Damage detected. There will be assessments of this, and due to the damage that has been done, the state will be able to help us with some of our problems, so it will be an ointment in our wound. But the complaints we've received are knee-deep. In fact, immediately after the disaster, government officials or institutional authorities have made statements: "We have gone, we have done damage assessment. " I hope, after this disaster, especially the ruling lawmakers will lead it, speed up damage detection in the region, and make sure that at least some of our producers' losses, some of their losses, are paid by the state. My dear friends, the GMO debate has recently been released to the press, and it's been widely published. My fellow lawmakers who served during the previous Parliament know that in 2010, this Parliament passed the Biosafety Act. A law on genetically modified organisms and their products was discussed and adopted in this Parliament. Up until then, importers of GMO products had been able to smuggle them through Turkish customs and market them freely in the country. And by that time in Turkey, really, we were feeding GMO products to our people without any control. But after that law was passed, it seemed to be under discipline at least a little bit. However, recently, reports from the press on April 4th suggest that 23,000 tonnes of tripe in Mersin Harbor are being analyzed and identified as GMO. Of course, according to the results from Istanbul Technical University and TÜBITAK labs, the results came from the reports. However, Mr. Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, made a statement that there is no rice to trade in the world, so it is not possible to have GMOs in them. Immediately after, Minister of Customs and Trade Mr. Printer made a statement: "Yes, we have studied, we have received information that some border crossings, such as Tekirdağ, are actually importing GDO rice. " The two of them were conflicting, different explanations. In fact, Mr. Printer went a little further and got a little carried away, and he said: "I don't consume rice, I consume bulwark. My dear friends, the GMO issue is not a matter of humor, irony, it's a matter of the health of 75 million people. Look, is there GMO food in Turkey or not? I'm claiming that Mr. Secretary can't answer that. Turkey does not have enough arredity labs in that sense. Still from the borders of Turkey -- according to the Bio Security Act -- I claim, from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, GMO products enter, and market shelves are consumed as food. Now, Mr. Secretary says that if such a matter is involved, it is not GMO, it is not GMO, it is not from transports or from ships coming from abroad, so it is the transport vehicle that has already carried GMO products, and then it has been loaded with rice, and it claims that a result of the dishes is GMO. Now, those who have made this claim say: "There is no threshold value in Turkey as to how many GMO-based products are going to enter the home." The Ministry has to determine that, but the Ministry is watching, and the Ministry is watching, and they are not taking any precautions. Now, my dear friends, this is an important issue, this is a matter of public health, and the relevant institution, the relevant ministry, must make a satisfying statement. My dear friends, the subject of our research proposal is Turkey's problems with oil seed imports, the research of these problems, and the way to resolve these issues. My dear friends, Turkey is paying a substantial amount of money for fat seeds and its derivatives. The figures for 2011: the oily seeds that we've imported financially, and its derivatives are $3.1 billion. The 2012 figures: We pay $3.7 billion for fatty seeds and derivatives, importing. Look, one of Turkey's most important economic problems is the current issue. Turkey broke a current record in 2011, we had a 77 billion-dollar deficit. We're in the top five in the world lineup, and we're out in the open. Despite measures, despite economic measures, we were able to draw the current deficit to a point around $50 billion in 2012. Turkey's most important import pens are oil and products, followed by oil seeds and derivatives. In this sense, Turkey needs to apply its stability, sustainable agricultural policies, and make progress in producing fatty seeds, making progress. Look, 2002-2012, I want to make some comparisons: Turkey was imported in 2002 with 2 million tons of fatty seeds and derivatives, while it reached 5.3 million tons in 2012. As I just said, the monetary value of this 5.3 million tons was $3.7 billion. Also, Turkey has imported 613,000 tonnes of soybeans in 2002, while Turkey imports 1,1 million tons of soybeans today. It imports 750 thousand tons of sunflower seeds. Again, the cocoon, an important product of oil and oil, is imported 150,000 tons. Of course, removing them will not only reduce the current deficit, but also contribute to Turkey's economy, which will allow us to eliminate such large imports. And in that sense, we think it's necessary for a research commission to investigate these issues. I think the High Council will support this matter, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0072par0030	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Mr. Yunus Kılıç, MP of Kars against the second speaker. Mr. Sword, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0073par0034	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge against Mr. Vahab Elector and his friends' motion to investigate the oil seed policy in Turkey. I salute your high council. Of course, Mr. Chosener, I have your word against you, but I will not deny your findings. First of all, we'll agree to all of this, but I've been promised to express our differences at the point of origin. Now, to get back to the bottom of it, actually, respected lawmakers today, 1 billion of the 7 billion people living in the world live below the poverty line, and about 2.5 billion people face the danger of starvation at any moment, unfortunately. Every year around 12 million people die of starvation and malnutrition. These are the facts of our world right now, and unfortunately, most of our energy needs are now being created from agricultural products, grains, fat seeds. In the 1960s, those who made the revolution in agriculture, the Green Revolution, yes, one day those who held agriculture, food, will take over all mankind and lead it on the charge. Yes, while this struggle has escalated so much in the world, with the number of people and populations increasing so much, as hunger and misery endure, while injustice in sharing is increasing and demand for sustainable food, I think it's in the country's best interest to act on a fact as well. What's that? When Turkey is a country that can produce enough food, enough food for at least 160 million people, because of its soil and climate properties -- yes, you're right -- it's the kind of research proposal -- then why can't we produce what we need, why can't we make enough, and why can't we go back in our production, and why can't we think about it, to contribute more to the needs of our country's people and the needs of the world? However, respected lawmakers, production in one country in agricultural and other areas may also increase, decrease or change in the way people and communities develop, their processes. Now, I'd like to first look at how this process happened in Turkey in terms of fatty seeds. Of course, when we chat here, when we give answers, you know, we usually evaluate the process from 2002 to 2013. Of course, we're actually pleased to see that you've considered it that way in your motion. Why? Because the men, the people who do, the people who control the system, must be criticized, judged or judged in their own time; this is the truth. So, based on these times, I'd like to make some contributions, some answers to your assessments. Yes, in 2002, our oil seed production field grew from 6.5 million acres to 7.5 million in 2012. There's not really a reduction, you know, even more imports. So, if we're increasing our production field, and we're producing an oily seed that's 2.5 million tons on one side, and we're importing 3.2 million tons on the other, we need to look for something else here. What is it? The answer, friends, is this: Turkey is exporting $4 billion in agricultural exports in 2002, while Turkey is currently exporting $17 billion, 17.5 billion in agricultural exports, so that's the difference. So Turkey is no longer just a country that consumes its own creation; Turkey is a country that takes what is on the planet, produces it to create higher added values in itself, and markets it to the world and contributes to the welfare level of humanity. The answer to that is actually here. This is actually 25 per cent of our production, 26 per cent of our production, friends, increase in efficiency from 2002 to 2012. But I repeat, there is an increase from 800,000 tons to 2 million tons in our imports. What's with the 3 billion? Yeah, that's the right $3 billion figure. But what's in it? It contains oily seeds, seed imports, raw oil, margarine imports, and the imports of pastries are in there. So you also know that in agriculture and livestock, Turkey is not yet a country that can fully meet the necessary quality of brute bait. And we're importing some of that in terms of change and cotton seeds and linseed seeds and moon cores and so we're importing some of that in large proportions from abroad, so this $3 billion is actually a total number of these. In 2002, how much was our export? There was, it was $2 billion. It wasn't little, so when our agricultural production was $23 billion, our import was $2 billion, our agricultural production went up to $63 billion, and that only increased by 50 percent. So as our agricultural production triples, our imports, my friends, have only increased by half. Now, so, what's going on? With all these facts out in the open, how is Turkey doing as the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and the government while we still need fatty seeds? Dear friends, first of all, it supports agriculture a lot more than it used to, especially in the basin-based area, which determines which products can be produced in a profitable way, at which time it pays to make difference, agricultural support, and especially for the farmers' problems, the cost shortages, which are caused by input. What's all this? For example, he's paying 24 cents a pound for sunflowers for 2013; he's supporting 50 cents a pound, 50 cents a soy, 50 cents a canola, 45 cents an aspirin and olive oil, 60 cents a kilogram of olive oil.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0074par0041	Olive oil is five and a half, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0073par0042	In addition, the basin-based production models continue to provide additional support for those who are determined in those areas and produce high-income products.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0074par0043	If only you'd told us about the pistachio, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0073par0044	I don't want to give these numbers one by one because I'm actually giving them a total. But I would especially like to say, friends, that except for a slight reduction in cotton, except for a little bit of fat seed plants -- all of them have a 25 percent, 30 percent serious production increase. Well, why can't we meet our needs when our productions are growing like this? Because there is a problem: Turkey's population is increasing, tourists are increasing; our prosperity is increasing, our consumption is increasing, Turkey's exports are especially based on agriculture. When you think about all this, we still need to produce more. Moreover, look, there's a problem waiting for us, and maybe you didn't predict it; we're going to have to face a problem that you didn't see in your proposal, and I'll tell you from here: you know, these products will also be used, especially as energy raw materials, so agriculture in the world is going to be used in an even more violent way in the energy sector. So we all agree that in the future we should reconsider our agricultural policies, our fatty seed policies, and all of that, right, but what we've found now is that our fat seed production is not reduced between 2002 and 2013, it's been increased by close to 30 percent, it's been established, but it's still in no condition to meet our growing needs. That's right, Turkey is a country with a current deficit, it has the potential to produce in agriculture, and if it's not: what do you say we don't have land, the climate isn't right, we can't produce it. But Turkey has that potential, it's absolutely necessary to activate that potential. Other than that, what should be done? In particular, the General Directorate of Agriculture Reform, in what areas of agricultural research are the institutions doing serious work on which products will grow better in Turkey and meet our needs? And to that end, our government and our Department of Agriculture are giving serious support, increasing the amount of support they receive every day. Is that enough? Look, we're not claiming it, guys. Yes, Turkey is still a country open to international price fluctuations, a country that is very affected by the global economy. Somewhere in the world, if a product is produced cheaper, there is serious support to protect the Turkish farmer from it. Customs walls, with the customs walls that the world, in some way, insists on us today, tells us to remove them, we continue to give our own farmer, our manufacturer, indirect support of agriculture, friends. Besides... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to talk more about it, but I hope you have your next research proposal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0075par0050	Thank you, Mr. Sword. The third speaker on the proposal is Tekirdağ MP Bulent Belen, who is on his side. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0076par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's People's Party's National Movement Group to bring up the motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the problems caused by the Republican People's Party's import of fatty seeds and oil seeds. I salute you, your delegation, and the saintly Turkish nation who watches over us on television. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have failed to carry out a real policy so far to reduce the import of oil seeds, which is the third sector our country has paid most in imports, and the AKP governments have not been able to increase production to the desired level because the support of AKP governments at the point of our farmers planting oily plants has not been sufficient. The support policies launched during the 57th government, where the National Movement Party is also a coalition partner, have been troubled by the fact that it has not been made in accordance with the conditions of the day and has not been increased by the following AKP governments, and as a result, there has not been a palpable increase in the areas where fat plants have been planted. According to data from the Plantal Oil Industry Association, the view of the import of fatty seeds from 2002 to the end of 2011 is this: Turkey imported 613,000 tonnes of soybeans in 2002, while importing 1,28,000 tonnes of soybeans in 2002 to be evaluated in plant oil production. In 2002, Turkey imported only a thousand tons of canola seeds and imported 122,000 tonnes in 2011. The import of sunflower seeds increased from 129,000 tonnes in 2002 to 11,000 tons in 2011. Turkey's imports of fatty seeds totaled 798 thousand tons in 2002, reaching 2 million 331,000 tonnes in 2011, increasing imports more than 3 floors. Turkey is not only importing oil seeds for herbal oil production, it has raw oil imports. In 2002, the import of 707,000 tonnes of crude oil reached 1,33,000 tonnes in 2011. The details of raw oil imports have increased from 93,000 tons to 470,000 tons in sunflowers. In view of these increases in quantity, AKP's agricultural policy since 2002 shows that its supports are not enough to increase the production of fatty seeds. The policy has fueled imports and supported other country producers. It's much worse when you look at it in terms of value. Turkey paid $2223m in oil seed imports in 2002, while in 2011 it paid $1 billion 358m. The crude oil import paid $340 million in 2002, while last year $1 billion was paid $338 million. In 2002, the amount of foreign currency paid for the imports increased from 88 million dollars to 406 million dollars today. The oily seeds and derivatives were paid $650 million in 2002, while they were paid $3 billion 102 million in 2011. In summation, the oily seed policy, which has been adopted as a product of 2002, has made Turkey more dependent, rather than freeing it from external dependency. This is a sign of the bankruptcy of the oil seed policy. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, who have been in power for 11 years, have, as in every sector, supported the Rants in the agriculture sector, have been stingy in supporting those who actually work as farmers, the Turkish farmer. Governments didn't interfere with the fertilizer prices that doubled when it was time to use fertilizer, and diesel prices went up from 2002 to today. This has broken the back of our farmers' citizens. Instead of taking precautions to protect his own farmer in imports, he brought our farmer to an economic end by facilitating the imports, which led him to the economic end of the seven-year warehouses, where he owned a Turkish farmer, but by the executive agencies, the tractors and their equipment was filled, and the farms he farmed to provide for him were taken from him by the banks he used to borrow. The agricultural policies of the ten-year government of AKP governments have also troubled our producer in grain, livestock, dairy production and other areas, not only in fatty seeds. The government must review its policies as soon as possible and give its support for the importer to the Turkish farmer, the real producer. The AKP government supported imports of live animals and meat in 2010 by reducing customs taxes from 275 per cent to 30 per cent, giving huge support to importers. The government's support for imports by the end of 2012 has reached $3 billion. We would like the government to give this support to the real Turkish farmer, who is this producer, to the Turkish animal farmer, and to increase the number of animals in our country, and consumers to eat cheap meat. Mr. President, given the value of lawmakers, Turkey has a great potential for the production of fatty seed plants, given its climate and soil properties, but it has not been produced to meet the need for oil over the years. In 1991, a total of 7.4 million decares, the oily seed field reached only 7.7 million karms in 2011. An average of 519,000 tonnes of raw oil was produced in Turkey between 2002 and 2010 with the processing of native seeds. In Turkey, a continuous increase in the consumption of herbal oil is observed, both by rapid population growth and by increased consumption per capita. Even in the years when oily seeds increase in crop fields, there is not enough production to cover consumption, so an increasing number of plant oil productions are covered by imports. After years of reviewing the plant oil shortage in Turkey, it appears that in 2011 the oil shortage was 1.6 million tonnes, which increased by 88 per cent compared to 2002. About 70 per cent of Turkey's herbal fat has been met by import in the last decade's average. Turkey's imports amounted to 798 000 tonnes in fat seeds in 2002, while raw oil was 777,000 tonnes in tonnes, 2.3 million tonnes in 2011, and a total of $2.70 billion in foreign currency was paid for importing 1 million tonnes of raw oil. In Turkey, to reduce plant fat deficits and external dependence, the production of fatty seed plants must be increased, and the government must establish real policies in this regard. The government should raise its incentives to support revenue competition in favour of fatty seeds, with oily seed plants in the GAP production pattern in the first place. In the fields of Nadas and the alternative production project, the production of fatty seed plants should take effect, but in the ten-year period of your government's rule, unfortunately, the Turkish nation is not clear what it eats with the free imports, whether it's GMO or GMO-free, it feeds on undetermined foods. Other than that, unfortunately, it's not clear whether he's been eating meat in the media lately, meat consumption, detection, horse meat, donkey meat, or pork that your government has released and sold. You've finished our farmer, our farmer can't breathe. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to finish by reading the message from a farmer in Emirakup, Tekirdağ Province today. Our farmer citizen says, Mr. Deputy, that the Farm Bank is charging 2 percent of the tractor loan. He gets $500 mortgage money, $500 insurance, $350 life insurance. I thought inflation was one digit. He gets 2% commissions. This wishes you to end the gross commission taken by a bank of your government, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0077par0070	Mr. Belen, thank you. The last speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Mehmet Ölturk, Hatay MP. Mr. Önturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0078par0074	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Of course, before I begin my words, I'd like to begin with a blessing to remember our 8th President, Mr. Turgut Özal. The Republican People's Party's proposal says a significant increase in imports related to fatty seed plants. Yes, that's true, there's been a serious increase in imports, but I wanted to analyze whether there's been a decline in production, or if there's a problem in our fields, or whether our government is making short payments or reducing support. Dear friends, our production of soybeans, 75,000 tons in 2002, increased by 62 per cent in 2012 to 122,000 tons. Our production of canola increased from 1,500 tonnes to 110,000 tons in 2002, with a rise of 730 per cent. Again, our sunflower production rose from 850,000 tonnes to 1.370,000 tons, with a 61 per cent increase. So, what about our plantations? Today, the sunflower field, which is 550,000 hectares, has increased by 19 percent to 655,000 hectares. Again, our soy field has risen from 25,000 hectares to 26.421 hectares. Again, our colza field has risen from 550 hectares to 26.829 hectares, with an increase of 487 per cent. Well, let's look at the support figures you gave in 2002, and let's look at the support figures we gave in our day. Today, I'm saying to the sunflower as 5.2 cents in 2002 -- we've increased your support by 141 percent to 13.3 cents, so we've raised it to $240,000. Again, we've raised your support of 5.2 cents in cotton to 27.7 cents. I'm going to say that this is 6.1 in the soy -- we've raised it to 27.7 cents. We've raised the 5.5 cents in canola to 22.2 cents in support. So, what's up with the crop field and the growing production and the increasing support, and why is this import growing? Dear friends, this import is growing because of our exports, for the most important reason. Look, I'll give you our export numbers. Today, as the latest information I received from Customs Recipe is: our oil export, which was 82,500 tons in 2002 -- and the value was 90 million dollars -- we export 626,000 tons of oil today, and it's about $1 billion worth. So, the most important reason for this increase in imports is because of the processing and exporting of these fat seed plants that we import in exports. Again, the second reason that increases imports is because consumption habits change. In developing economies, people eat good oil and their consumption habits grow. Again, we have a growing population of 7 million from 2002 to today, which leads to increased imports in consumption. Again, oily seeds in energy are now being used at a significant rate. So, what are we supposed to do? We want to reduce imports, too. What should we do? First of all, we need to increase our watering areas. Hopefully, by the end of 2013, 65% of the total land will be irrigable, which is a very important development. Two dams will be opened in 2015, hopefully in Hatay. Again, we need to fast-track the Legacy Act and the collectiveization. These are very important issues for the future of agriculture. Again, in order for us to increase efficiency, we need to continue by increasing our support for seed-making, seed-makers. Dear friends, for all these reasons, I believe in Turkey -- because of the declines in commodity markets outside the country, we've seen some problems in agriculture -- that these will be much better in the coming process, and that we and our government will continue by increasing support, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0079par0086	Thank you, Mr. Önturk.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0080par0089	We want roll call, Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0079par0090	You're requesting roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Young, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Demirçlı, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Korutuk, Mr. Bayartutan. Now, we're gonna do a roll call with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes, start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the CHP group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and I'm going to put it to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 93rd anniversary and the celebration of National Sovereignty and Children's Day, a private meeting of the General Assembly for the significance and significance of the day is held on Tuesday (April 23rd 2013). The meeting was seen as appropriate during the talks during this meeting to be promised to the presidents of political party groups for ten minutes, and the failure to discuss other issues in this merger was presented to the General Assembly's approval at a meeting held Wednesday (17/4/2013). Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, under the Law Code of Laws and Laws Against Some Laws and Laws Against Laws Act of Mersin MP Ali Riza Özturk (; The Law on Law on Laws and Law on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws and Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws on Laws of Laws of Laws on Law, and Law on Law of Law on Law of Law on Law of Law on Law on Law, Wedivies, We shall we will then we shall submit the Law on the Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law and the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In the past session, talks were completed on the entire bill, which was considered the basic law according to the 91st Article of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 8th article. On behalf of the groups who want to speak on chapter one, Mehmet Erdogan is a member of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0081par0138	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the First chapter of the Law on Laws of Laws 444 and Changes in Some Laws. I salute your high council. First of all, before I begin my words, on the 20th anniversary of the death of our 8th President, Turgut Ozal, on the 20th anniversary of his death, I remember him with mercy and gratitude; may God have mercy on him. Article 1 of this law contains arrangements for the individual. Now, after the referendum held in 2010 at the Supreme Court, the majority is now in the hands of the ruling party's HSYK. Now, that's a very dangerous situation, of course. After these provisions made in the judiciary, people no longer have a place to go, judicial independence is being undermined. (x) 444 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 92nd Union's Charter, dated 16/4/2013. Now, in a circle, you're trying to ensure that you can't solve things that you can't. Now, the AKP has brought up continuous judicial packages since it came to power. However, according to public studies, the trust in justice in society is constantly diminishing. It's a matter of a lot of thinking, a lot of talking, a lot of hard work, because justice is the foundation of property. Here I have said so many times before the meeting of different laws; property is state; property is not property, property, property of individuals. For the state's survival, the most important job is justice. If a state's justice system is not healthy, if a state's justice system is not viable for everyone, if it's not a system that everyone trusts, it's not possible to keep the state alive, my friends. There's always justice. You shouldn't play with justice too much. Do not play with justice -- our advice to you -- because the day will come -- don't forget -- that justice will come to you one day, of course, and you will need it. Again, the 4th article of this law and the establishment of administrative courts. Now, that, of course, is against the natural judge's principle, a very harmful arrangement. With the provisions you have already added to the Privatisation Act, all affairs of the administration are subject to judicial control. You have made the decisions of the administrative judiciary subject to the control of the Council of Ministers in terms of privatisation. Now you have eliminated this very dangerous course - the false account will return from Baghdad - our proverb, our proverb. From now on, even if it's true, it's the opinion of the Council of Ministers that we can bring it where we want it to be. Again, you've made arrangements to neutralize administrative justice in terms of high-level appointments. In 2011, you took out the 35 laws and passed the rights of thousands of civil servants. I mean, there's some very interesting examples in there about the rights of these civil servants. They're still crawling through the gates of the courts. For example, a brother of ours who was an officer in the Ministry of Customs and Trade took the exam, won, became chief, won, won, won the vice principal's exam, won, became assistant manager's exam, won, won the principal's exam, became principal's assistant, took the assistant chief's exam, but was assigned to an investigative staff under the rule of law. I mean, the mindset that ignores these acquish rights needs to get in line. From now on, you'll settle this by setting up residency courts. All right, what about the rights of the people who've been wronged? Again, there are small-scale HESEs that hold an important place on our country's agenda. Most of these are controversial. My constituency will destroy the natural tissue that was planned on the town of Beyobasi, and destroy the beautiful nature there. This was halted by judgment, but similar to this, there are also HESEs in Fethiye that are planned on Charm tea, and on Ezen Tea, which will destroy historical and of course tissue. Now, the judgment is thorough, and it's done. You're going to set up a residency court against the natural judge's principle, appoint the judges you want, and then you're going to make the decisions you want. It's a very wrong, dangerous and irreparable process; this process must be completely reversible. Again, Article 6 of this law connects the promotion of judges and prosecutors to new procedures. In the new way, intermediary, peace and investigation activities are also included in the note system. This will lead judges to bring forth other activities in place of their judicial duties. The judge and prosecutors must be ensured that the promotion system is connected to more objective criteria. The most controversial issue of this law, of course, is the removal of Article 263 of the Penal Code. Since the AKP came to power, the punishment previously envisioned in this article has been reduced twice, and is now completely removed. Now it's good to look at this in a few ways. First, the Prime Minister talks about 36 ethnic groups all the time. Now, if everyone starts their own school after these 263 ups, you've also brought clothing freedoms in schools, and in the coming days, you've got smart people talking to everyone about freeing education in their own language. Now, this, of course, is going to start a very serious dissolution process in society. Isn't that parsing? Once you've started this sorting, how are you going to stop it, where is it, after you've provided this opportunity from everyone's elementary school-year-old kindergarten baby? The language, the clothing free; the decisions made by the Ministry of National Education, the Board of Education and Discipline; how are you going to create ethnic structures that can have educational institutions that can put into the program as they please, and then hold this nation together? How will you maintain a thousand years of brotherhood? Some things are easy to break, friends, but it's hard to fix. I mean, now you see it's very easy to give them one at a time as innocent rights, but it's not going to be easy to get these people back together again, to get them back in line. Again, the AKP's government has released the mission. Where will all missionary groups end up if they open missionary schools all over Asia Minor? O friends of the AKP, take your senses while there is time, do not sell snails in the Muslim neighborhood, it is a dangerous law. How are you going to stop the schools that the separatist terrorist organization is going to open? With this law, now that we've had the freedom to wear clothes, we're afraid the student photos in different disguises are in our press, so how are you going to stop them? How are you going to stop the separatism activities there? While there's time, please, think it over. When we negotiate with terrorists, we don't give them anything. There will be peace, and mothers will not weep, nor our young will die. The slogans are beautiful, and no one can object to them. No one wants war, no one dies, no one wants chaos in the country, no one wants chaos in the country, but the PKK and its local and foreign collaborators will want them, and one by one you will bring them up here, and we will see. There will be a defence law in the main language, 4+4+4 education reform, you will choose Kurdish, you will open the way for local governments to give Kurdish names, you will start preparations for public services to be used in the native language, you will start trying to pave the way for the main language in education; you will take out the city law and open the way for local autonomy under the name of the city. You have identified 63 people who utter nonsense about this nation's values, its unity, its integrity; each one of them plays a separate trumpet. I mean, if that's what's going to happen, I can see why the pashas are being thrown in. The name of the Turkish flag is changed. The PKK is not really a terrorist organization. The PKK is unfair, its rulers are good children, they are nice children, they are given false information, documents about them. It is possible to reproduce them, such as so and so. Now you say, "Let the terrorists go abroad, let the work be done." It's like this job is so easy, so cheap.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0082par0157	Mr. President, they're going to speak for themselves. If you'll excuse me for five minutes, he'll finish the matter.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0081par0158	Mr. President, I've got five minutes on behalf of myself, so if you could just put it together...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0083par0159	Yes, sir, yes.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0081par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. We've had enough compromises. Now, you've reached the point of ordering soldiers, governors, against the law. All right, what about the Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases that are going on right now? In these cases, the commanders are tried for attending seminars and seminars ordered by their superiors, and we have hundreds of generals, officers, and petty officers who are convicted of these cases, but what you order will not be judged. Is there such justice? Where in the world is there such a thing, my friends? Who gives you the authority to violate the Constitution and give you illegal orders as you wish, when the 137th article of the Constitution is in effect and is clearly enshrined in the Constitution? Where do you get the courage, the nerve? This is wrong, please, make up your mind, give up. Everyone, especially the Constitution, will obey the law. If the law is enforced, there will be no state order, no law, no justice; anarchy and chaos will dominate the country. The government's main duty is to ensure the rule of law and order in the country. The worst part of this dissolution program, called the opening process, is that no one outside the Prime Minister knows anything about this process. That's all the very, very smart men you've chosen. The work of the state is done within the law, in writing, in drawing, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the rules. Now, the Prime Minister is human. What are you going to do if something happens to him, how is this going to work, who's going to run it if there's no one else who knows? This process is a process of dissolution. If you don't turn back from this wrong, you'll spend these jobs here one by one under the name of simple sociocultural rights, and then, after that, the capital city, which you claim to have spent with innocent intent, becomes self-government, and then the federation comes and a separate independent state becomes inevitable. No one has the right. No one has the right to end our thousand-year brotherhood, to bring this nation into chaos, chaos. And no one can account for that. The National Movement Party is determined to stop this error and live up to our thousand-year brotherhood. The National Movement Party has thus far carried out its responsibility for the country's unity in the consciousness of responsible opposition; it will continue to carry out its responsibility. So far, we've warned you from the council bench as much as we can. We now warn from the squares along with the Organizational Meeting, which we started on March 23rd. We'll warn you again next Saturday at the Flag Meeting in İzmir. Please, make up your minds! Now, in this rally, we are waiting for the Flag Meeting, which we will organize on Saturday (April 20th) against those who say, "No" to offend our flag, against those who try to disrupt our unity, against those who attempt to disrupt our resurrection. But beyond that, of course, you have to be very careful with these. The AKP takes every law step by step. He's never brought anything here with his ultimate goal, his ultimate intention. But we've become the most law-making council in the history of the Republic. However -- I've served as an enforcer for 25 years -- changing so many laws, of course, causes so many other challenges, causes so many gaps and irregularities in practice. Because, in a hurry, these so-called resolution laws, which have been removed without enough discussion in such commissions, are causing serious loopholes in the law. To put an end to this law chaos and its weirdness, from now on, please, let's work properly on the law, let's work properly on the commissions, let's make everyone contribute to these laws; for the unity of our country, for the integrity of our country, let's make healthier, smarter, more logical laws for the living of our country. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0084par0168	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The second speaker is Erol Dora, Mardin MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0085par0172	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the 444th Law of Laws and on the first chapter of the Law Bill for Changes in Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in our country, the professional groups are currently operating in the dwellings, with almost no offices designed for the implementation of law enforcement, financial counseling and sworn financial counseling professions. Lawyers' offices, like doctor's offices, can't be considered a business. We see positive changes to law firms, free accountants, financial advisors and sworn financial counseling agencies have been made due to intense demands on this issue. A temporary two-year arrangement was made in the Law on Law 1136 to continue the activities of the law offices in the dwellings until a regulation was made concerning the law offices. The same arrangement is subject to financial counseling and under oath financial counseling. The amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 6111 and the amendment to Article 194 of the Law on the Amendment in Articles of the Law and Some Laws and Laws No. 1136 shall continue the activities of law offices and legal offices, as the period of which is two years since this clause is in effect, and the relevant sentence shall not be in particular in Article 3568 until the Article of Free Accounting and the Law on Adjudication and the Law shall be carried out by its colleagues until further notice. The envisioned changes are important and positive with the ability to make these temporary arrangements continuously, but since lawyers and financial advisors cannot fully resolve other problems, we also find it necessary to make more comprehensive and permanent arrangements. Precious lawmakers will consider their work on implementation of alternative conflict solutions as a criteria for the higher level of judges and the evaluation of first-class judges and prosecutors, as the amendment to the 6th and 7th amendment of the bill. In such a case, judges are pushed into solutions, such as intermediary, which are excluded from the official trial. In this way, the mediation system is a system that judges encourage, protect, and protect, which, as I've just stated, will lead judges to solutions outside the state's official judiciary. The most important duty of the state is to distribute justice, and it is provided through judges. They cannot give up justice, nor do they favor injustice. A society based on law and justice, no matter how far it progresses in technology, will one day be condemned to disband. As long as the government establishes justice, it can remain strong. Since justice can be distributed by an independent judiciary, it is necessary for the judge to decide according to the law and conscience of a person, institution or office without being influenced. The important thing to remember is that the independence of the judiciary, the guarantee of the judge, not for the comfort of the judges in office, but for the rights of society and individuals, for their future. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to point out to you that the amendments to the Law enforcement Act are a result of a bleeding wound in society. As of October 1, 2011, the new Law Law Law Act, which began to apply in all legal cases, has resulted in radical changes, and these changes have been intended to speed up the judicial functioning. The most important change in the person's right-seeking process is that all expenses to be made during the trial process are being recuperated while suing the legal courts. So, when a person makes a case in a court of law, he is responsible for investing in a court of law a total amount of information that will cover discovery costs, expert witnesses and witness fees, except for the court fees. According to the law, if it is discovered that this rebursed expense advance is not sufficient in the phase of trial, the case will be dismissed if the trial is granted a final two-week period for completion of the lack of a trial, and if the missing expense advance is not submitted in a certain amount of time, the case will be dismissed. Such a change was made to speed up the trial, but it did nothing but victimize the citizen. Citizens are afraid of the expense they're going to pay, so to speak, they're afraid to seek their rights. If the arrangements do not meet the real needs, the example I give you is not a cure for the problems of the citizens, but an eye is being dazzled by making eyebrows. This distress is becoming a victim to our fellow workers, especially those who have been wrongfully laid off. He's been thinking about whether or not to go to court where justice is being set up to seek the right of a worker who has been wrongfully fired. Because instead of paying a relative amount of tuition that he can afford, they're going to have to pay for the entire file. We receive complaints almost every day. We believe that this sacrifice must be resolved at once. The law must be passed not only for the comfort of capital, but for the peace and happiness of all citizens. Given the number of cases before and after the change in 2011, I'm sure the painful truth will come out. With the change being made, a person's right to justice has been stripped away, and it is sad to say that his faith in justice has been shaken. Consider a worker who earns a living for minimum wage. How will this worker seek his rights if he is wrongfully fired? Where's he gonna get the money? Is this the goal of accelerating the judicial process? Will it reduce the workload of the judiciary as a result of low-income citizens giving up the rights by not suing and thus reducing the number of lawsuits? It is possible to reduce the workload by creating structural, permanent solutions. In the state of law, the power of the state is limited to human fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, laws against human rights, which are unfair, must be avoided. The main goal is the creation of a fair, democratic society order. Otherwise, if we did it, we did it. If you say so, you can't go beyond being a state of law with the laws you've passed. This is not justice, nor is the state of law at all. The principle of the law state is the essential condition of the liberal, pluralist, modern democracy. The legal state represents a system in which the rule of law is to live, where the rule of law is to be avoided, where the state is bound by law, where the judiciary works regardless of independence and political pressure and interference, where the rule of law is applied equally to everyone, where rights and freedoms are guaranteed, where legal security is provided for individuals. To speak of the state of law, there must be a general, abstract, predictable, understandable and stable rule of law, and the rules of law must bind state bodies and administrators who use political power as well as those who are governed. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the legal arrangements brought to the General Assembly must, of course, bring a constructive and permanent solution to the problems. It is necessary to pay maximum attention to the lack of palliative arrangements for the establishment of justice. We believe that the laws brought in are the quality of society that meets the need for justice, that justice should contribute greatly to its establishment. That's how we express our views with these thoughts. I hereby salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0086par0186	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker is Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0087par0189	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on the 444-row bill of law. I salute you all. This is actually part B of the fourth judicial package, because we discussed part A, section 4/A last week. Now, that's the 4/B. This is the draft of the Law of Law. Of course, some provisions were included in the penal code. Now, of course, in fact, the need to change laws or to make laws again makes you feel like you're in the mood for the growing needs of society. We've just made this Law of Law Law law, and it's just begun to take effect. So we argued, and we said: "There are many, and there are many. " He did not rest. Now that this bill is back on the map, I don't understand where the need came from to change the Law of Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to take this opportunity to say that as you know, I'm an MP of Mersin, I'm a Silifkeli. In Anamur, in Silifke, in Aydıncık, in Mersin, in Erdemli, there was a heavy hailing and tornado, and it is said that there was great damage. The greenhouse manufacturers have a lot of damage. They need to be assessed and compensated as soon as possible. After every injury, the government or the Minister comes out, we do the damage assessment, we do it, we pay the damages. He says, "But he won't pay." This needs to be fixed quickly, because recently, the same incident occurred in the Virtue, and it did not happen. In particular, here, I want the ruling party's Mersin MPs to get out on the field, and I want them to figure it out. Dear lawmakers, this state of the Republic of Turkey has been actually reshaped recently, restructuring. This configuration, unfortunately, is not about democratisation, it's about authoritarianization. The judicial packages are being removed and they're called the Reform. Again, we remove these packages, which have led to the violation of the European Court of Human Rights, and we remove them to solve these problems. These packages are said to be opened, but each time they fall apart on the road, they fall apart. Here we go with numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and I don't know how many we're going to get from now on, but each package, after opening, brings rights, law, injustice. After the opening of each package, injustices, lawlessness, pleasure increases even more. Such an expectation was created in society in this package, known as the fourth judicial package. It's as if the hopes of solving problems in society have been pumped through this package, but we've seen that we've discussed part of the package (A), nothing's happened, and we're talking about the "B" part now, and it's not going to meet the expectations in society again. My dear friends, in fact, these authoritarianisms, these injustices, the unlawfulness, are not only in the field of justice, but in every part of society. Of course, in one country, when the judiciary is independent and neutral, without democracy, without freedoms, there are similar incidents in other parts of society. Now, in fact, the fundamental point of these problems in the judiciary, the fundamental solution to these problems, as I've always said on this platform, is that as we approach the solution of problems here, the government has turned to a quantitative approach rather than a qualitative approach, and let's actually, in fact, not grasp the human rights problem, but, in a superficially, quantitatively, quantitative way, to solve these problems, and what do they tell us, dear, as we're dealing with these problems, there's a file of violations in front of the European Court of Human Rights, and let's try to reduce these violations with a little bit of movement. Of course, Mr. Minister said in the Commission, "Why do we bother to reduce the violations in front of the European Court of Human Rights?," he said. No, it doesn't bother us at all. On the contrary, there should be no infringement in front of the European Court of Human Rights. As our Minister said, in Turkey of the 21st century, people should no longer have to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights for violating their rights. My dear friends, of course, one of the main reasons for these problems in the judiciary is the existence of a legislature that has made law-making a rule. I just told you, we're out of the law-making way, out of the technique, out of the way, out of the way. We make a law of 10 articles, we call it "reform"; we make 20 items, we call it "reform." In fact, we know that these are not reforms, and so do those who draft this bill. Because that's not how reform works, you do reform properly, and then you do the elements that complete it. The second issue is the existence of a prime minister and political power who has been cut off from the state of law. So the existence of the executive body is one of the main causes of the problems in the judiciary. The third is the presence of prosecutors and judges who view the rule of law as their own superiority, my dear friends. Besides, if we can't solve these problems in our minds, in our brains, we'll really see that the solution to these problems is not possible. Now, my dear friends, the European Court of Human Rights has been told that these packages were made to remove the reasons for the solution of these problems to human rights violations. In fact, the previous package was a package in terms of human rights and freedom of expression. But as soon as this package left Parliament, Fazil Say Tweeter was sentenced to ten months for the words he shared in the Parliament. So that's not freedom of speech. As soon as that package is released from Parliament again, as soon as the detention issues are not resolved, the prosecutor's opinion is very interesting in a decision made by the Van Heavy Penal Court in the TK case. I'm not saying why these people were released in the KCK case. I say this, friends: The most important issue the European Court of Human Rights has ever stressed in Turkey is that problems stemming from the institution of imprisonment have become widespread and systematic in Turkey. It's also a matter of not being held legally, which means arresting him is wrong. It's a separate issue, but it's stressing that the reasons for the arrests aren't true. Second, he says that the deadlines for arrest are not reasonable. Now, look, he didn't solve these problems, and unfortunately, eight of these Parliament's MPs are still under arrest. I said it on the commission. There are three MPs in Silivri, and if they go to bed, there's nothing I can say to them, but there are five MPs on trial in the ACK case. Now, ordinary citizens are being released in the TK case. E, let him be released... which means that the evidence of the arrest has been compromised... or the defendant's suspicion of escape has been eliminated... if the arrest warrant is lifted. Because that's the main reason you're being arrested, there's no other arrest, you can't arrest a person for another reason. Well, you let them go by deciding that ordinary people aren't going to black out the evidence, or that these people aren't going to run away, but you don't release the lawmakers who are being tried in the same case, the MPs who represent the national will. What you're saying is that the MPs will run away, or they'll black out the evidence. I'm talking about the same case. Now, I'm reading a draft from the Van Special Prosecutor's Attorney's Office, folks. Prosecutor: We demanded the arrest of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) for violating social peace because we thought that the whole group of the defendants would be arrested on the grounds that they were members of the organization. Now, the question, Mr. Minister, is there any reason for this arrest in the Penal Code to think that rural and street events continue? Or is it the reason for the arrest that social peace has been damaged? Now, Mr. Prosecutor has demanded arrest because he thinks the PKK's rural and street incidents are continuing because it will undermine social peace. At the coming stage, however, it appears that the organisation has ended its actions or made such a decision. We, the Van Public Prosecutor's Office, ask that the accused be released as a result of the removal of the grounds for the destruction of social peace. What if, for God's sake, friends of the AKP, my fellow lawyers, have a conscience or a conscience, or a reason for such an arrest or such an evacuation in the Penal Code? We're not talking about the court's original decision, we're talking about an arrest, my dear friends. Again, where in the Penal Code is the right to plead for those who commit these crimes for 40 minutes, and for those who commit these crimes there is a right to defend one hour. There is an open sentence in the Penal Code: the defence cannot be restricted, whether it be ten years or fifty years. But now, look, again, the court is making a decision: if it's a aggravated life sentence, there's no sentence, the court's president says -- those who are tried for aggravated life imprisonment are given two hours and one hour to defend those who are charged with organization membership charges. And I'm asking: What clause of the Penal Code does this apply? Or don't the rules set out in the Penal Code link judges and prosecutors who make judgments in this court? Is that just for lawyers? Here, my dear friends, when there is no law in Turkey, without justice, without independent justice, this goes, it affects the Mediterranean seals in Silifke. Look, it's affecting the Mediterranean seals. What does it say here: the Mediterranean seals are in danger. Now, valued lawmakers are envisioning three thermal plants in the Yeşilovacık district of Silifke, and Akdere district. We all know that one nuclear power plant was planned in Akkuyu, and that's not enough, they're building three thermal plants, and they're building two cement factories. People don't want it, people don't want it. Where's the coal? Thermal plants work with coal, you know. Where's the coal? Coal will come from South Africa. For him to come, they build a second port in the Port of Greenovam, they expand, they fill the sea with those rocks. And when they fill it, there are nests of seals, where there is a port in the Mediterranean, where they close the mouth of those caves, and there are new-born seals. Now, we all know that these seal fish live out of sight, out of reach, and there will be 10,000, 12,000 tons of coal per day. Now, where there's no coal, is there a coal power plant, that kind of understanding? This is the Department of Environment's writing. The Minister of Environment says: "We have a commitment according to the Verification contract, which is not allowed to build ports or to do so," he says. The port is being built there, the port is being built! Now, here I am, really, residents of the Yeşilovac region, residents of Akdere, all Silifkelites, the AKP people, the People of the AKP, the People of the CHP, the People of the Covenant, are rioting against this incident. You also declare a city of tourism, from the west of Mersin to Gazipaşa. You say it's the potential for tourism, but you slaughter it with a thermal plant. Well, why don't you do it in other places where there's coal and you come to this thermal plant and you do it where there's no coal? They're bringing coal from South Africa. Now, my dear lawmakers, as I just said, this is the Ministry of Forestry's writing. Under it are the signatures of Ahmet Özyakik, the general manager on behalf of the minister. Regarding the port, about the port at Yeşilovacık, it says that this legal process states that no construction activity should be launched until the end of the process. But I'm reporting from here that the docks are being built, the dozers, they're all there. On August 28, 2008, our Prime Minister says: "I am the environmentalist's genius, I am the environmentalist." Now, seals need to be saved, that environmental massacre has to stop. I would like to invite Mr. Prime Minister, who is a great environmentalist. Again, Prime Minister. At the 10th conference of the United Nations Forest Forum the other day, he says: "If we continue to consume the world that we inherited from our Ecdad and entrusted to our children at such speed, there will be no atmosphere left for us to breathe. I'd like to give you an example of a well-known Indian proverb: when all the trees are cut down, when all the water is polluted, when the air becomes breathless, then you'll know that money is not edible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now that the Prime Minister has seen the massacre of both the sea and the environmental slaughter in Silifke's Greenovak district, please stop it, dear lawmakers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0088par0219	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Now, we have friends in the system. We'll do the QA. First place, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0089par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, there's been an investigation. According to this research, 101 CK prisoners have been released in the last month. Of course, imprisonment shouldn't turn into a punishment, unless there's a danger of tampering with evidence and escaping, people should be tried without arrest. But as these evacuations take place, Mr. Secretary, why is there no release in the Ergenekon case, the Sledgehammer case and other political-qualified cases? Have you ever felt the need to investigate this? I also asked you a question yesterday, but unfortunately the answer was not received. At yesterday's group meeting, Gültan Kışanak speaks of local associations from Kurdistan. Is there also a form of governance in our country called Kurdistan? How do you feel about that? What do you think of the government?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0090par0226	Is that a state? We've been set up and we don't know?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0091par0227	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Can...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0092par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how many courthouse palaces did you build during your administrations? Can you compare it to the sum of what was done up to 2002? When, at what cost, was HSYK's right to appeal to the Supreme Court and to the Supreme Court under judicial supervision? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0093par0233	Thank you, Mr. Can. Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0094par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in particular, our fellow members of the opposition have made constant statements that detention hearings have become widespread. In recent years, can you give us ratios and figures on how to change the rate of prisoners and prisoners in our country? Is it true that the arrest hearings have increased? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0095par0238	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0096par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on a question I asked at the meeting the other day -- about the withdrawal of terrorists -- it's really, it's a very public issue, and we're often asked questions about this -- Mr. Secretary: there is no study about the removal of the perpetrators of the past 30 years of terror, the loss of lives, the loss of blood, the tears of running. The work that has been done is to make sure that the blood that flows so far does not flow after this, so that the sufferings of the past may not happen after this. You answered, saying, "This is what you have done." But Mr. Prime Minister said on a television channel where he was released -- because public opinion is following them -- that they should bury their weapons or else they should dump them somewhere. Otherwise, if they leave this country with their weapons, I can't convince the public, and I can't convince my security forces not to fire. We don't ask them to demagogue. We're really worried about this. So, what's to be done during their withdrawal?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0095par0242	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0097par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. The third article of the draft law states that law offices can operate without the permission or the same conditions. I'd like to know why various trade groups, including medicine, psychologists, dentistry, have not been taken in, question number one. My second question is, which mayors have been suspended from office for the last month because of the TK case, and I'd like to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0098par0248	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Whiteheart...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0099par0250	Minister, how is the workload in the Supreme Court in recent years? How long will the appeal of decisions made in Bidayet courts have to be examined either in punishment or law offices? My second question is, what are the rates of punishment and law violations and approval of appeals?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0098par0252	Thank you, Mr. Whiteheart. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0100par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm also asking you again, in the sense that the answer to a question I asked yesterday wasn't very good enough. Now, yesterday, we said: "Will you instruct the security forces not to conduct any transactions during the departure of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) when given against the Law?" Mr. Secretary said: "That will not happen." But as we see it in the press, the governors will be told not to leave their base zone, Mr. Secretary. What does that mean? So, you'll never interfere, you'll just stay in your territory, you'll keep your head out. You'll send out a sentence, and you'll order the governors? I'd like your opinion on that.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0098par0256	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0101par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'd appreciate it if you would inform me of the latest situation of the prison you planned to do in the district of Beşikdüzü of Tripoli. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0102par0261	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0103par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that in 2002, when the AKP came to power, the total number of prisoners and prisoners, 59 thousand, reached 135 thousand in recent years? If these figures are correct, does this indicate the corruption of the economic and social structure of your time in your power and the destruction of your sense of justice? Also, yesterday you gave me figures on the number of prisoners and inmates. Prisoners who were convicted until the AKP came to power were considered as prisoners, while the figures that were given were, however, the figures that you reflected, the prisoners, unfortunately, are among the prisoners. In what period was the data change made by the Justice and Development Party? Because, unfortunately, with the changes in 2002, it's not possible to compare reality to today's numbers because of this criterion change.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0102par0266	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0104par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Since my earlier question is incomplete, I'd like to continue there again, Mr. Secretary. Now, during the withdrawal of these terrorists, does the state have any record of how they may or may not have committed a crime, guilty or not? I mean, is there a record of that in the state inventory? Is that what they're going to do? And about this process, I think it was last night, when Professor Yücel Sayman, one of the smart guys, came up with some questions about it, he said, "I'm really confused about some things, actually, there are some question marks." I mean, if the smart guy's got a question mark, I wonder how they'll shed light on the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0105par0272	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0106par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start with the first question. Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz has been released in one month, while Ergenekon, Balyoz Vesair are not being released in cases. They asked me why. Mr. Yilmaz, you've also been a lawyer. As far as I know, each case is judged on its own terms. The charges have been filed against the defendants, demanded sentences, demanded sentences, all of which are the nature of the case, and the special circumstances of the defendants in the case are of special importance whether they will be arrested or not.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0107par0277	It's for independent and neutral courts.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0106par0278	Now, I don't need to remind you that in TK investigations, there's also the difference between the transfers for the defendants in the trials, the criminal limits of the substances they're being tried for, and the criminal limits you're talking about in the cases mentioned. I'll never admit you didn't know that.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0108par0279	Even that would be a disgrace to power, Mr. Secretary. It's enough to keep the ones inside with the ACK. K.K.C. is innocent!
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0106par0280	Therefore, it's in your courts to appreciate it here. I don't think it's very unusual that there's a difference between being a prisoner in an organization's case and being held in a life sentence. Again, regarding the second part of your question: Are the representatives from Kurdistan, from a sentence you mentioned, true or not, I do not approve of this statement, but Mr. Kışanak is the MP, and if he did say so, the question is his own. Turkey is part of this country, under the flag of this country, all over four geographys. According to the ethnic origins, beliefs, sects, social layers of the people living in that geography, local names are not defined, but in modern modern states, government management is the same temperature that comes to its citizens in all four corners of its country, with the same warmth, with the same embrace. Mr. Can, how many court palaces have been built since 2001? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we share these with you on various occasions. At this time, the court palaces that we have offered have exceeded 160. These have reached more than 4 times the square meter of what was built up to 2002, as far as the closed area. In this regard, as a physical place, we have dealt with the problems of the Turkish judicial system significantly. The issues of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, have been resolved. The Supreme Court has been earmarked, where project work is being done. This will solve the matter of our Supreme Court's physical location after the project and registration. So, the problem with the physical space of our judicial system will be resolved. There have also been significant developments in technical infrastructure. The IYAP Information System and our judicial system are integrated into one another, the first-level courts and the high courts are integrated, and the entire system is linked to the IYAP network, and IT technologies are in perfect condition to be uncompatible with 2002. Turkey, which is currently using IT technology at its highest rate in the judiciary of member states of the Council of Europe, is a happy development for us. Secondly, you've asked a question about the opening of HSYK decisions into judicial control. It's, as you know, a situation that was provided in 2010 with a constitutional amendment. Until then, HSYK decisions were closed to judicial control, but with the change made at that time, the decision to be discharged from the profession was opened to judicial control. This was also the right approach, Mr. Can, to ensure that a severe discharge from the profession would be passed through the supervision of the courts. Again, there are widespread complaints and criticisms from the opposition over the arrests of Mr. Tunç. Can you pass on to us the rate of change of prisoner trials in Turkey? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've tried to express this before. There are serious changes in the rate of detention in Turkey. However, Mr. Kokturk stated that this was a relative recovery from the failure of prisoners to account, but let me make it very clear that there is no more class of prisoners in the presence of the Court of Human Rights and the Court of the European Court of Human Rights. These are being evaluated as convicts after the court's first-degree court has ruled.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0109par0286	I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, when did you begin this practice?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0106par0287	In this regard, even if you take into account the comparison between 2002 (2004) and 2012, even if you place convicted prisoners, there is a reduction in nearly half. Dear MPs, 50.4 of every 100 people in prison in Turkey have been arrested. When? 2001. In parallel with this question, I would like to answer the question of Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk. To what do you attribute the fact that the prison population, which is 59 thousand in 2002, is now in the 130,000th century? Dear lawmakers, those numbers may exist in 2002, but it's at its lowest point due to the 2001 pardon before that. 59,000. But if they look at the 1999 figures, they've got 70 grand in prisons.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0109par0289	It's not 134 grand.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0106par0290	Dear friends, with the new penal code in effect in 2005, the fight against crime and guilt has been significantly facilitated and their stay in prison has been increased. According to our penal code, a person sentenced to a hundred days in prison prior to 2005 could be released on condition of 40 days in prison, so good circumstances could be released by executing 40 per cent of his sentence. After the 2005 change... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Hopefully we'll continue to answer the rest later.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0110par0293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on Article 1 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 444 rows, is 1. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Serindağ Faik Öztrak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 444 of the 444 row bill be removed from the draft text of Articles 429 of Articles 439 and Article 5236, dated 1201.2011 and Act 6100, dated 373, 18,06.1927, and passed by Article 1086, under Article 16 of Act 5236. İdris Bauken Sebahat Tuncel Aysel Tuğluk Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0111par0309	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0110par0310	Government?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0112par0311	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0113par0312	Motive.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0110par0313	I'm reading the reason: The amendment also mars the position of the Supreme Court of Appeals to be a referee and a judge. However, this change also constitutes a violation of the Supreme Court's Law. Again, it is a matter not to be overlooked by the possibility of conflicting the way the Supreme Court has developed, in the sense of acquisitor rights. Since the change is not an expression of a real need, the proposal for this change has been made by betting. Who's gonna talk about you?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0114par0317	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0110par0318	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0115par0320	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as I began my remarks, first of all, the technical staff from my hometown arrived today with temporary worker status working in the municipality. They know there's some work in the ministry's agenda on subcontractors and especially contract staff, but the technical staff, which has been working for around 16,000 years in Turkey, who have worked as a temporary worker, are architects, map engineers, and many technical staff, have not yet been recruited. If we have friends who are interested in this matter, friends on the commission, please, if we can go into it... 16,000 people are watching right now, and I think it's necessary to answer those right demands. As for our view of the first article of the bill: What is intended to be done in Article 1 is actually a very serious change in the Supreme Court of Appeals. Under normal circumstances, in practice so far, if the appeals were fundamentally broken by the Supreme Court or, in fact, approved by the Supreme Court, if this matter was accepted exactly as it was, the next time it went out, the Supreme Court would not be able to decide in any way contrary to its previous decision. Friends, it's a concept that we have entered into our legal system in 1959 with the decision to unify the drunk that was introduced and we call it the legal acquish. This means that, in fact, to ensure legal safety, to further consolidate the trust in the law, and to ensure that the courts or the Supreme Court agencies do not constantly make conflicting decisions on the same issue. However, with the change now being made, it is given the right to break what the Supreme Court agencies had previously approved on the same file. So, the Supreme Court agencies will now face a situation where, as before, they decide against the decision they've made. This, on the other hand, is a total blow to this country's security system, this country's legal system, the credibility of the law. It should not be done, because with a structure that has been sitting in our legal system and in our legal logic for years, knowing the Supreme Court's authority to decide in the exact opposite way that it had made the previous decision would indeed destroy people's trust in law. You're saying that the judge's office can decide against the previous decision. This time, when he goes to the General Assembly of Law, the General Court of Law will consider what decision to be a earned right, according to what? I mean, there's gonna be so many conflicting decisions about something in the same case. Believe me, we didn't understand what this was all about. I've spoken to many practical friends from the Supreme Court, and such an application does not exist. So far, there's been no serious problem with this, but the Supreme Court has warned all the judges about the earned acquisitor's rights. There's only one exception, and there's only one exception for him to be able to reverse his previous decision: financial mistakes, changes in public order. But believe me, neither our friends in the Supreme Court nor we have been able to understand why this could happen. It comes to mind that we don't want to take the chance, but it occurred to us, dear friends, that this is coming for a special case, which is limited to the concept of a special case, or a special case, which is entitled to this one. There is also an arrangement, particularly on the 6th and 7th amendments of the bill, in which judges are promoted, in their grade progress, alternative conflict solutions to their progress, such as mediation, that it is also important to direct citizens to those systems. Our fellow judges say: "Why have we, then, studied law school for many years, and why have we received these trainings for many years? We shouldn't have had these trainings! If they're going to convict us of intermediaries like this, if they want us to lead the citizen to the negotiators, they should close these courts. With such an arrangement in the Republic of Turkey, and according to all universal law laws, special legal methods are now put before the courts to be eliminated as a result of centuries of the struggle by independent and neutral courts. We never accept that. They call it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't think the change in the bill is appropriate. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0327	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0117par0328	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0329	I'm going to submit two motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor of the motions... Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0332	Mr. President, Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, the President also counts. So between the two clerks...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0333	No, it's not like that. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0334	Yes, sir, if you open the Civil Charter and read it, the president will also count it.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0335	It's an electronic vote when there's a conflict.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0336	No...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0338	Sir, I'll give you two minutes and we'll vote electronically.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0340	I mean, the woman from the AKP, the lady, who doesn't really look good on the lady, the lady...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0341	It's the fairest, the fairest.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0342	But, why? I mean, you can't just say...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0343	Yeah, not like that, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0344	Yeah, so you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0345	Take your seats, please. Please... please take your seat, over.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0346	After that, the lady there has to count honestly, but every time there's 50 people here, she's counting wrong.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0347	You have a friend here, and he's counting with me.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0348	It's wrong, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0349	You will trust, you will trust your friends, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0118par0350	No, what's not, after that... you're always protecting the AKP... when the ladies are supposed to be doing more honest work! What kind of a thing is this?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0119par0351	Of course he's going to protect the AKP. Is he going to protect CHP?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0353	Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are two separate motions on Article 2 of the same nature, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 444 rows is 2. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Ramis Topal Uğur Bayraktutan Ömer Suha Aldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the 444 draft bill be removed from the draft text of Article 4 of the Interim Article 1086, dated 18,06.1927. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Aysel Tuğluk İdris Bauken İbrahim Binici Erol Dora Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0120par0369	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0370	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0121par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0122par0372	I'll do the talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0116par0373	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0122par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion we made. I salute your committee. Of course, while Mr. Justice Minister is here, I'm going to share with the General Assembly that there have been a number of issues concerning the Ministry's concerns -- even though we've been passing them along so far -- that there has not been enough work done, and I'm going to try to invite the Ministry back into a sensitive attitude. In particular, number one, this is the case with the sick prisoners. Currently, 413 patients are under arrest in Turkey's prisons, and 122 of these 413 people are suffering from severe illness and a chronic illness that could die at any time. There's been some serious setbacks in the treatment process for these patients. These patients are at risk of losing their lives at any moment, especially because of the setbacks in their treatment process. Despite the fact that this Parliament has passed a law on this matter, the Justice Department still has a slow-tracked, problem-sensitive attitude. So all 122 of these heavy patients have one last wish: to make the final stages of treatment with their own families or to give their last breath to their own families. We don't understand how such a human demand can be taken so slowly when it's out of the law. We have a duty to call on the Minister -- he has signed on many positive studies so far -- to call on him again to be sensitive about this matter. On the other hand, the forensics process on these patients is pretty severe, and they're expected to be released from forensics, and they're losing their lives. That's how we lost a few patients in the past three months. I mean, we've said over and over again that a full report from a university hospital or a full-fledged education research hospital in the Ministry of Health should be considered sufficient when that law is being discussed. However, I'm guessing the Ministry doesn't trust a university hospital or a health department hospital, which is what the coroner's report says. Thanks to forensics, bureaucratic slowness, bureaucratic hard work does whatever it takes. The patient dies in prison until he gets a report. I mean, if you just look at how Shaabedtin Azerbaijan lost his life, you'll know what we're talking about. On the other hand, the problems that exist in prisons continue the same way. There are practices in Tekirdağ Prison, in Şakran Prison, in Çıkkale Prison, in many prisons that are now very heavy and incompatible with the dignity of humanity. During previous hunger strikes, the Justice Minister stood on the stand at each time saying that there was no hunger strike because of conditions in prisons, and that everything in prisons was a rose. But right now, the hunger strike in Tekirdağ Prison is nearing the 25th day, and only because of the heavy conditions in prisons. Attempts by the guards and soldiers to establish an orderly position there almost every day are a problem in front of the prisoners. First of all, the soldier has no authority to establish an order in the prisons, Mr. Secretary. We've already told you about the problem, you said you'd follow up, but the problem continues the same way. The poetry, the story, the article, of the prisoners in prison, is confiscated and not returned. There is a separate torture chamber called Sünger Room. There's a special concept that the tortured people are telling us about so they probably won't be heard. Nothing's ever been done about it. On the contrary, there are practices in Tekirdağ Prison that remind you of Diyarbakır prisons in September 12th, when Mr. Prime Minister criticised them. The fact that the prisoners are conducted in single order, the arbitrary printing of the wards we just talked about, the fact that the soldier is in the process of these kinds of prisons reminds us of Diyarbakır Prison directly. So either that's not where your Ministry says it is, or there's a government out there that really wants to bring up Diyarbakır Prison, to remind them of that process. The work your Ministry has done on these matters is clearly inadequate. Again, we request that your Ministry perform a thorough study before the General Assembly. My compliments to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0123par0384	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Who will speak, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0124par0386	Mr. Omar Suha Aldan.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0123par0387	Omar Suha Aldan, Mudla. Mr. Aldan, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0125par0390	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been sentenced to a poem. First of all, I'd like to point out that this decision is a tragedy, a page of shame in the name of our legal history. Not for corruption, not for murder, not for murder, not just for eating, but for one poem, a conviction, not for punishment, but only for this country's legal understanding. We knew from the ideas and the politicians, the journalists, who had been locked up for a long time, that the political shadow had fallen upon the judiciary, that justice would eventually come to pass, that the law would only work according to the principles of justice, and that we would leave the negatives of this dark period behind us, but after this final decision, we see that the judgment is not truly independent. This way is wrong because justice will be needed for those who are politicizing the judiciary one day. You can't explain this decision to your own children, you can't explain to the world that we live in, that other wrong decisions under freedom of thought, because no law has ever legitimized injustice to anyone, no administration, no power. The world has changed, but look at the point where our country is looking for human rights and democracy, look at the issues we're dealing with: we blame poetry, we exclude thought, we suspend freedoms, and then we complain why the world doesn't like us about human rights, freedom of thought and expression. How far can we go with these bans? What truth can we cover with bans? Honourable MPs, these words are neither to me nor to Fazil Say. These words were spoken by Recep Tayyip Erdogan in front of 30,000 people in front of İstanbul Municipality on September 24, 1998. Do you know what the most famous slogan at that meeting was: ▪ Innocuous media. When we looked at them, there was a conviction from poetry, there was also today; legal decisions were being discussed, and legal decisions were being debated on that day; Enlightenments and journalists were thrown in jail, and today we were talking about the most famous slogan at that meeting. We couldn't explain it today, and today we couldn't explain it to the world. So, where's the advanced democracy? And Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, Mr. Fazil said, "Don't keep us busy with them after Mr. Sayal has been sentenced to this sentence." Dear lawmakers, the point we have come to regarding human rights and fundamental rights is, in fact, in the words of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister gave a note to Mr. President over the history of democracy in his group speech in Parliament. I'm just not going to grade Mr. Prime Minister on this, because his speech in 1998 and the point that came in today is that he actually means his grade, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0126par0394	Two motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0127par0395	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0126par0396	I'm gonna put it in your votes, and I'm gonna call the number of decisions I need to make.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0128par0397	Mr. President, your appreciation is important.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0126par0398	Those who accept the motions... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0129par0400	There's a contradiction, a contradiction!
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0130par0401	Mr. President, there's eyes, there's trace.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0131par0402	There's eyes, there's trace.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0132par0403	No, there's the eye, there's the stain, there's the contradiction.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0133par0404	What's the contradiction, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit03spe0132par0405	There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0132par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the two motions on the 2nd Article of the Law Bill 444. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We will now resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, there's a motion on Article 3 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 444 rows, is 3. In the last sentence of the clause, we respectfully submit and propose the addition of the letter "Kaksine" to be removed. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Ramis Topal Uğur Bayraktutan Muharrem Light Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0134par0016	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0132par0017	Government?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0135par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0132par0019	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0136par0020	Mr. Muharrem Light will speak.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0132par0021	Mr. Muharrem Ilk, Erzincan MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0137par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, when every law is passed, you use the expression "Let us do better with human rights and rights. " Last, the beginning of last week's law was the Law on Human Rights. When you say right, law, and justice, you never leave ashes in a barbecue; you say you don't eat unlawful things, you say you do justice, you say you don't do justice, you don't do justice to anyone. Mr. Secretary, you're getting a court record. You take exams; first you take a written test, then you take a oral exam. And you say that you were very fair there when you took these exams. And they're being taken to the courthouse, and it's supposed to be even fairer. Of course, the tests show how to be fair. I'm going to give you an example from Erzincan: Erzincan was hired in about a year and a half for almost 43 clerks and other tasks. All of these recruits are listed, and I'm telling you clearly, they're out of Ankara. For all we've said, those names have never changed. Right now you're saying peace process, you're saying brotherhood, you're saying friendship, let's do peace process. How intimate you are has already been in the events of this Tigris last week, and you've already shown that from the beginning to the end in these transactions. Now, among those taking the test, a total of 49 people are taking the test, one is not coming to the test, 48 are taking the oral exam. We have a friend, Kamber Akbaş, who graduated from the School of Justice. This kid gets 86,271 points, and this kid's already graduated from the School of Justice. Another friend, Ahmet Solak, scores 85,158 points, and another one, Emre Bozkurt, scored 82,336 points. These are the ones who received the highest grades in the central exam -- the first test. But when he comes to the oral exam, they give Kamber Akbaş 61.66 points, and Ahmet Solak gives 53 points to our friend, and Emre Bozkurt gives 53 points; they give 85 points to our friend who's in the 8th place, and the others go 85, 81 points to win. Now, what you're going to say here is: he went into the screen, he took it verbally; he went in with the written word. No, Minister, you know that the names have gone out of here, and what needs to be taken there has been taken. If you are the Minister of Justice here and you wish to bring justice to this Turkey, you will cancel this test. And then after you cancel, you're going to send in a commission that's really fair, and you're going to do a written test, not a verbal exam, and you're going to do it in writing. Then we'll see who wins and who doesn't, and we'll see what justice is like. This fellow, called Kamber Akbas, is entering the 5th and 6th expedition; he has received 85, 90, 95 points, and has not been able to get a job at any of them. He's totally getting the kid's rights, and the others get the rights. And I can tell you one by one who these winners are, who they are, what they do in Erzincan, whose son, whose nephew, where they go from. There's no such thing as injustice. We're here, let's not take anyone's rights; we're saying a lot of things, we're saying a lot of things, but when we get here, it's not so unfair. That's not the only reason, Minister. This system is being implemented in all the tests conducted in Erzincan, Turkey. There are cantars on the side of the roads, to measure the weights from here. All the names of those who were left here were placed in the bag, they were pulled out of the bag, most of the applicants had no names there, so it's clear how they came out when there were no names. We have a plow girl's home. A friend of ours who works here under contract, a gym teacher, got laid off. They said: "He will be appointed by the Ministry. We know who was taken a week later. Thousands of other things like that. If you want brotherhood, peace here, peace goes down that road first. If you don't treat people equally, if you polarize people like this, if you really force people to do things, there's no peace in this country. Nothing can be solved if you don't see it. We say that if peace comes, you will not tolerate the events at Dicle University, and you will not tolerate the injustice of these purchases in Erzincan. And if you're really fair, and you believe that, and sometimes I actually have questions in my head -- they're asked in the afterlife, and they're asked here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0138par0032	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 444 rows, is 4. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0139par0043	It doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0138par0044	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0140par0045	Mr. President, while I give my opinion on the motion, Mr. Muharrem I have to tell you that these purchases are not the purchases that our Ministry may have directly interfered with, but the purchases made by commission heads of justice, chief prosecutors and a member of commissions. If you have found any irregularities in these purchases, please report them in writing regularly and let's follow them, Mr. Light. I can't agree with the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0138par0047	Mr. Flagtutan, Artvin MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0141par0050	Mr. President, very dear MPs, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. At the beginning of my words, I would like to share a document I received today with your grand delegation. It's not about the Ministry of Justice, but it's about the Ministry of Interior. This is about asylum seekers and asylum seekers. Due to recent developments in Syria, foreigners seeking asylum in our country, haymatlos, the Homeland Department publishes a summary of some provinces, and there is Sinop, there is Zonguldak, there is an army, there is a Girezon, there is only one person who can be placed in these provinces. Let me count these provinces -- there is no province, there is no il Rize, there is no il-Sun, there is Sinop, there is a Zonguldak, there is an army, there is a Trebzon, there is only one person. Now, Mr. Prime Minister invites them from Syria, although I think Rize should be the most invited, what criteria have been applied to this measurement, and I'd like to make it clear first. My dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment. The main reason for Article 4 is that if there are multiple administrative or tax courts within a judicial environment, there is a division of a task by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, especially in order to ensure that it can be consulted. Now, here, of course, the natural judge principle, let's put that aside. This is one of the most important cases of residency when we come up with this reason, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, private jurisdictional courts. Mr. Secretary is pressing charges against them, asking why we're talking about private jurisdictional courts here. In our previous talks on the laws, why are you discussing them in the first place? We've been trying to explain many times that all the rules of fair trial have been violated in this ongoing process of state security courts, which began with state martial law courts, which are alleged to be civil law courts, followed by special-level courts, which are now under counterterrorism courts. Now, in Article 4 of the article, we're violating something else while we're presenting a process that can go to the residency courts. I'm afraid we're taking the right to a fair trial with the special authorities that we claim to be civil courts, my dear friends. So what we're saying is that we can't explain their length of imprisonment to Europe or to the European Court of Human Rights, especially in terms of criminal trials in the future. I mean, there's no way we're going to be able to explain the arrests in these courts for ten years, my dear friends. We can't explain the evidence here, the concept of hidden evidence, the concept of a secret witness. We're having trouble understanding that the head of this country's terrorist organization is a witness in a case where the Chief of Staff is tried as a prisoner, and we're having trouble explaining it. We don't know who the hidden witnesses are, we don't know what the hidden evidence is. Look, just yesterday, there was a statement made by Microsoft regarding the Sledgehammer case, and there was evidence. The fonts on that date are in the 2003s of 2007. I don't understand the problems with the trials here. Mr. Secretary, the date of September 12, 2010 is a turning point for the judiciary, a turning point. I've said it in a speech I've had before. At that time, on September 12, 2010, you brought down the judge's foot, one of the most important rules of the rule of separation of forces. When I was speaking to you at that time, I did not call you Mr. Justice Minister, I called you the special official justice minister. Why? Because you took on a mission. We know where they come from, how judges and prosecutors are made officers. I mean, in terms of my own constituency. Don't we know how the judges at the courthouse sent the lists to the prosecutors, that if they didn't have the necessary names on these lists, the necessary accounts would be asked, that they were given a hard-on, Mr. Secretary? Now, I'm talking, and I know you're not listening, but here, as opposition lawmakers, we have to talk about this. September 12, 2010 was an operation, and you're the head of this operation. On September 12, 2010, the independent judiciary in Turkey was unfortunately overturned. You're one of the people in the chain of command and order of this collapse, but this independence of judgment may one day be necessary to anyone, and you will need it. I hope you don't need it. We'll see about that in the next few days. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is now a board of officers in this country, my dear friends. While the judges are being appointed today, while the prosecutors are being appointed, the basis of their integrity has been left aside, a single way of rising here has been brought into the form of loyalty. The scale of the rise in the public should be merit, loyalty shouldn't be, but unfortunately you've made HSYK a board of officers beyond an independent board. Hopefully we'll see if it touches you in the next semester. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0142par0060	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th is accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 444 rows, is 5. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Ramis Topal Ali Riza Özturk Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0143par0071	We don't care, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0142par0072	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0144par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0142par0074	Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP. Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0145par0077	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the 5th Amendment, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, it seems we still haven't been able to explain our thoughts on the problems caused by the institution of imprisonment, which continues to be a burning problem in the judiciary. In response to the question of Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, our minister said: "Every case has its own unique properties. " I mean, some cases have more punishments, some fewer. Now, in many decisions, the European Court of Human Rights emphasises that the quality and nature of crime, the current evidence situation, the escape of the accused, cannot be issued with abstract suspicions. The European Court of Human Rights, in fact, does not accept the nature of the crime, the weight or lightness, the nature of the charge made in the indictment as the basis of arrest. Now, according to Article 90 of the Constitution, we are bound by the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which means that our national judges and prosecutors in Turkey, who have decided, are, however, obliged to comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, they have no right to appreciate this issue, so this is binding. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights admits two main reasons for arrest: First, the defendant's suspicion of escape. Secondly, it's a danger of blacking out evidence. The presence of a criminal suspect can't be the reason for the arrest, he says. That's not what I'm saying, it's the ECHR. So, even if these circumstances exist, even if the defendant is in danger of escaping and condemning evidence, regardless of the amount of punishment that is in response to that crime, there are conditions for arrest, and if you can't get the result by arresting him in other ways, you have to arrest him, but there are conditions for arrest, but if you can get the purpose by arresting him in other ways, then the judge has no right to appreciate whether or not to make an arrest decision. Now that I don't understand, everyone in this country says, "Sir, this is a right of appreciation." A decision to prevent one person from being free from freedom is not a decision that can be explained by the right of appreciation. There are rules here. If there are arrest conditions, if the result of your arrest can't be achieved in other ways, then you have to arrest them, but if they're up, you have to release them. I've just told you, I've read the argument that Mr. Prosecutor at the Van High Criminal Court has no place in law. I mean, there's no warrant for an arrest on the basis of a case. That decision, in fact, shows that his arrest warrant was wrong. Citizens, we have made an unjust arrest. We have now decided on the Ergenekon case, the CK case, the case in Silifke, the case in Mersin, the case in Adana. In those cases, of course, the decisions to make are different in the amount of punishment. The nature of the crime, you know, is about punishment, but in those cases, if the defendant has no doubt about escape, if there's no danger of tampering with evidence, or even if it is, if you can prevent it from happening in other ways, you can't make an arrest warrant. Leaving it to the judge's discretion means not understanding the law. There's been a decision made here about the former Chief of Staff, a ridiculous decision. It says there: "There is no reason to arrest the State of Crime." I think it has to do with Karaadai. Then he leaves, goes to the forensic control system. What if there's no reason to arrest my brother, so if there's no reason to arrest him as an abstract crime suspect, then you can't go to the forensic control system anyway. So, if you have a reason to arrest him, if you can avoid him with forensics, then you're going to go to forensics. And there's no reason to arrest him alone. You say that, then you go to the coroner's office as if there was a reason to arrest him. Now, all of this stems from the wrong practices of judges and prosecutors. These are not mistakes made in practice of the law, they are conscious, persistent mistakes made. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Things that are done at the cost of Turkey being a prisoner in the ECHR. So if we can't make the arrangements, if we can't change the mistakes, don't worry, we'll be more condemned in front of the ECHR. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0146par0083	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 444 rows, is 6. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0147par0094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0146par0095	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0148par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0146par0097	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0149par0099	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I particularly want to complete some of the issues that have been lacking in my speech, which may remain incomplete due to the lack of time. There's been a change in the establishment of the residency courts. In any case, a amendment is being brought under the Constitutional Article 142, which should be under the law, and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is authorized to establish special courts. If that happens, when the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors can self-determinate their trials, then we are concerned that there will be private court of law, which violates the principle of natural judges, according to the cases. Just as there are special authority courts within the framework of terrorist courts today, and people are deprived of their freedoms through direct appointments, if they are deprived of any rights, if there is a violation of the natural judge's principle, this time, we think that the courts that should be established against the Constitutional Article 142 will be established on the basis of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. So we don't think the change in these substances will be right. Besides, some issues were discussed today at the Constitutional Compromise Commission. I'd like to share my opinion with you on that. The Constitutional Compromise Commission held several talks on the first four articles today. We've stated from the beginning that the first four articles can't be changed, that they can't even be offered to be changed. However, in the AKP's motion and the BDP's motion, we observe that the first four articles have been changed and that every effort has been made to be changed, and even in the proposals proposed by the Commission, the fourth clause has been eliminated. So, when we want these substances, it's like they can be replaced in any way we want them to be. Why are we saying that the first four items cannot be changed, dear friends? There must be lawyers here. I mean, even in European countries, if there are changes in the constitution's entirely relevant or important clauses, there must be a founding assembly if there are major changes to be made. How does the founding council set up? If you decide to change the constitution, first of all, that parliament is being annulled, and only a parliament is being formed to make the constitutional amendment. Some of the articles, articles or constitutional clauses that you've created to make the constitutional amendment, are being brought to the agenda, followed by a referendum. This is true in many countries in Europe. However, when this Parliament is forming the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're going to replace these articles of the Constitution, we're going to eliminate them all. Have you said anything like that? Has he received such authority, Parliament? He didn't get that kind of authority. Therefore, the founding assembly is not. We will remove the concept of Turkish citizenship. We'll authorize the district councils. We're going to get the education done in the native language. Did you say that? Is he in charge of these matters, my friends? These matters are not authorized. What are our invariable substances? Our language being Turkish, the preservation of this country's indivisible integrity, the protection of the republic's values; we've been given authority over them, you've sworn to do so here, but now you're trying to change what you've sworn to do.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0150par0103	Who wants to change?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0149par0104	A state based on religion cannot be formed, including the Constitution's principle of relativity. You are trying to eliminate the principle of religion and empty it. There is one thing about sovereignty, my dear friends, it says in the BDP's motion: "Egemanship belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to the conventions of the region." Likewise, in the same day, Mr. Prime Minister says: "Why shouldn't the state system be in Turkey?" After that, wise men go out to talk about this division project, saying: "Where will you be divided?" How is this going to happen? This is how it's going to be, my dear friends: if you give division, the authority to make laws to the district councils, if you give them administrative autonomy, if you give them security authority, if you give them the authority to teach them, it's called division, whether it's a district assembly... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to strengthen local governments, whatever you say. Do you realize that? I'm asking you, I'm asking you, especially you, the patriotic MPs in you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0151par0110	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0152par0111	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0151par0112	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 7 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 444 rows is 7. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Serindağ Ramis Topal Uður Flagtutan Faik Öztrak Kazım Kurt Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0153par0123	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0151par0124	Government?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0154par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0151par0126	Mr. Kurt, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0155par0127	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 7 of the Law Bill 444. I salute you all. First, during the preparation of this bill, the proposal, signed by me and Mr. Moses, was to be included in the Commission. This has not been done, I'd like to remind you of that. Now, with the 7th clause brought in, the promotions of judges and prosecutors are considered to be made to be made, and there is a clause in the past that says that the efforts of judges, prosecutors, to produce jobs, to create decisions, to not produce jobs, to send citizens on alternative routes outside of legal means will be taken into consideration. The main thing, however, is the solution in the law, the solution in the courthouse, the solution in the trial, but in order to speed up the trial, we act with an understanding that has gone against the law in all the laws that we set up to make legal arrangements. On the other hand, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors made these arrangements with the necessary principle decisions, and according to these regulations, they drew promotions. Now, the arrangement is a system based on the fact that the judge gets more points in the way that the prosecutor directs people out of law, which is never an acceptable point. In fact, we want to try to draw a line on the privatisation of the judiciary, which is not a very accurate approach, by closing the courts, by trying to put it on alternative analysts called mediators, conciliators or ombudsmansmans. We need to figure out where and how to do it the fastest, the fairest, and the fairest, to judge here in accordance with law, justice and justice. The way to do that is not to close courts in Turkey, but to open more courts, to bring more services to the citizens' feet. In Eskişehir, at the moment, eight districts of 12 existing districts do not have courts. There are four courthouses in the county, and the rest will be completely solved at the courthouse downtown. We asked the Ministry, Mr. Minister, how did you resolve the disputes that have been found in Syitgazi, Mahmudiye, and Mihalgazi courts that have been closed in Eskişehir, how did you come up with a formula, how many of them were able to go to courts in Eskişehir? I haven't been able to get an answer yet, and I'd like to say that I've been waiting for his answer on this occasion. If Turkey truly wants to carry out a fair and just judicial system, it can be done by bringing a serious legal reform, not by multiplying these packages, but by bringing them in alone and properly. There's no use and no use in making the law more complex, more inconsequential, by bringing in very different applications in each law, in every fundamental law. As a matter of fact, in this law, we draw a line of understanding that eliminates the crime by bringing in the article on illegal education of the Criminal Code, as well as by organising law and administrative law. And I think that this is not entirely in accordance with the law, and that you should support our motion, and at the very least, the judge and the prosecutor think that their promotion should be based on their decisions.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0156par0135	Thank you, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0157par0136	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0156par0137	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept the motion... those who do not accept it...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0157par0138	No, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0158par0139	There's another one? I'll get a notary here one day, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0156par0140	We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. Now I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current bill, 444 rows, is 8. In the first sentence of the clause, we respectfully submit and propose that the declaration of the article be removed. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Ramis Topal Uğur Bayraktutan Sena Kaleli Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0159par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0156par0154	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0160par0155	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0156par0156	Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0161par0159	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 8 of Bill 444 that we are discussing. I salute your high council. Starting with my words, I commemorate our 8th President, the late Turkut Ozal, on the 20th anniversary of his death, and Dr. Ersin Arslan, on the 1st anniversary of his death. I also wish that the village institutes would celebrate the 73rd anniversary, to shed light on the education system of the Anatolian model, which is an example, teaches and teaches many countries. Dear lawmakers, it's easy to talk about ethics, law, justice, but it's hard to apply. Article 8 of the bill is added a paragraph to Article 50, which regulates fiscal rights in the Law of Judges and Prosecutors, and the subject of rent assistance is being organised concerning assignments abroad. However, when it comes to justice, those who serve not only abroad but in the country must be treated with justice, not only with the balance of financial rights, security and working conditions. Because, as Voltaire said, the best duty of mankind is to distribute justice, but our experience has shown that neither the laws that have been passed nor the courts, whose name is the palace, nor the financial and social rights, are enough to ensure justice and judicial independence. In addition, judicial independence, basic rights and freedoms, equality, tolerance, conscience, and morality are needed to ensure justice. Where there is no justice, even if the harshest punishments are carried out, it is difficult to prevent people from doing wrong, whether they are conscious or conscious. The more man worships power, vanity, the more he destroys justice himself. Those who hide their true intentions from themselves and from others, those who are ashamed to confess to themselves, those who have thoughts and goals, form alliances with those who seek profit, they have a majority. The more manipulative you are and the more you need something, the more reason your mind can give you. In this way, majority support takes over the authority to determine everyone's abilities, abilities, needs. The easy thing is to get into the system. In the most primitive religions and beliefs, there is the purity of the universal mind. There is no conscience, no morality, no justice for those who are ignorant. Such people are easily convinced that they have practical solutions that are unplanned, unconcerned, that they believe in what they know, and that they capture the age, and that they have them, and that they have their environment, and that they lead nature, and the system, and the justice, into the path of no return. Objectivist thinker Ayn Rand sums it up: The only leverage of any government is to get on top of criminals. Laws and regulations that can't be implemented are also enforced. If there's not enough criminals and crime, then we need to create them. You declare so many things a crime that it's impossible for people to live without breaking the law. But if the laws that have been passed can't be obeyed, applied, objectively interpreted, then you create a country full of lawbreakers. Then you apply the law to anyone you want, and you start earning money and power out of guilt. While you punish one side, which considers the country a voter, you can't achieve justice by rewarding the other, you feed your power and sovereignty with your injustice. That's the system and the game. Unfortunately, if you can't play this game, you'll be accused of being behind the age and marginalizing. Still, the best way is the shortest way you know how. Justice is late, and divine justice waits for its day. I pay my respects with these thoughts.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit04spe0162par0166	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 8 accepted. I'm taking a break until 8:30.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0162par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of Bill 444. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part covers the 9th and 15th article. On behalf of groups on the second chapter, Ali İhsan Kokturk, Zonguldak MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Kokturk, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0163par0010	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second part of Bill 444, which we are discussing. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, first of all, the laws we shall adopt from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be in accordance with both our Constitution and the universal laws of the Republic of Turkey. However, the bill that we discussed violates the universal principles of law, as well as the open provisions of our Constitution, as well as the principle of natural judges, as well as the principle of the legal judge. In addition, it is highly wrong for the law to take part in the legislation for criminal law, which should be included in the fourth package of judicial reform. Such an unexplainable method in the Justice Commission has made it clear that some issues should not be discussed along with the fourth judicial package and that they would be taken away from public interest and attention by feeding into this bill of less public interest. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, the basis of a fair trial, the rule of the judge, has two basic elements such as the rule of law and pre-privity. The rule of law stipulates that the procedures of the courts can only be regulated by law, by the establishment, by the mandate and by the jurisdiction of the courts. The prerequisite is that the duties and powers of the courts, the functioning of the courts, the judicial procedures, are determined by the law, as well as that it is necessary to be found before the conflict that is to be judged. Here, these fundamental principles mean a trial and a trial where there is no life, where the judiciary is open to intervention and there is no trust in the judiciary. In this sense, the 37th article of our Constitution clearly emphasizes that there can be no extraordinary authorities in its second joke that have the power to establish a person other than the court under which he is subject to law. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, despite the universal guarantee of law in our Constitution, we have seen a lot of practical practices that have resulted in severe victimization, of course, the principle of the judge. In particular, we have witnessed how the judge's principle was destroyed in cases in which Mr. Prime Minister was a prosecutor, and in cases with close ties to political power. We've been living with many examples, such as the first hearing of the three-man judge's committee to handle the sledgehammer case, and the dismissal of only 48 hours before the first hearing, and another one, and the transfer of a temporary officer to another court. Unfortunately, with this bill, we now see the regulations that we see in the criminal trial that make these actual practices permanent in the judicial trials, as in the law of the private law, as in the Silivri law, as in the Silivri courts, create special competent courts. Because considering the density and quality of work in Article 10 of the bill, the distribution of jobs between the apartments can be determined by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Dear lawmakers, the 13th article of the bill, which is included in this bill, although it has nothing to do with it, is also lifted from the 263th article of the Turkish Penal Code. In a more specific statement, the ruling that the AKP has already been reduced by the change in 2005, that those who have opened an educational institution against the law and those who run it will be punished with prison and criminal fines is removed from the Turkish Penal Code. In this case, there are significant consequences for the past as well as for the future, a partial, veiled forgiveness arrangement, despite the clear ruling of the principle of equality in Article 10 of our Constitution. Dear lawmakers, the removal of Article 263 from the Turkish Penal Code is clearly an incentive to open an illegal educational institution. But education, as we can all appreciate, is the basis of all our achievements and national integrity, its infrastructure and its source. As Mr. Sezer put it, the basic requirement for developing a free-thinking youth that absorbs democracy and modern values, embraces the basic qualities of our republic, stays away from all births and questions, and ensures the bright future of our nation is to have educational institutions and educational staff focused on these goals. Therefore, in accordance with the Ataturk principles and revolutions of education and teaching in the 42nd Article of our Constitution to prevent education from being diverted to contrary to the values of the republic, modern science and education has been suggested that the state should be kept under supervision and supervision, and that it cannot be opened. However, this step, taken with the removal of Article 263, is clearly in violation of the principles of secularism and education, the open provisions of the articles 2, 4, 42, and the laws of revolution, which are guaranteed by Article 174 of our Constitution. Dear lawmakers, the state must prevent the opening of illegal educational institutions from beginning with its provisions, not encouraging them to open them. The government's task should be not to keep illegal educational institutions alive, but to eliminate them permanently. These tasks are the primary obligation of all state bodies, particularly the legislature and executive bodies. For all of these reasons, the removal of Article 263 of Article 263 from the Turkish Penal Code, the basis of the republic's enlightenment, is that it changes the educational order with a hideous 4+4+4; in the T-shirts of our Great Leader, in the eyebrows and badges of our Great Leader, in our schools, in the Turkish Grand National Assembly; it is the understanding of the Republic of Turkey, in the name of banks, in the name of the ministries, in the 100 years of republic as a period of denial and assimilation; in the new hope of our country's terrorist organization; in the light of our nation's new savior and a new hope; in the light of our nation's new nation; it is a global notion of power and an openness of power. We see these steps, step by step, one by step, and they're very clear, and they're planned. However, we shout once again that we will not allow these actions, the forces behind these steps to be achieved, whoever and whatever they may be, to protect the republic's gains at any cost, and that we will always stick to the revolutions of our Great Leader. I salute the High Council with these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0164par0021	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Enver Erdem. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0165par0025	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group over the second chapter of the Law on Laws of Law and Changes in Some Laws. I salute your high council. In accordance with this bill, valued lawmakers are under the Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Law on Justice and Prosecutors, the Law on Judicial Law on Judicial Law on Justice, Law on Law on Law 1136, and regulations on the rights of judges to be appointed abroad. In this arrangement, again, the main problems of the judiciary are sadly forgotten. It is clear that this provision does not include preventing lengths of detention, reducing the judiciary's workload, establishing a judicial law enforcement organization, establishing an application union in judges, increasing the number of judges and courts. Dear lawmakers, we stated in the Law of Law, that the burden of the judiciary with peace, mediation and arbitration cannot be reduced, when you submitted them as prescriptions for the resolution of the issues of the judiciary and brought them to the agenda of the Assembly. Now when you see that these establishments don't work, you need that kind of arrangement. Let's give the authorities an advantage over their promotion by solving the problems of the judiciary in institutions that are not entirely in the judiciary. By the hand of the judges, you're handing over the judiciary to the outside of the law. We know, of course, that legal safety and stability are important for society to maintain its faith in justice. When viewed from that point of view, this bag is also seen in the law as making arrangements that do not require a change in the law. Article 1 of the bill envisions the transfer of judicial control under the authority of an office of the Supreme Court to the Supreme Court. Although the Supreme Court -- already existing -- may be able to agree to unify the court, the effort to submit a similar authority to the Supreme Court by law would be an unnecessary arrangement. Again, the third article of the bill organises the business department between management and tax courts. Although the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been able to regulate the jurisdiction between the courts, it would be unnecessary to regulate this issue with the provision of the law. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important articles of the bill is undoubtedly Article 13. This clause rules out Article 263 of the Turkish Penal Code. What does Article 263 arrange? Those who open illegal educational institutions are sentenced to three months to a year in prison. The removal of this clause is carried out under the supervision and supervision of the state on the basis of modern science and education in accordance with the Ataturk principles and languages of education in Article 42 of the Constitution. They cannot be opened. It would be contrary to the rule of education and teaching. ▪ The illegal educational institution cannot be opened. Are embezzled and ordered to open ill-advised educational institutions? By removing obstacles to illegal educational institutions, schools will be opened under the control of the terrorist organization? Or are they also promised? Again, the eighth joke of Article 42 of the Constitution (The Constitution) cannot and cannot be taught as their native language in any language education and teaching institutions other than Turkish. Is this clause removed to be overcome? If, no, if he has any reason other than those reasons, the ruling lawmakers will have to make it clear here. Is the removal of such substances seen as the execution of the Constitution's Article 42, without sanction, and without sanctions, until the new constitution of the AKP's government has been established between commitments to the Imralı criminal? Dear lawmakers, secret negotiations with the terrorist leader continue, their instructions are enforced, laws are enforced, and by each law, these regulations are reduced as daggers to the unity and unity of our nation and brotherhood. Last week, you've made it possible for the terrorist organization to do propaganda by removing obstacles to propaganda. You've put terror and terrorist organization on a legal basis, and you've removed the terrorist organization from being a concept of blood, death, trouble, and you've allowed terrorism to be a little more internalized by our nation. With this arrangement, you've divided terror into algebraic and algebra-free. With this arrangement, you have ensured that our country's psychological operation succeeds. As a result, you've released separatism propaganda. You made the PKK a legitimate political party. You've cleared the way for the development of political Kurdish policy. You've taken another step forward on the path of division and disintegration. One of the most controversial questions that have been asked in recent days is that you make deals with the PKK and make promises to the Imralı villain at the table. It's called, "What commitments are there?" You answer: "No negotiation, no compromises." Yes, there's not much left on the table, you've carried out everything the Imran villain and the separatist organization want, and there's only two things you haven't done; one of them is the release of the terrorist leader; two is to ensure the employment of the leaders of the separatist organization as a self-defense force. Except for these two demands, the terrorist organization and the baby killer are out of demand. From now on, there will be arrangements between you and the terrorist organization that will fit the gesture and the mest equation. You also want to conclude by bringing these regulations against the Constitution into the new constitution. See, the baby killer, Kandil, BDP, what they wanted, what you did: their first demand was that Kurdish be the second official language and have the right to education in the native language. What have you done? You have built TRT Shesh, and have started Kurdish publications. In the 4+4+4 arrangement, you also conducted Kurdish as an elective language. You made legal arrangements in the name of defence in the native language, and you did so by embarrassing yourself to the world. You're decriminalizing illegal educational institutions as a crime. We also bring the arrangement in Kurdish to benefit from public services. You say. You allowed Kurdish use on official documents, signs. So, I'm asking, with these regulations, whether you put them in the Constitution or not, did you or did you not make Kurdish a second official language? Second demands: we want autonomy, federation, and otherwise fortified local governments. What did you do? You have passed the entire city law that will pave the way for administrative federalism, which we call the Metropolitan Law. Doesn't the prime minister argue that the governors can run with the election and that administrative federalism should be carried out? Third demands: we want the delegation of intelligent people. They said. Didn't you set up a council of rational people? The fourth demand: we want a commission to investigate the facts. Didn't you bring him to the House? Their fifth demand: ▪ Release the terrorist organization's propaganda. They said. You didn't bring it? What else can you do, precious MPs? Dear AKP MPs, I salute your grand delegation with the wish of your immediate return from these wrongs.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0166par0047	Thank you, Your Grace. The third speaker on behalf of the groups is Bulent Turan, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0167par0051	Mr. President, I have sworn on behalf of our group on the second part of the Bill of the Law, which has been adopted, and on the second part of the Law. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, dear friends, from 2002, when he was a Justice and Development Party government, he worked day and night to give as much of his name as he could, working with his entire team...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0168par0053	You weren't there. You weren't there. You're new, you weren't here!
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0167par0054	Our nation, above all, appreciates that the Ministry of Justice, together with its team, has taken steps in the name of our democracy in a very serious way. And again, very briefly, when we look at these regulations, it's a fact that justice services, around 1 billion in 2002, amounted to over 5 billion in the final arrangement, and that there are courts in a country in 2002, where there are courts, and that there are now more than 150,000 special places called the justice court, where judges and prosecutors are being judged by 34 percent, while the number of judges and prosecutors have increased by 78 percent. Of course, these are our physical studies. We're not limited to that, and we're not limited to that, and we're not limited to that, from the removal of the state security court in our country's legal system, which we may have imagined, to the removal of the criminal record records and the giving of this power to the trustees, to the establishment of this alternative conflict, from the Office of Public Controllery to the establishment of the Constitutional Court, to the possibility of an individual application to the Court of Human Rights, to the fourth judicial package that passed through the European Court of Human Rights last week. Other than that, we have also seen with great pleasure that in many areas, such as the Turkish Penal Code, the Law of Trade, the Law of Law, such as the Law of Law, we have seen very serious fundamental laws in many areas, that our barrooms, lawyers, partly our opposition parties support us, because as the Justice and Development Party has been called, we are inextricable. My dear President, my dear fellow lawmakers, when we look at what brings us to the bill we're talking about today, we first see practical measures being taken. When we look at it, we see that in the same case, in the same case, there are some important regulations for preventing different decisions from coming out, even though the file hasn't changed. We see that the current arrangement has been continued by removing obstacles to lawyers, free financial advisors, accountants opening offices. We see that courts and judges have been opened up to their expertise in the matter of the case, and they have been given an opportunity to do so. While our judges and prosecutors are being evaluated, we're looking at whether they're doing the right thing by the Arbitration Act, which was on our agenda earlier. We're opening the way for our judges and prosecutors serving abroad to benefit from the rent aid, and we've also seen 5,000 clerks and as many as 60 judge staffs being provided, considering the needs of our Ministry of Justice and the Court of Prosecutors. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when we looked at what our opposition party friends have brought up in this bill, what they're opposed to, we've just heard, the removal of Article 263 of the Turkish Penal Code, or Article 13 of the bill, as well as the removal of the prison sentence for the establishment of an illegal educational institution, in other words, has been a problem. My dear friends, first of all, I'd like to say to you to relax: the prison sentence is a three-month prison sentence with a three-month lower limit, so it's not something to be too afraid of, which is a lot of sanctions. With a three-month sentence lifted, the Republic will be destroyed, as you would say, the Tevhid-i Tedrisat will be destroyed. Besides, the essence of politics is trust in the nation, we have to trust in the nation, dear friends. Three months suspended, hurra, everyone's gone, started their kid in illegal education schools, illegal courses. There is no such Turkey anymore, friends. Now, the sons of this country have become different people who are studying abroad, who are forcing Ph.D.s, who are pushing all kinds of college opportunities around the country, who are following all kinds of advanced technologies. Now, as in the one-party years, from a narrow point of view, closed educational institutions... there's no such thing, my friends. The fundamentals of this country, the sons of this nation, are now planning the future; there's a changing Turkey, there's a different vision. One other thing, I'd like to point out: which terrorist organization, which fugitive Koran course director, by your testimony, will give it up for fear of a three-month prison sentence? It's not sanctioned, guys. You know better than anyone what three months of sanctions have been reduced to fines. Another thing: it's an inhuman execution system. Don't you say it's for prison? Look, once we're off the hook on this, it's never going to go unpunished, not every side is going to stick to some kind of course. Although there are over 10,000 education courses, the number of lawsuits is already in effect from February 28th. So there's a lot of problems, not a lot of problems, my dear friends. Besides, if there's anything infractional, the city will do it. However, if there is anything in the training system that violates the Anti-Terror Law, the TMK will do as it should. Besides, if there's a problem with the Turkish Penal Code, the prosecutor will do it. Besides, you may not know, I'd like to point out -- I'm not going to go into detail because I don't have time -- I've got the Special Education Institutions Act, I've got the text in front of me, I've got the 7th Amendment to close. Are we worried about beating up the farmer or eating grapes? If you're saying educational institutions are against the law, we already have the authority to shut them down. I'm going to go ahead, there's the National Education Basic Law, and there's also a closing penalty, administrative fine, everything but jail. You know, it's hard to understand that you're so obsessed with prison, that you're going to expect jail time for everyone but Silivri. There's an administrative fine, and I'll say it again, other than that, there's a restraining order, I'd like to say that. That's why I think you're playing too hard to get. More importantly, my dear friends, I would like to point out that this law is a law that was reduced in 2004. When this law was brought down, our friends from the opposition party -- you know which one -- went running to the Supreme Court, telling the Constitutional Court that it was against the Constitution, and that the punishments should not be taken down. The Constitutional Court has studied this issue, and in 2005 they have made a decision, and they have said, as we say, that it is already contrary to Articles 2, 5, 11, 41 and 174 of the Constitution, that there are many other penalties and many other sanctions in the proceedings. They have said, "It is a reasonable arrangement." Mr. Haydar, we're making a statement, we're making a law. You're taking him to the Supreme Court. The Constitutional Court also teaches a lesson in law. It's been a few years, and you're having another discussion. We tell a joke, two days later you laugh. Oh, for God's sake! So, not laugh in two days, but come, catch this day together, support this law. There's nothing extraordinary here, my dear friends. When we look at another issue: I want to say that, like the regulations that have been implemented in the past decade, this bill is a step in the direction of human rights, in terms of democracy in our country, in terms of fast legal justice, it will not be enough, but it will continue. On this occasion, it is a step in our democracy to restore the opportunities for our lawyers to open offices, to address some of the difficulties of our judges serving abroad, to provide some opportunities for our judges and courts to specialize, to eliminate the conflict of decisions that may be made during the appeal process, to make such and similar arrangements. Ben believes that when a reasonable, unprejudiced look at this is revealed, our friends from the Justice Commission, the CHP, will also support this issue, and he hopes that the law will contribute in terms of democracy in our country, in terms of quick legal judgment, with which I welcome the General Assembly with respect and good evening.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0169par0066	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Speeches for the group are complete. Now, on behalf of the members of Nevşehir MP Murat Gökturk. Mr. Gökturk, please.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0170par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf regarding the second part of the Law bill concerning the Laws Act 444 and the Amendment to Some Laws. I salute your esteemed delegation and my beloved nation. Before I begin my speech, our 8th President, the late Turkut Ozal, remembers him with mercy on the 20th anniversary of his death, and I ask the grace of God. Dear lawmakers, the bill brings new regulations on many matters. The first is that, in the event of the original rejection or acceptance of the case, the appeals to the Supreme Court should be conducted by the Supreme Court in the case of a resumption of the local court order to eliminate the previous corruption. This is indeed an important arrangement. The right is sacred, and even if it's 1%, it's impossible to endure a situation that causes a loss of rights. It will cause any loss of rights by the Supreme Court in any way as we make a trial, and in the case of a situation that we have stated above, it will be provided by the General Assembly to examine and eliminate the rights losses, mistakes, at the same time. One concern is that the procedure is focused on researching rights and material law. The important thing is that the material truth is revealed, so the procedure is important in law, but not in material real law, but the first priority should be the discovery of material truth. Again, the bill allowed lawyers and free accountants, financial advisors and sworn financial advisors to open offices in places that appear to be a residence according to the Catastroy Act. As it is known, with Act 6111, the matter is arranged with the temporary clause, but since the deadline has expired, there has been a request from our colleagues and accountants on this matter, which has been met in this manner and the problem has been resolved. In the same judiciary, there is an arrangement for the establishment of the work department between the courts by Judges and Prosecutors' High Council, in order to ensure specialisation of special laws if there are no other provisions in the cases of multiple administrations and tax courts. This does not violate the Constitution's 2s and 38st Articles and, of course, the rule of justice, as the speakers have just said, since they organise the business division between the administration and tax courts established according to the Constitution. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, however, did not set up new courts with this arrangement, simply needed such an arrangement to eliminate the quality, intensity, and complexity of situations that require expertise. In our opinion, it's a proper arrangement. The study of alternative conflict solutions in the assessment of first-class judges and prosecutors' work is also a measure of assessment. This is a parallel arrangement in accordance with the Arbitration Law, which we took out just a few months before the Assembly. The Liaison Law clearly stated what issues could be the subject of mediation. Here he will be able to mediate matters that are not contrary to public order and can be decided freely by the parties. The important thing is to reduce the burden of their courts, so it's an important approach to preventing the trial from going to trial. Again, regarding the removal of Article 263 of the Turkish Penal Code, the speaker before me has already explained in detail that there is nothing to worry about or to be afraid of. These special educational laws are very detailed in Articles 3 and 7 and 7. This does not necessarily mean that the sentence will be lifted, that there will be dozens of illegal private educational institutions opening tomorrow. I feel that the arrangements are in place and fit for the needs of our citizens, and I salute the High Council and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0171par0081	Thank you very much, Mr. Gökturk. Now, Mr. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin on behalf of himself. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0172par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, in the 2nd chapter of this law, I would like to welcome you to a five-minute conversation on behalf of the person. First of all, I'd like to point out that there are a lot of lawyers among you, Mr. Secretary of Law, Mr. Commissioner is a lawyer. But this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where it's legislative; there has to be a quality, a rule, a standard of living. Now, I don't think Mr. Pestilence is comfortable with the declaration of the Law for Change in some Laws. You're making changes to the Turkish legal system, such as the Law of Law, to a very huge, very fundamental issue, but you add a sign to it that there are some Laws that need to be changed, and you put it in a bag and you put it in there. Dear friends, this is a law-making establishment, where the law is established, you have to set up law-abiding law. So it's very necessary, in order to judge, for the administration of Turkey, for the European Court of Human Rights to make such an arrangement, but there's no way to understand the reason for this kind of irrigation. Now, you're making changes in the Law Code of Law, and you're also making changes in the Turkish Penal Code. Three days ago, however, we discussed a package of judicial changes in the Turkish Penal Code. So, first of all, I want to remind you that what we're doing is not a business, it's a business, it's a government-knowing, it's a government-knowing minister who said a lot of meaningful things here yesterday, so we've prepared our strategy document in the Turkish judicial system, and we've announced it in 2009. When we know what to do, Mr. Secretary, you're in conflict here, you're changing the Turkish Penal Code in the Law of Law. Judgement, I'd like to put to the attention of your own attorneys, not like this. Secondly, dear friends, you will change the law in accordance with the law. Look, Article 38 of the Constitution states that no one can be held back from his freedom simply because he cannot fulfill a contractary obligation. Are we or are we not? We're putting it in. Mr. Secretary understands what I'm trying to say. In violation of this commitment, dear friends, today has become a social problem. People don't fulfill their commitments for their own reasons or, you know, circumstances, internal and external reasons, and we just throw him right in. How can he fulfill his commitment? So we insist that a solution should be produced. So we insist that it's not right for people to be put in jail for three months for violation of the commitment, that it's not justice, it's not justice, it's peace, it's peace, it's confidence in the state. Let's get an adjustment on this. The law you've already brought is the law. There's everything here; you're making changes in the Law of Law, you're making changes in the Turkish Penal Code. So let's give an answer to the expectations of our people who are waiting for a change and watching, listening to us. We've prepared a motion, and we said, "Come, if he's paying a quarter of his commitment, let him up, let him up, let him up, let him go, let him get into an effort to fulfill his commitment." We've expressed it in the previous court package, and you said, "Bring him in the Law of Law." You say, "We will bring him in now, before we can break the eye of the frog." You say, "Mr. Minister, please raise water before the eye of the frog breaks." So let's work together to solve the problems of our people who committed suicide, attempted suicide, and therefore acted at the gates of Parliament. If you can't produce it right now, it will listen to you from here when we're going to produce it, and I believe that our citizens are waiting to hear from us on the Internet. I'm having this conversation to give them a chance to say something. I hope that we can establish the law here that will solve the injustices of all parts of society for some reason, and respect all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0173par0092	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The talks on chapter two are complete. We don't have a friend who hacks into the system for questions. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 444 rows is 9. In contrast to the last sentence of the clause, we respectfully offer and offer the addition of the notice. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Ramis Topal Uğur Bayraktutan Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0174par0103	My dear President, in fact, I would like to speak on behalf of the Commission in this bill. I understand from the body language of the General Assembly that -- it's already passed -- the urge not to speak --
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0175par0104	Brother Ahmet, we'd be happy to listen to you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0174par0105	However, I would like to share my statement of two or three sentences with the High General Assembly as part of the second sentence of Article 87 of our Interior Charter. In particular, the amendment to the Law of Law in this bill is truly a reform. One goal is to improve the control quality of the Supreme Judiciary, maintain the stability of the chamber, increase confidence in the judiciary, and, contrary to what is alleged, make the right to accession more acceptable, habitable, adaptable. Our commission has discussed this issue with references, on pages 27-29, 32-33 of its report, as well as academic texts. I disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0176par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0177par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0176par0111	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, sir.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0178par0113	Mr. President, I'm very happy to hear from you, Mr. Commissioner, that I've actually heard your word "reform" and "reform" with my ears. But in reform, I seek human happiness; in reform, I seek the happiness of prisoners and all other prisoners, Mr. President. So, Mr. President, I'm sorry I can't agree with your word "reform" I'll tell you why. Friends, prisoners and prisoners are in your care. These are people, first of all. You're talking about human rights, you're talking about people's rights, you're talking about people's rights, you're talking about people's Reform is given human rights. If a court says he's dying, he's sick. If forensics aren't taking him to the hospital for 45 days, Mr. Commissioner, where's the reform? He's dying, 45 days...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0179par0115	It's about the Law of Law.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0178par0116	Sir, I don't understand the law. The prisoner and the prisoner are in your custody. If you're doing something, I don't understand the law. The people there are your trust. I'm not saying anything else, he could be guilty, he could be innocent, I don't understand the law. He said, "Reform." Mr. Commissioner, the patient is dying. Where's the reform in that, Mr. Commissioner, if the forensics haven't taken it and looked at it for 45 days? If this man dies, who is responsible for this man, Mr. Commissioner? Forty-five days later, he was kind enough to take me to forensics. It's been 15 days, Mr. Commissioner, 15 days. Tell this man: "You have nothing, my brother, and you are in good health. It has been fifteen days, my friends. Two words, one report. Is this guy cancer or not? Well, none of this is there. Don't worry about people for 45 days. No one will know if you die there. Fifteen days will pass, they'll examine it. What's the report? If this man dies, who's to blame, Mr. Secretary, who's to blame? If he's guilty, they'll pay for it, but he's sick. Mr. Secretary, these prisoners, these prisoners, these prisoners are your trust. At least, like a human being... they don't live there as human beings, it's a torture house. But at least in your illness... a man who's sick can't answer. Ask the honorable man for an account, ask him if he's guilty, but a sick man can't answer, Mr. Secretary. It's against everything. Cirrhosis, liver cancer... that's all I'm saying. So, Commissioner, I've always believed in you, but I've really thought this word of yours is very strange. Nothing that doesn't invest in a person can be reformed, that's reformed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0180par0122	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 9 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 444 rows is 10. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Faik Öztrak Ali Serindağ Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0181par0133	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0180par0134	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0182par0135	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0180par0136	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0183par0137	Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0180par0138	Mr. Ozturk, Mersin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0184par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. So, now, when we look at the articles of the bill that we're talking about, when we look at the number of articles that we're dealing with, really, this fundamental rule of law, which, in particular, is that we're going to talk about what this bill brings to and fro, and what it takes to the length of this bill, in fact, it's going to be more accurate in terms of the law-making technique, but it's been set here as an exception in the Civil Law. Now, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, every bill, really, as the basic law, without meeting, is passed by people not saying what they think. It's clear how the bill and proposals came to the commissions, how they were brought in. The duration of the stay there, the amount of time people have to do research on that subject. Now, the key issue for the government to bring in the bill is actually to get the opinion of the institutions and institutions related to that bill. But, Mr. President, we all know that our fellow commissioners know that there is no longer the opinion of the institutions and institutions involved in the debate of the legislation, that the experts don't really come; they just don't come to the justice department bureaucrats, you know, with the participation of a few fellow judges from the Supreme Court, usually with the participation of the employees under the executive body. It's not right, and it's not in accordance with the law-making technique. So what I'm suggesting is that it's better if we make a law and send these bills and proposals directly to the presidency for approval after they've been released from the Council of Ministers. My dear friends, when law goes, democracy doesn't come. In fact, democracy and law are intertwined concepts, without one there is no other. You can't increase democracy when you're running out of law, and law should actually sit on the basis of justice. We say that all the time. Law is not law that doesn't sit on justice. First of all, justice takes its power from the public conscience. It is the law of the unjust, the law of the unjust, that grieves the conscience of the common people. Now, Mr. Aslanoglu has just told me that the Forensic Medical Association is actually an executive agency of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Secretary of Justice, at your disposal. Last semester, I filed a motion to investigate the investigation of this Forensic Medical Association, about the operation of the Forensic Medical Association, about the decisions here, about the results of the reports. We never met him, he never accepted him, our friends, our friends from the AKP. Now, imagine that one person is called a patient, a cancer patient, and may not have cancer for any reason. We've passed a law in the past few weeks, and it's a law on prisoners and prisoners that predicts the evacuation of those who are too sick to survive their own lives. Now, why did we get this law? I mean, now, he's leaving the doctor's office, the coroner's office can't make an appointment in 45 days. So, let's say forensics put it in two months, three months later. Is that even possible? What happens if this guy dies? Now, it takes him a day to go to forensics, and then the next thing you know, it's still gonna take him a day to report back. Now, Mr. Secretary, it's all right, but you can't interfere with this forensics? I'm worried about him. Please, take care of the illegality there, and it's obvious it's a special occasion. Please, I want him to fix this. I mean, it's a human matter, a matter of rights, a right to live, a right to life, a right to life, whether he's a prisoner or a prisoner, that's guaranteed by the state. Just because a man is under arrest doesn't mean he's lost his ability to be human. I'm bringing this to your attention, and I believe you'll figure it out. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0185par0150	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0186par0151	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-04-17sit05spe0185par0152	Yes, I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
