tbmm-2013-03-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement is from Eskişehir MP Salih Koca, a member of the Eskişehir MP who wants to mention that Eskişehir is the Turkish Capital of Culture in 2013. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are living in four seasons together in my country, winter and spring and summer. In the eyes of mothers, I have seen beauty, pride, and spring, and sometimes joy in young faces. I also know the times when the faces fade when the season blooms. But spring must be the season of hope. Spring is the season of hope for the last ten years that we wake up in peace. And I would like to begin by celebrating the feast of Nevruz, the hope and excitement of spring for you and your precious representatives of my country. For our Eskişehir, 2013 and this spring have a special significance. Our city represents our country in 2013 with two titles: the Turkish World Cultural Capital and the UNESCO Capital of Non-Semutial Cultural Heritage, which highlights developments in tourism, industry, culture, art, transport, education and health. Therefore, our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Co-ordinating Council, our Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ and Besir Atalay. On behalf of our city, our National Education Minister Professor Professor Dr. Nabi Avcı Hodja, our successor and predecessors, our ministers of culture, our Council of Ministers, our opposition MPs and members of the government, who, in a unanimous vote, made this law pass through our General Assembly, and on behalf of our city. The Turkish World Capital of Culture (Turkish World) represents a bridge that is as important in a diplomatic sense as it is in a cultural sense. The more traffic on this bridge, the stronger your communication with other nations is. In this sense, studies under the heading of the Capital of Culture have given a country a great chance to express itself to the world and to consolidate the present peace and security environment using cultural diplomacy. Today, our country continues with Eskişehir. This time, the story of our nation's contribution to world civilisations is told by Eskişehir. As we tell the world about our culture, the main theme of events has been the migration. The migration had been our way of life for centuries, affecting our language, our words, our poems. So, our story will be told with this theme. 2013, Turkey and Eskişehir will be the year of interconnecting, mixing cultural activities with permanent works that will not be erased from memory. The heart of the Turkish world will beat in Eskişehir. In addition, Eskişehir will remind you once again that we, UNESCO, as the Capital of Unsubstantiated Cultural Heritage, have maintained our traditions for centuries, are the loyal guardians of the legacy of humanity and civilization. Eskişehir has won the first democratic rally of the Republic of Turkey by bringing up hearts such as Şişar Bey, Sinan Pasha, Aziz Mahmoud Hüdai, or hosting them, including silver, silver, luletin, glass, aesthetic meaning, and the first democratic rally of the Republic of Turkey. This project will allow brothers and sisters who have been suspended from each other for years because of iron curtains to be rehabilitated. This project will help strengthen the ties of the family members who were forced to emigrate with their father's stoves, make sure that their history, customs, customs, and customs are not forgotten. The official opening of Eskişehir Turkish World Cultural Capital activities will be held on March 23rd with the participation of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the head of our nation. On this day of spring's hope, enthusiasm and excitement, I welcome you precious MPs to the Turkish World Cultural Capital, Eskişehir, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0003par0024	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement is owned by Malatya MP Ömer Faruk Öz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs for Turkish World and Community Week. I hereby salute your high council. Our state, the carrier of a long history and a great civilization, aims to maintain the most intense relations with communities with which we share common culture and emotion in different geographys, with a sense of responsibility on their shoulders. For this purpose, the work and the role of TİKA (TİKA) is quite significant. In Thessaloniki, the legal status of our historical monuments is being established, identified, renovated, and established in Turkmenistan from the house of Ali Reza to the tomb of Alparslan. Until our government reaches the balances of the practice from Albania to Kerkuk, from the Turkish republics of Central Asia to the Turks and relatives living in Europe and Africa, it has taken over everything. Although they are not Turkish with humanitarian assistance and various supports, they are preaching our voice to African countries, to the Near East, to Asia, and to the region, doing what it is necessary to be the region's force. Again, in the same way, it was established by our government to take care of our citizens and relatives abroad. This presidency also has all kinds of connections to our citizens all over the world, and has been conducting cultural and social studies, as well as providing all kinds of support to our students who are studying abroad. It's very flattering to see all this. As we have seen in the study of the Friendship Group for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and in the study of the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkish Languages, the Turkish world's views and expectations for the Republic of Turkey are highly appreciated and highly appreciated. In the 21st century of the Republic of Turkey, valued lawmakers have moved themselves to a position among the world's largest, number-one economies, while political power and international say-all have risen equally. At the end of the century in Central Asia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, slowly completed the challenges of independence and reconstruction over the years, and they continue to operate on their feet and on their own in a stable state. The Turkish world is on the eve of becoming a great force under Turkey's leadership, not by words of portership, but by works full of actions, with permanent and sustainable projects. In these days, we also celebrate the anniversary of the Canakkale Sea Victory. If we look at where 250,000 of our fallen soldiers came from in Çanakkale and what ethnic identity they have, we can better understand our relatives. If we don't forget the Chanakkale spirit, what it's fighting for, we'll solve some minor problems. The soldiers who fought side by side in Çanakkale, shared the water in his canteen, covered each other's wounds were Turkish, Arab, Kurdish, Çerkek, Bosnian, and Turkmen. Today we have martyrs on Jordan's land, martyrs on Yemen's land, martyrs on Algerian soil. There are Palestinians, Iraqis, Syrian martyrs in Çanakkale. There are martyrs from Albania, Bulgaria, in Erzurum. All for the sake of the country, all for the sake of the flag, for the sake of the word. Praise be to God, today we take possession of the memory of all this work and realize that we are brothers with their sons, that we are related. With that understanding, we are in the National Assembly of Turkey, which brings peace and peace to its territory. On behalf of all Malatians, descendants of Battalgazi, the legendary hero of the Turkish world, I congratulate you on the holiday of Nevruz, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0005par0038	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Istanbul's MP Melda Onur, who asked for World Forestry Day.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0006par0042	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm sorry that I missed this lovely raw dumpling party because of the off-the-top agenda. I'm an Eskişehir-born citizen. I'm not from Eskişehir, but I'm from Eskişehir. By the way, I'm celebrating Eskişehir. Something good happened. In fact, the location was Earth Forest Day, Earth Water Day, and a little bit about this month of March, the rebirth of spring that corresponds to these days. Spring started about an hour and a half ago, according to the equinox. You know, these days, it's Earth Forest Day tomorrow, the next day, Earth Water Day. In fact, this spring is a day in the chain. It's celebrated all over the world in the northern hemisphere. I wanted to take this opportunity to tell you a little bit about the forest, about the water, but to tell you the truth, we're still fresh tomorrow, and I lost a colleague I loved so much 21 years ago, Izzet Gezer. He was shot in the head, killed. He's a journalist who's been murdered in cold blood. I honor him on this occasion. Now, I told you, the forest is water. However, before we cross the forest and the water, I condemn the attack on the AKP today, something that shouldn't have happened. Our interior ministers -- old and new -- are here. There'll be a thorough investigation of this matter. Terror, yes, we have it in our country, it comes from a lot of places, but please, don't make it an excuse for terrorism, and don't make it an operation on all opposing parties, because it's in the spirit of time, so that it doesn't go in different directions to expose some terrorist organization. We condemn it from here again and say we'll keep an eye on the developments. Now, when we say forest and water, let's celebrate jungle day, let's celebrate water day. If our minister were here, I'd like to celebrate his 2/B day and HES day, because we, unfortunately, when you say forest, 2/B, water comes to mind, hydropower plants, you know. Now, unfortunately, our forests are crying, our streams are drying -- we say it every time -- and it's bleeding. In the coming days, there's a law of conservation and biodiversity that's eye-opening our remaining forests. You know, the law of conservation over nature. We wish he'd get a commission before this law gets here. We'll have our demands in that direction. I'd like to talk to you about some recent developments in HES. Now, the apocalypse broke in Tortum, where we weren't beaten for a tiny HES, we weren't sued, we weren't left people. We've heard recently that it's been abandoned there, canceled. Well, what about the ruins there, the waste there, the loot there, that's what I'm asking now. I was at Adana last week. That's where it all happens, guys. There is an incredible HES project on the Seyhan River and on the land in the region. If you calculate, I've looked at the square kilometers of all the basins, a HES is falling 100 square kilometers in this country, so when you look at it as a basin, it's a little bit smaller than Chankaya. Now, you're going to say, does that happen, or does that rate? Yeah, it's proportional, it's proportional if you put handcuffs on the creeks. When I say handcuffs, I'll tell you something else. Yesterday, in the Ergenekon case, 37.7 per cent of the witness listening rate, 37.7 per cent of the justice, many are tried to be handcuffed with aggravated life sentences. 37.7 per cent of the justice is this: Only 37 per cent of witness listening has been made. From here, this verdict has not been passed, and I invite these prosecutors to reconsider their views. Friends, as they said yesterday: "What do they eat and drink?" It takes ten years to write down the 10,000 pages of indictments that make these judgments. It takes two years to write 2,000 pages. What do the friends who write them eat, what do they drink? It's obvious what we eat, what we drink, but what does this mind eat, what does it eat, who writes these things, who put handcuffs on the rivers, who put handcuffs on the opponents of this country? That's what I want to know. By the way, before I break my words, I also condemn our ban on bringing citizens to the council stand and having a press conference. I don't know if you're in, Mr Muharrem Ence, but I condemn this decision, and we'll fight it. Thank you all for listening.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0007par0054	On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ will respond to non-responsibility talks. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0008par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. I would like to welcome you to respond on behalf of the government to the talks made by our off-the-top lawmakers regarding the Turkish World Cultural Capital and the Turkish world. Dear lawmakers, our government continues its work towards the Turkish world with great care, with great care and all its dimensions. From the day we took over, historical steps have taken place in the Turkish world, making changes. The declaration of Eskişehir is one of the works of the Turkish World Cultural Capital. Earlier, as you know, a legal study of the Turkish Turkish World Cultural Capital has also been carried out in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and has been adopted in Parliament. A committee on this is continuing its work on this capital. On the 23rd, the beginning of the participation of our Prime Minister will also be given in Eskişehir. Of course, when we look at what the studies of the Turkish world are, I think it's a good idea to go back a little bit. The EC PARTY has taken significant steps in the process since its power. One of them was to establish the Union of Turkish World municipalities. The Turkish World Councils Association was established to establish brotherhood relations among Turkish municipalities, to co-operate on municipal projects, work, information and project solidarity, share, share cultural events, and build new bridges through the cities of the Turkish world, and have taken considerable distances from its work. It is not only the municipalities of the Turkish noble states, but also the municipalities of the countries who are related to them that are developing and taking important steps. Again, at this time the Turkish Council of the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries was established. Of course, a very important council is an important and historic step towards developing co-operation and solidarity among Turkish-speaking countries, the Council of Turkish-speaking countries, founded by Turkey's participation in Turkey, Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzistan. There are now some Turkish republics who are not members of this council, and we wish that in time they would become members of this council, and that they would include their own knowledge and experience in working together. The secretary of the Turkish Council is in Istanbul. Again, the Turkish Academy was established within this scope. The centre of the Turkish Academy is in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan. There's a big library being built. Large studies are being carried out on Turkish history, Turkish culture, Turkish language and all Turkish values, big projects are being implemented, and we see that the Turkish Academy is doing a historical task, a function for academics in the Turkish world to work together, to work together, to develop projects together, to make scientific steps together, and thus to increase the cultural partnerships that exist in the Turkish world, to increase our partnerships. In particular, we believe that studies on language, studies on history, studies on architecture, studies on music, and many other issues are very significant and important to the present and future for Turkish world to take from the past to the present and the achievements of these partnerships. On the other hand, at this time, we established the Turkish Council of Turkey's Parliamentary Assembly, such as Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has implemented inter-parliamental solidarity between Turkish-speaking countries. Thus, the first steps to co-work were taken between legislation and control activities and the Turkish world. Azerbaijan is also the secretary of this. So we've implemented institutional structures all over the Turkish world that are both in the field of legislation, both in scientific terms, culturally, and in many different areas that concern them, 24 hours on academic levels and other dimensions, which are very, very important historical steps. Again, we took another step, the Yunus Emre Foundation was founded. Within the Yunus Emre Foundation, the Yunus Emre Turkish cultural centers have been established, and so far we've been operating in 35 different places, the Yunus Emre Turkish cultural centers. In other countries, we continue to work hard to engage. Yunus Emre Turkish cultural centers will perform and perform important functions at the point of promoting Turkish culture, at the point of promoting Turkish history, at the point of teaching and promoting Turkish language. Turkish education is taught in every country in which it is located. He took a step that burned the lamps of Turkish in 35 different cities around the world, so that he could teach the Turkish citizens and relatives and those who wanted to learn Turkish from the Turkish community. The Yunus Emre Foundation, on the other hand, is creating large libraries in the Turkish cultural centers of Yunus Emre. Books that reflect Turkish history, Turkish culture and values of our nation and civilization will be found in libraries, and in that country, those who want to learn Turkish culture, Turkish history, Turkish civilization, will find access to them firsthand, from the first sources, with the right resources, with the right information. Again, through this foundation, conferences, seminars, panels are organized to describe Turkish history, culture, civilization and other features in the countries in which the foundation is based and other countries. Here, we have scientists who specialize in Turkey in their fields, and by inviting expert scientists around the world, the authorities of the issue perform important functions on the accurate description of Turkish language, Turkish history, Turkish culture, and civilization. This is also a very meaningful and important task in the destruction of false assessments of the Turk, prejudices about our civilization, and misunderstandings about our culture. So I sincerely congratulate the Yunus Emre Foundation and all my friends who served in this foundation. They're really doing great, and they're gonna keep throwing. For years, Turkey has had American Culture, British Culture, Italian Culture, German Culture. From there, people get information about this culture. Why don't our people abroad have a Turkish cultural center? Why did they complain that there were no institutions of ours that taught and taught about our culture in the first hand? Now, Turkey -- thank God -- has an institution everywhere that describes Turkish culture, history, civilization, firsthand and correctly. In every country we can reach in the years to come, we will continue to take decisive steps that define this culture, this civilization, this language, this history, from the right hand, from the right mouth. Dear lawmakers, one of the important and historical steps in this sense is the establishment of the presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad, according to us. Foreign Turks and relatives have always been on the agenda of the Republic of Turkey, the Foreign Ministry has carried out extensive studies on these issues, and other institutions of our state have conducted studies on them. It's a messy work structure. In the prime minister's office, there were structures at a prime minister's counsel level that were co-ordinated on these issues. But in the institutional dimension, it is unfortunately not built in Turkey, a institutional structure that deals only with our citizens, relatives, and relatives living abroad. In 2010, under a law passed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys was formed. The first goal of this presidency, the most important goal, wherever we have a citizen in the world, wherever we have a family member in the world, where we have a relative in the world, Turkey is at his side without hesitation, worrying about their problems, creating solutions to their problems, if they need solutions in Turkey, is to implement these solutions in the hands of the Turkish Government and the Turkish Grand National Assembly. If solutions are needed by the governments of the countries living, by their parliaments, by other management units, then bringing them up in bilateral talks, intergovernmental talks, and providing solutions to the relevant countries. It's to make our citizens, our relatives, wherever they are, feel that there's a strong economy and state structure behind them all the time and always see that power behind them, see it in front of them, see it in front of them. In this sense, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys is making important efforts to create the right solutions to the education problems of our citizens living abroad, to learn Turkish language problems, to learn the language of the country they live in, to face discrimination in their employment, to deal with religious problems, Islamofobya, discrimination, racism, and so on, and to contribute to the development of the culture of living together in the countries that live together. There are hundreds of NGOs that our citizens, relatives, and relatives who live abroad today. There is also a serious lack of coordination among these NGOs. Together, we take important steps to develop the NGOs' ability to act together and to develop capacity enhancement of NGOs at the point of co-fighting problems. We say the same thing to the NGOs that we see, whatever NGO we say, we say the same thing to the other one. I'd like to share our thoughts from here, under the roof of the High Assembly once again and speak from here. The NGOs that our citizens have established abroad are truly successful organizations. Over the years, we had NGOs who carried the color of every policy there, and they will continue to be. However, while our NGOs are struggling to save Turkey, to ensure that the policies that fit their ideology will come to power in Turkey, to ensure that the municipalities will come to power, to put our own children's future at risk in the countries they live in. So we say that NGOs can have different political approaches. There are parties representing those approaches in Turkey, they are already working, they will work. At the time of the vote, our citizens can vote for any party they want, deal with it. But if there is discrimination against us in Germany, France, Austria, the Netherlands, we must all fight against this discrimination together. If there are subjective applications for our children's failure in education, we need to fight against it together. If we have problems with political participation, we have to fight it together. If there are so many rights violations of human rights, if there are any, the Turkish NGOs must be in cooperation and solidarity wherever they are to eliminate these rights violations. It's of no use to the people we represent or to the people we represent, as long as we're competing, trying to steal members from each other, or we're walking with understandings that are hostile to each other. So, together, we're going to deal with common problems; together, we're going to side by side against the problems we've been through. And when we're together, it's very clear that we'll have power and strength in every country that lives, that many possibilities will change in a positive way for our people. In this sense, we see significant changes in Turkish NGOs. I hereby thank all NGOs, their presidents, their administrations, and their members because a common understanding of fighting the problems together, a common commitment now began to be shared and implemented by all the NGOs created by the Turks, and it will continue after that. Of course, as we have students studying on Turkish scholarships in Turkey, we have many students who are sent abroad on their own. We have thousands of students. We're taking steps, we're doing studies, and at this point, we're trying. We are also involved in an approach abroad that detects all of Turkey's potential wherever we have people, wherever we have NGO, where we have scientists, sports people, where we have structures in other areas. We're also conducting extensive studies that show up where we have what we have, who knows it, who have established policies for it, and we're going to keep doing it. Of course, during this period, we also did a configuration in TİKA. While the TİKA was initially a work-only in Central Asia, we took steps towards the Balkans, and then towards all the world's countries in distress and hardship. WHEN we took over the government in 2002, it operated with 12 coordination offices, while today, with 35 coordination offices, it operates in more than 106. We're taking some pretty important steps. We're doing projects all over the world, we're taking hundreds of steps in our nation. In 2011, the number of projects carried out in the areas where TİKA (TİKA) was only 1,473. The number of projects carried out from 92 (2002) to 2002 is 2.241. Today, TİKA is doing projects all over the world, and with these projects, it continues to address the needs of our people and our relatives there, and to help citizens, and those who are not our citizens, and those who are not our relatives, and those who are in trouble. The projects are in the Caucasus and Central Asia, the Balkans, and the Middle East and Africa. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0009par0077	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Aydın, you have a request.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0010par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. As an AK PARTY group, we celebrate the 21st of March World Forestry Day. As it is known, global warming and climate change are at the beginning of the most important things that threaten our world. One of the most important reasons is the destruction of the forest. Today, the measurable benefits and functional benefits of the forests are called the green economy. Forests are described as life support for all living creatures on earth. Turkey is among the countries that have significantly increased forest presence in the 2012 World Forest Report. In 1973, our presence in the forest, 20.2 million hectares, reached 21.1 million hectares in 2004 and 21.7 million hectares in 2012. So from 1973, our forest presence has increased by 1.5 million hectares. In the last decade, we have increased our plant production by six times, raising our production of 170 million in 2003 to 470 million in 2012. We've distributed 120 million free saplings to our people. The source transferred to the forest village has been increased fourfold. In 2003, $335 million was transferred, and in 2012, we transferred $1.27 million. We continue to support forest villagers and forest co-ops. The financial value of subsidies to forest villagers, their co-ops, increased to $225 in 2002, when it was 92 million in 2002. On this occasion, I would like to thank you for the blessing of March 21st, World Forestry Day.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0011par0086	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Yilmaz and Mr. Atalay, you have your demands, but in non-responsive conversations, my application is clear, I can't promise. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly By identifying the problems in the field of health care in Kars, we propose and establish the requirements for the opening of the Parliament's investigation of the Constitution, the 98th, the 104th, and 105th Articles of the Civil Code, in order to determine the measures taken to ensure the complete and quality services of health institutions. Kars is one of the most troubled cities in the field of health care. The lack of physical equipment of health institutions, the lack of doctors and medical staff, is the leading problem. Twenty-three years ago, Kars was brought to the province of Kars from the surrounding provinces, while today, the interstate bus line has only become a carrier of patients. Most medical equipment is not available in public hospitals and other health institutions that serve in the province. Patients are often referred to other cities, especially Erzurum, except for their mild illness. In the province where winter is long and harsh, patients travel for hours on passenger buses, stuck in the road. The people of Kars are screaming to save us from this persecution. It's not hard to imagine what it's like for patients to be tortured when even healthy people can barely take three or four hours of travel. None of the institutions serving in the city center are a full-fledged hospital. The Kars State Hospital, which serves in Kars Province, usually uses patients as a way to receive a standing-up examination. The majors and departments are very few. The situation in the emergency room is extremely severe. The number of beds is very low, and in the exam section, patients are prescribed on their feet, and most of the patients are given IVs on their feet. Since the number of beds is low, sometimes two patients have to share a bed, children are admitted by twos and threes. Since the number of doctors is inadequate, the doctor often does not prescribe medications by asking the patient a few questions standing up in cases of common illness, such as imaging, analysis, and so on. None of the districts, including the city centre, have a full-fledged hospital. Under the estimated number of doctors employed at community health centres in the districts, and nearly all of the doctors employed as family physicians are practitioners. The number of doctors in the districts is extremely inadequate, and medical institutions do not have the simplest medical equipment. Patients are usually treated by Kars coming to the station, MRI, CT, etc. Appointments are set for months from now. Health care for women is extremely limited. Most women hide their diseases because they can't read or write or express themselves to the doctor alone in Turkish. Women don't have a full-fledged women's disease hospital where they can find a solution to health problems in a comfortable environment. Children are often referred to Erzurum for their illness. In villages, the situation is more serious. Most of Kars central and county villages do not have a community health centre. In places previously called a health clinic, the doctor was never held for any period. The midwives are usually employed around here, but soon they are sent to other provinces. The public is helpless in the face of health problems in villages. It's often impossible for women to give birth in a hospital environment. Most of the health clinics in the villages are thrown out and closed. For more effective and quality health care to be provided in Kars province, a parliamentary study is required to be launched to address the issues immediately and to address them. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In view of the conditions and degrees of the prisoners in prison who have been seriously ill, the Constitution is 98. And your index is 104 and 105. We demand and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. According to the official data of the General Directorate of Prisons and Courthouses in the Ministry of Justice, a total of 943 sick prisoners and prisoners were killed in prisons from 2000 (to 2011). In 2010 alone, the number of prisoners and prisoners who died of illness found 161. In 2011, the number of prisoners who died in prisons finally reached 31. The lack of medical equipment of criminal execution institutions or medical equipment, the problems caused by procedures in hospital transports of prisoners, the torture of arrivals to hospitals, the absence of prison wards or the absence of placement of official health institutions, and the lack of diagnosis and treatments of patients in prisons have caused an irreversible health problem in inmates. The ECHR ruled that it was considered torture if punishments were carried out in prison for prisoners who were late in diagnosis and treatment and delayed in implementing legal legislation on their rights. The Council of Europe Committee for the Protection of Torture in 2010 states that those with a serious illness that cannot be treated well in the conditions of the prisoners and prisoners in prison should not remain in the prison conditions of those with severe mental illness, those with severe mental illness, and those in short-term terminal conditions. The procedures for reporting and treatment of sick prisoners in Turkish prisons have been transformed into torture by competent institutions, and the Forensic Medical Association is often drawn to patients in a political manner rather than in accordance with professional rules. The Coroner's Office has lost its credibility and neutrality due to its inhuman and unconscionable decisions about Guler Zere, Ali Çeft, Ismet Ablak and many other prisoners who were on their deathbed awaiting their freedom. The prisoner, Gülay Cetin, died in Antalya Prison because of an advanced stomach and ovarian cancer, and then died in the hospital where he was removed from his stomach due to a severe stomach and ovarian cancer. The expert and expert should be conducted by independent institutions, which must act completely objectively and scientifically without having political and social concerns. It is known that the President has the authority to forgive and that he recently used it for four sick prisoners. Although political prisoners have numerous applications on this subject, however, the president has voiced suspicion that double standards have been applied among prisoners by pardoning judicial prisoners. In accordance with national and international legal regulations, institutions that fail to carry out their responsibility are committing crimes for humanity. For the resolution of this subject, which has turned into a human shame, we demand and demand that parliamentary research be opened in order to ensure that prisoners with serious health problems in prisons will be suspended, meet their loved ones and friends in their final days. [[Mersin]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to assess the situation of the victims of the earthquake that had to migrate to Mersin after the earthquake in Van Goshen, the Constitution is 98. And your index is 104 and 105. We demand and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. On 23 October-9 November 2011, an earthquake occurred at the centre of Ercish and Van caused massive loss of life and property. The government's lack of late response to the earthquake, the lack of assistance in the distribution of aid, and the lack of measures in the winter conditions made it impossible for the Vanish earthquake survivors to live in the harsh conditions of winter, especially after the second earthquake. The victims of the earthquake had to take care of themselves, leaving Van (A) in a mass manner. Mersin is the head of the cities where families of the Van earthquake victims have to migrate most. A total of 2,180 families (13,933 people) have applied for assistance from 14/11/2011-09/12/2011 to the disaster coordination crisis table, which includes several civil organisations within the Mediterranean municipality. Mersin Governorate is not interested in other earthquake victims, except in providing shelter at the Ministry of Interior and April 23rd facilities for 1,500 people on the list sent by Van Governorate. It's a problem when the governorate families leave the facility. They are unable to receive close friends and relatives who visit them in their homes at the facilities. But they have to meet at the outer gate. We live in a camp of earthquake victims, and they cause speech. Also among the students at Atakent High School and Rasim Elementary School, where the earthquake victims studied, we don't want you here, this practice that has become widespread, and this discrimination statement later led to the attack of six victims in high school. In schools, we don't want children who are depressed. The increase in their rhetoric has caused earthquake-ridden families not to send their children to schools or send them away in a state of anxiety. Families positioned at public facilities have reported that they have received threats from executives in charge of the facility, who inform the press and NGOs. Earthquake victims are suffering from complete withdrawal syndrome. The Mediterranean municipality and partially subservient foods are exhausted. Rental aid for victims of earthquakes, electric water and so on. Aids are not given on many grounds. It is said that the head of the family cannot be helped on the grounds that he is a member of the USSR or BUG-KUR. The families who have applied to Mersin Governorate and to the Governorates are rejected by saying that you are not on the lists sent by the governorship of Van. The list Van sent to Mersin Governorate contains only 2,000 people. Not only in Mersin, but the problems of the earthquake victims who are still staying in Van, or who have been scattered throughout many cities of the country, have fallen off the public agenda. Earthquake survivors struggling to survive under heavy winter conditions began to reduce relief, almost as if the earthquake victims were abandoned to their own fates. For this reason, we demand and demand that parliamentary research be opened to determine the current conditions of the victims who had to migrate to Mersin after the earthquake in Van. [[Mersin]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Hakkari]] The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday, 20,03,2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. In the process of privatisation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 28.02.2013 by Adana MP Turgay Develi and 23 MPs, there has been some misappropriation in the process of privatisation of the Privatisation Administration Chairmanship of Turkey, and as a result of these practices, the public has suffered major damage and the Court reports have shown these issues for the purpose of investigating the Council Research Council (748 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of their talks in the Wednesday (April 20,03,2013). In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Turgay Develi, Adana MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0012par0266	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group. The President of the Privatisation Administration, in a sense, has brought down the economic foundations of the nation's state, by selling all the values that Turkey has saved since the Republic, even in the pre-Republic period, in a way, in a way, as a means of speaking. You know, the privatisation policy in our country is that financial capital can be added to global finance for those with capital savings. In the ten-year-old AK PARTI rule, all of which, in the ten-year period of political political parties, has produced value, even before, even with institutions left of the Ottoman Empire -- during the Republic era, all of which, in turn, have been withdrawn, along with its foreign-source partners in the private sector, with questionable tenders, so to speak. The latest example is the events that took place during the privatisation of 21 distribution companies of TEDAS. During the privatisation of TEDAS's distribution companies, the President of the Privatisation Administration first sold distribution companies with privatisation laws 3046, 3096, then 4046. Lastly, a few days ago, four or five more were sold, 21 companies were completely sold out. Such strange events are taking place that the President of the Privatisation Administration, in these sales -- despite reports from the court inspectors, despite reports from the review board -- has identified irregularities, abuses, the institutions of the state, yet the President of the Privatisation Administration, to destroy them, to ignore them, to assume them, if the phrase is, flip 50,000. Within just six months, the number of regulations sent to TEDAS and TEDAS inspectors by the Privatisation Administration probably exceeds five-six. He's trying to give instructions to the review board, to the inspectors, to the court inspectors, to interpret this law as follows, and to interpret it this way. Their powers were not enough, the Court inspectors resisted, audit board reports were published, so the Court's authority, therefore, was taken to the Court's -- to disable the inspection board's inspections -- was transferred to private companies to oversee private distribution companies. So they're trying to get rid of the abuses, the irregularities in the middle, the detected irregularities, by transferring them to another review board, private control companies, to lose them, that's the mentality. The middle case is very clear; the privatisation of 11 distribution companies has been cut and pasted, irregularities detected. Last week, the Minister of Energy was here, and we asked him with his history, why don't you give us these reports, and why do you keep them? I'll give you whatever you want, and I'll explain all the documents. Despite what he said, he didn't say a word about it. I am now renewing the review board's report on Meram and Firat Electrics, although it was requested by the CSI Commission -- although I wanted it there -- was not given. Now, in the presence of the public, I ask the Ministry of Energy to hand over these reports to me, and I want them publicly, publicly audited. If you have nothing to hide, if you have nothing to hide, give me these reports. We're not gonna let you vapourize it by transferring it to private control companies. These privatisation stories, the privatisation lies of the Justice and Development Party, can't be monitored enough by the public because the public has not discussed the real agenda. Friends, in the past week, we will all be witnessing how the privatisation of State Railways has been transformed into an anonymous company, and in the coming days, how it has been eliminated by turning it over to the Privatisation Administration again after a while. The Justice and Development Party is subcontracting global capital in Turkey. The state's savings, the public's savings, the TELEKOM, then TEDASHI, tomorrow, privatising and selling the State Railways, and later getting caught doing so, trying to hide, hide, hide, hide, and cover up the irregularities of public officials, public institutions, politicians. This nation, this state, whatever value this nation has saved is being looted during the AK PARTY. When we say these things, this is the mentality of the CHP. You didn't nail this country. Why are you talking? These documents are present as proof of the political impotence of the original EC PARTY.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0013par0271	It suits you!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0014par0272	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0012par0273	Politically, these documents are clearly required to be discussed in public, to go to court, and to be judged by those responsible. Privatisation, privatisation law...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0015par0274	What do you mean, weak?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0016par0275	Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0017par0276	Mr. Develi, I'm warning you under Article 67 of the Civil Code. Please speak in a clean language, please.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0018par0277	You know what political ignorance means, and we know what it means. Don't do this, don't do this. Now, under the name privatisation, I'd like to place the workers at PTT...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0019par0279	Learn your wisdom first!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0020par0280	The Prime Minister told us.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0021par0281	That's what he said.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0022par0282	I spoke the Prime Minister's words, my friends, and your Prime Minister's words.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0020par0283	We're just returning it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0022par0284	I'm being polite again. I didn't say you're non-privilegal, I said you're politically incompetent. These are the words of your Prime Minister. Leave them alone. Under the name of privatisation lies, there's also the unsecured release of workers. Turkey's Justice and Development Party, now a subsidiary of the capital market, which ends trade unionism in Turkey, ends the organised struggle, ends capital market, ends its business, and turns it into an anonymous company with its employees, as well as 35, 40,000 people, whose future is very bright, into the hands of the capital's own capital, and then turns it over to the President of the Privatisation Administration, and delivers it into the hands of the capital, which is the head of Turkey's most profitable institutions. The President of the Privatisation Administration is also the triggerman of all operations and practices. There's nothing clean about any of his bids. And when he is caught by all his work, when he is captured by the inspectors, by the court inspectors, he tries to make laws, pressure them, to take them off the agenda, to hide them. Therefore, we would like to request a parliamentary investigation of the President of the Privatisation Administration for reasons we consider above. Let them be discussed openly in public, and let them be spoken to. We want these practices of the Justice and Development Party to be seen clearly by citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0023par0289	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Nihat Zeybekci, Denizli MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0024par0293	Mr. President, has the Prime Minister used those words before, and have you given him a clear warning?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0023par0294	Sir, what concerns me is the words spoken from the council bench. The speech of each member of the general president is his own business.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0024par0295	You're only interested in the MPs.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0296	Mr. President, the most respected members of the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0024par0297	I want to pick on you a little bit, but you're not coming.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0298	I have made a pledge against the Parliamentary research motion on the privatisation of TEDAS. I hereby salute your high council. By the way, before I begin my words, I believe that yesterday in Ankara, the sad princes of darkness of a period, which we believe to be the final struggles of the dark forces of a period, are here to condemn Turkish politics, hopefully their final struggle. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are here to discuss whether the procedures for the privatisation of TEDAS are correct or wrong in the process of privatisation, of course the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the highest institution of politics in this country, the holiest institution of politics; the highest institution in which the will of the nation is spoken, discussed, and discussed. Politicians in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are the most reliable people, including all political party members. Here, unfortunately, on this sacred platform of the House, we saw a member of parliament -- shortly before that -- on this beautiful bench of the nation -- with regret about two weeks ago -- saying that public employees were honest, politicians in the Turkish Grand National Assembly were dishonest. As I said at the beginning of my remarks here, should or should not be privatized be the issue of Turkey's Grand National Assembly? With an institution such as privatisation, it's made with a logic like privatisation: As you know, in Turkey -- it's certainly not possible to call it a proverb, it's not possible to see it as the right word, but it's said that -- the state's property is a sea, a pig that doesn't eat. If something belongs to the government, it makes it normal to steal it from everyone in this country, anyone in this country who has bad intentions, to beat it, to abuse it, to pursue it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0026par0304	Why should it be normal?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0305	Look, valued lawmakers, in Turkey the state has no cars, the state has no buildings, the state has no money, the state has no land, the state has no officials; everything belongs to the nation. If we say so, it all belongs to the nation. If we say so, then the nation's place of self-interest is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0026par0306	Right. You're in power.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0307	So the state, if you call it the state, if you give it to an abstract identity like the state, has found some things, and that is the wrong word for it. I'll tell you what, you're all almost out of business. And you all know how to do business. If he was in the private sector, if one company was in favor of another company, the company that bought it would buy it with its debts, its debts, its commitments to the past, and all its obligations to the future. So in the privatisations of TEDAS, these practices are subject to special law. What would be left to the company from the moment of privatisation -- what would be left to the company from the moment of the transfer -- in the pool, in the bank accounts, in their dealerships, in TEDAS -- until that day, the purchases in people he sold electricity to, the purchases in whom he sold services were clearly described, and a privatisation process of approximately $12 billion, 700 million in all times was performed. In the seventh month of 2008, all transfers have been carried out in this way. It is determined who must have what, delay interest, tax revenues, how much of what the company will receive will be transferred to TEDASH, or treasure. If there's something that needs to be done here, if there's an app that needs to be done here, if there's something wrong -- who can be wrong, people can be abused, things can be missed, things can be missed -- of course, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- as I said at the beginning of my promises -- everything must be said, but it's to be confiscated by the institutions involved in the criminal complaint.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0026par0309	You've removed court control, brother!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0310	...and it's done by them as well. If there are Court reports...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0027par0311	That's the point where you keep the reports.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0312	...which there are certainly Court reports about, and the Court reports can never, ever be eliminated, and nothing can be eliminated in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0027par0313	That's right!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0314	Everything that's been done here by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including the most secret sessions, comes when the day comes.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0028par0315	It'll all come out.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0316	That's why they're all being carried out.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0029par0317	One at a time!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0318	Look, you know what the real intention is? What we wouldn't do if we were in charge of these institutions.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0030par0319	That's right, we wouldn't have done what you did.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0031par0320	We certainly wouldn't have done what you did.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0321	...what we would not do if we were in charge of the highways, TEDASH, the Ministry of Energy, what we would not do if we were in charge of them.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0030par0322	Not the way you took it, that's for sure!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0323	I'm coming from inside this. We're coming through this. Look, we've been mayor for seven years, we've been mayor for seven years, privatizing all our transactions, such as cleaning jobs, transport, transportation. Thank God you have all the documents in your hands, and you have enough staff. There's not a single case that's been filed against us, there's not a single negative report that's been held on us -- we've been audited, we've been audited by property, we've been audited by local governments.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0032par0324	You're discharging the prosecutor.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0325	What would you do if you did? You'd make this world miserable. Look, I'll tell you this: this fight, the main thing that's going on here, is that you're homesick. You're saying that because we did this in our day... you know, when two blind people sat down, eating olives, one of them said to the other, "Why are you eating two?" Where did you see it? That's what I'm doing. Because you did so in your day, because you knew these practices very well, in your time, look, as you shared these platforms, you shared the SOCs.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0033par0328	What did we do? Tell me, what did we do?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0329	You shared public banks.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0034par0330	You will ask the public banks to the Homeland, to the Right Way.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0331	During the time of you coalitions, in the negotiations of the ministries, which public institution will be assigned to which ministry, which bank will be divided into which ministry, who will be in charge of the ministry...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0035par0332	We did it so you could buy it!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0333	...how to share it, how to attract it, you know that very well.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0035par0334	Don't bother!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0335	And you think we are because you know them so well. You will not find this from Us, nor will you find any immorality from Us, nor will you find any theft from Us, nor will you find any deceit from Us.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0035par0336	Oh, forget it! Mind your own business. Think about what party you're going to tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0337	You've got everything you've got. Look at your past, you'll see it all. You know how he moans about this country in public institutions. This country, this nation, my profession, my ancestor, my mother, my father, my grandfather, knows how to buy hood cloths from black markets.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0036par0339	Oh, war...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0037par0340	Oh, man!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0341	He knows how you get your sugar allocations.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0037par0342	Your father was hiding in the henhouse, in the henhouse. That's what the Prime Minister said. Our fathers were hiding in the henhouse, he said.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0343	But how they gave them to the mayors, how they gave them to the mayors, and how they sold them for money... they're alive, they're still alive, they're not dead, they know that. Look, you know how Sumerbank allocations are, how Iron Steel allocations are, all of that. We will privatise everything that is not strategically important in the hands of the public, not in defense or in national interest, and everything will belong to the nation. We also know it's not your time of war.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0038par0346	You couldn't even get his name. Otherwise you'd be George, Tommy.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0347	Let me tell you this: The late Necdet Calp was on television for the first time with the late Ozal, one of the first political arguments we remember.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0039par0348	You're talking about the merciful Ozal, you're talking about the bank corruption!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0349	The late Ozal said: "I will sell the revenues of the Bull's Bridge"; and Necdet Calp said: "I will not sell it. We will sell it and we will continue to sell it, we will pay the nation, we will go to the nation, we will come to the nation, we will come to us in every election with 50 percent, 55 percent; and you will continue your vicious opposition.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0040par0350	Don't sell the country while you're selling everything!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0351	I salute your high council with these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0041par0353	Mr. President, it's not teasing, I'm also going to respond to bullying, but the sentence is just like this -- let him apologize right now -- you've got it. If he doesn't come and apologize for this sentence... I'm waiting for him. Let him come first, and you have the bad name. Let him mend his words.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0025par0354	I said, if you have any claim on us, you're the son of a bitch.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0041par0355	You're the son of a bitch!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0042par0356	Please, Mr. Slim, please, but...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0041par0357	If you don't fix it...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0042par0358	Please, Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0043par0359	I didn't tell anyone personally.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0041par0360	Come on, fix it!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0043par0361	I'm only saying it because we're being claimed.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0041par0362	Fix it! You'll fix it!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0043par0363	If he's looking for a rascal, let the citizen who told me take a look at him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0041par0365	You're the son of a bitch! I'm returning it to you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0043par0366	Let him look at himself who calls me the no-namus!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit02spe0044par0367	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0044par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0045par0005	Thank you, Mr. President. In the previous session, of course, there were statements and attempts that would be unpleasant. For once, as the AK PARTY Group, we, together, have to run the House with its power, with its opposition, with proper style, with proper language. Here, of course, we will discuss the laws, the bills that people expect of us, and during these talks, the opposition will also have to make the most severe criticism. He's going to do his reviews and we're going to respect those criticisms as a power, of course, but the criticism has to be filled with criticism in its strictest form. No one has the right to insult anyone, the luxury. I'd like to say that it's not right to go into a real situation. No one has the right to deal with anyone, with their dignity, with their dignity, with their dignity, with their offspring, with their staff, and that is not the right thing to do. We all need to pay attention to this style, the ruling-migration, when we're all discussing these laws here, even with the harshest criticisms, we have to respect that in mutual understanding, but please, it's a common call to the ruling lawmakers and opposition lawmakers, and we're all doing business for the nation here, while we're doing business for the people, in the office of style, in the office where they expect us to do business. We are, of course, ready to meet criticism, to respect it, and we have always expressed it. Again, we do not have the right to mutual insults, nor do we have opposition, even when we receive criticism. In that sense, I would really like to express that my special request from our friends is to use proper language, appropriate language, and that we did not approve of both statements just now. No one, no one, has the ability to measure the progeny, the integrity of anyone, in relation to both the inefficiency and especially the concept of chastity. I'm saying I don't think these things are right. And in the future, Mr. President, I humbly thank you, Mr. President, for all of our statements, our language.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0046par0008	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0047par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Develi, a member of our group, I don't mind the fact that he's politically ill-advised, but I don't approve of the word "corruption." Unfortunately, as vice president of the group, it was up to me to correct them. Of course, I'm returning the AKP Group member's word "namusmousism" to him, and I'm even returning it to him with his zakat. And physical attacks, I never find them right. Let's criticize each other, criticize each other as hard as we can, but let's not talk about our bloodlines, our honors. Every man's bloodline is his own. I think that all lawmakers should use a more careful language in these matters, as someone who has been subjected to the harshest criticism in this House in 11 years. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0048par0015	Yes, thank you. Now, the Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favor of the group's proposal, Alim Izmir, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0049par0021	Mr. President, I have made a motion by the Republican People's Party Group on investigating some irregular transactions by the President of the Privatisation Administration during the privatisation process of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of my group, I salute you all. I'll start by saying from this stand that the unpleasant statements that just happened were not really appropriate for our House. Dear MPs, of course, the process of privatisation accelerated in 2003. In particular, the privatisation process on the electric distribution zones of Turkey's Electric Distribution has been accelerated since 2008. Now, when TEDAS is reviewing the missing fugitive rates in distribution areas from 2000 to 2011 -- until 2008, when these privatisations accelerated -- I would like to share with you from the official figures of TEDASH to 14.6 per cent in 2008, while the privatisation was accelerated, as well. The number of missing fugitives in 2008 is 15.6 in 2009; 15.7 in 2010; 16.8 in 2011. However, it is interesting that these rates are higher in the official documents that the Finance Ministry has sent in response to the questions we've submitted regarding the same values. For example, in 2008 -- the same number -- in 2009, according to Finance Ministry records, there were 17.71 per cent of missing fugitives; 15.6% in the TEDAS report. So I'd like to say that there's a cover-up or cover-up that's close to 2%. In 2008, the missing amount of energy that corresponds to this missing fugitive rate is 22.5 billion kilowatts in 2011 -- I'm telling you by official figures -- the amount of missing illegal energy that corresponds to the missing 17 per cent escape is about 35 to 40 billion kilowatts, and we can once again share how important this issue is, for example, when it's $4.5 billion in 2008. Therefore, it is the duty of this great Assembly to go and investigate and find solutions to all the negativity, negligence, corruption, or corruption, no matter who it may be done, no matter what reason it may be, no matter what reason it may be done. Therefore, I find this motion to be a valid motion, and I would like to state that we are in favor of the motion. Dear lawmakers, according to TDAŞ's own official reports, given the sum of eight companies and eight companies that have been privatised and privatisation processes so far, for today's example, the price of electricity reflected to our citizens is 35.70 cents from 20,46 cents on retail sales, a loss of electricity, energy Fund, TRT share, retail sales services, delivery services, delivery costs, delivery costs, as well as additional taxes such as VAT, which are being paid by a small amount of 17 and a small amount of money in retail facilities, which I've already sold a little bit on, and that's what's being paid by you, 2775 cents on the part of the list, and that's what's being paid by the same thing. The actual cost of paying 100 TL is actually $57.3 in the dwellings and $64 in industrial companies. All the payments on it, that's what we're all talking about from time to time, and that's what we're looking for to solve. This is the additional payment on a citizen's back. Dear MPs, I'd like to share the criticism or proposals on this matter with you from the official, relevant auditing agency's report. The report I have here is a 2011 TEDAS report, the Court's report. In the section of the Court's report, I'd like to share with you a number of articles that are also relevant to this research motion. First: The Turkish Parliament is recommended to immediately determine the ready values of the Turkish capital, Sakarya, Osmangazi, Çamlıbel, Uluhuruk, Yeşırmak and Thracian distribution companies at the time of the cycle, including the vault and banks, and to be investigated by the Executive Office for the harm done. According to the 2009 audit report of the Meram Electric Distribution Agency in August and October 2009, the amount of index read in September 2009 was considered to be a source transfer to the buyer's company as a result of a high number of cancellations in September 2009, as well as a review and investigation by the head of the General Directorate of TEDAŞ. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, that number is not a small number. The bank accounts, dated September 30, 2009, amounted to $14,885,242 euros, including the money on the road, but were reported to the TEDAS General Directorate at $4,435,574 euros; it was also reported that the amount of money in the bank rose to $30,280,29 euros in 12 days after the transfer balance. Who identified it? Court inspectors. So, when you sell it to a citizen, there's $4.4 million in the bank. It's called $14,800, and 12 days later, the money goes up to $30 million. Dear lawmakers, what's not to investigate? This money didn't go out of government hands, into people's pockets. He's just expressed himself as a valued MP, and we're selling the state's property to the nation. He said, "We're going to sell it." He said, "This is not a nation, it's a valuable lawmakers; it's an official statement of how an individual in the nation can become rich." Like this, there are reports of irregularities related to the Firat Electric Dispersion Act, on the other hand, about the companies in Menderes EDAŞ and Göksu EDAŞ. Again, it's here that the numbers were seriously manipulated in 2011 in order to reduce technical losses. These things need to be investigated. Investigating these means less money out of a citizen's pocket, less money in a citizen's pocket. On the other hand, again, the problems of the victims of TEDAS privatisations were included in this report. There are many issues such as shortcomings in SGO payments, unfair changes in the positions of some workers, and so on. Let's not go far, I'm just saying that the investigation of irregularities that have been filed into government reports is reason enough to support this motion. With these thoughts and feelings, I say we're in favor of the motion, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0050par0037	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0051par0040	Mr. President, valued MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the opening of the CHP's motion to investigate the privatisation of the CHP Group. I salute your high council and my beloved nation who follow us. Of course, before I begin my words, I strongly condemn yesterday's vicious attack on our headquarters and our Ministry of Justice. Valuable lawmakers, of course, began electricity use in Turkey in 1902 by the private sector, and continued by the public in 1913, and the main, electricity-related investments gained speed with the establishment of Çukurova and Kepez Electricity companies in 1953. Turkey's Electricity Agency was first established in 1970. Later, in 1993, Turkey's Electricity Agency, Turkey's Electricity Production and Turkey's Electric Distribution institutions were split in two, and in later years, Turkey's Power Distribution Agency was divided into 21 regions, creating a more regular structure. After that, of course, distribution companies, manufacturing companies, communications companies are separated. In the CHP group proposal, I will address the issues Mr. Turgay Bey has claimed more often, but first I want to point out that the Turkish Electricity Agency lost $1 billion, 130 million in 2010. What can we do with this? We can probably build about 400 or 500 beds of hospital. That's it, we've got a year's worth of damage, Turkey's getting pretty damaged. The purpose of privatisation here is to eliminate this damage. We're not selling Turkey's electricity companies here anyway, we're turning over the right to operate. How long do we have to turn this over? By 2036, we're handing them over. Of course, what is the main reason why Turkey's Electricity Corporation is hurting? The main reason is: the missing fugitive rates. You're getting 100 units of electricity; in 2000 you're selling 80 units of 100 units of electricity in these 21.6 percent, then around 18 percent, then around 17 percent, and so you're losing 20 units. On the other hand, the TEDAS can't get 100% of all the electricity they're billing, so it takes 85% of the electricity, and then you lose there. So the public is doing a lot of damage. Decisions regarding the privatisation of TEDAS's businesses were made during our administration? No, it wasn't taken during our administration. The privatisation of the first privatised Kayseri and İstanbul Anatolian Side TEDAŞ (TEDAS) was held in 1990, and thus the Istanbul Anadolu Bank was cancelled and Kayseri remained. When was the second privatisation done? The second autonomy was a privatisation of the AYDEM region of Aydın, Denizli and Mugla in 2000. Why is that needed? Because TEDAS can't make enough collections and the institution is being damaged. We're not selling TEDAS, we're just handing over the right to operate. On the other hand, of course, in the time of our governments, major steps have been taken to produce electricity in Turkey. When we came to power, the amount of electricity used in Turkey was 120 gigawatts, it reached 210 gigawatts today, it increased by about 80 percent, and we were discussing in the 1990s: are we going to do power cuts in the coming years or not? Will the electricity be enough for our industrialization? That's what we've been discussing. But after we came to power, thank God we didn't have any problems with the power outage. I think this is a very important step. I think our nation has completely forgotten about the blackouts in Turkey. And quickly, our investments have increased. In the 2000s, electricity production of the private sector increased to 68 per cent today, while in the 2000s, electricity production of the private sector was 32 per cent. Of course, we get 44 per cent of our electricity from natural gas, 24 per cent from hydropower, 20 per cent from coal and others from wind, solar energy and other energy. Of course, here, when we look at the opposition, we see that you're saying, "Oh, we're against the production of electricity out of natural gas." Okay, we're against it, so let's make coal. Do we have enough coal? It's not enough. We produce 14 percent of the electricity from coal, we produce 12 percent of the coal that we import. But are you against the HESEs, too? You're against HESECs, against other, nuclear energy. Then we'll tell them not to use electricity. It can't happen. We're against everything. But when it comes to using electricity, let's use the best of electricity, but no interruptions. On the other hand, you claim, of course, that the Court's audit of TEDAS would show less money that should be in the vaults of these privatized companies, and they would not be collected. Here it is: These are completely transferred to TEDAS, with their assets and their passives. TEDAS says: "All debts are mine, all will be mine." And then TEDAS takes them, and then... it's an active operating company, like a moving car. Now, you look at the vault a day later, and you say, "There's $4 million here the first day, there's $14 million the next day, there's 12 days later -- as Mr. Alim Bey said -- there's $30 million here. Except, when this company comes into the business, it doesn't have any debts, so it's in this safe deposit box, it's in the other direction, there's no such thing. Because every dollar that comes in will be in his safe, but what if it had been in TEDAS? Your debts would be transferred to the other side. So, there's been a misunderstanding here. Nevertheless, we consider these suggestions by the opposition and by the Court. We're a different party, so we have to keep the money of the people entrusted to us. Therefore, we insist on the suggestions you claim and on what the Court claims. The Prime Minister's High Control Board is already looking into it. If there's any irregularities, corruption, anything from personnel here, he'll get the punishment, but...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0052par0052	I don't know why the counters aren't read...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0051par0053	Now, look, it's the staff that reads the meter. It's not like we can't protect anyone, protect any firm that takes direction or privatisation in any way. What did we do in privatisation? Every year, more than $1 billion of TEDAS is damaged, and as I said in the beginning, we can build about 20 large hospitals with it. Now, what did we do because of the autonomy? We put $13 billion in our safe. This is not the sale of TEDAS. This is the age of his business.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0053par0056	Get the D.A.'s office to see the files.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0051par0057	Now, they're doing something to the citizen by mistake. This one was sold to TEDAS. They'll give them back to us the same way in 2036. We say that you, my brother, will invest in companies that receive this privatisation, and you will sell electricity for this much per year. All of this is under control. I mean, we let it go, there's no way he's gonna do it his way, there's no such thing. We've just handed over the sector that the government can't run well to the private firm, and in 2036, we'll get it. So let's say that the figure that you're talking about here is about $13 billion, or about $24 billion, is 20 to 30 million. We care about it a lot, but it's not what you claim. Because there's going to be some money in the vault every day, and so as I mentioned earlier, that new space company -- because it doesn't have any debt, it's going to multiply rapidly. But now, let's say you look at the company that was privatized three years ago, and you won't find it there either, because it won't have that kind of money in its safe. So we don't think there's any corruption here, any irregularity, but in any case, it's being investigated by the PM's High Control Board inspectors, and if there's any criminal element, I think it's going to be punished. Therefore, I, the CHP group, declare that I am against the motion, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0054par0061	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0055par0063	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit03spe0054par0064	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0054par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the proposal is not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off from the 1st place in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Human Rights Review Commission, the European Union Compliance Commission and the Interior Commission reports in the 3rd place. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 310 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0056par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group following the proposed bill. I salute you all. Mr. President, at the beginning of my remarks, I condemn terrorist attacks on the Justice and Development Party and the Justice Department last night. Terror is an act to be damned no matter where it comes from. Mr. President, I'm afraid our country is restless. The internal and foreign policy followed by the AKP has unfortunately brought our country into an unsettled environment. It is impossible to imagine that the events that took place in Turkey were from the internal and foreign policy followed by the AKP. Now, the subject of privatisation has just been discussed. Why are we doing the privatisation? We're doing it to increase efficiency, we're doing it to increase employment, and it's always privatisation to bring life into the economy, but you know that privatisation in Turkey is, unfortunately, far from providing them. Now, I'm going to give you three or five concrete examples. The Balıkesir SECA factory has been privatized for $1 million, worth $50 million. Can you call this privatisation now? In which institution has the privatisation increased employment, productivity increased, new technology arrived? There was ORUS in Bolu, you know, forest industrial products. Now, there are members of the lawmakers who are the director of the forest. Where's that ORUS now? It's privatized, it's blowing. Did we increase the employment? We didn't raise it, no. We're against such privatisations. Let me give you an example: I'm in Etimesgut. There are some of you sitting on my website. We lost power on Friday, couldn't get an hour and a half of electricity. We had to land or leave 14 floors in a 14-story building. I called them -- but you can reach them in half an hour -- and I said, "Why are you answering so late?" They said, "My master is busy." They said, "If he's busy, you'll hire people according to him." I said, "My Lord EPDK is deciding that." We're against such privatisations. One of the sources of unrest in the country is the policies you follow. See, there are some criteria in the Human Development Report in 1996, members of parliament. Look, we call it growth. He counted unwanted growth, saying that growth without employment is not a good growth. Growth that increases inequality is not acceptable, acceptable growth. Growth that prevents the most disadvantaged part of society from participating is not good growth. Unregistered growth is not good growth. Growth that doesn't support the future, the right use of natural resources and the environment, is not the right growth. You're not looking out for any of this. (x) 310 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Now, my dear friends, we are discussing the bill for immigration and international protection. People from other countries have come to our country since 1923, one way or another. From us, and from Turkey, especially after 1960, migrant workers went to Europe. See, what a Swiss writer says: we wanted labor, but they sent people. I mean, he didn't look at the labor force we sent him as a human being. Unfortunately, that's how he sees immigration in the world. My dear friends, I just told you, since 1923, various times have come to our country from outside, and now there are refugees from Syria. We've said several times what kind of problems asylum seekers from Syria have caused in border cities, but you haven't heard it, and you've seen Syria as your internal business. However, we said that Syria's events should be resolved by the Syrian people, and you didn't listen to us. We thought you had a different opinion. King Abdullah was here fifteen days ago, you invited him. See, King Abdullah says that a new and radical alliance is being formed. I see a Muslim Brotherhood crescent growing in Egypt and Turkey. We've been saying that since the beginning. Look, dear lawmakers, we don't say that. That's what your guests say. About the immigration thing. No matter what you say, it's the human subject of immigration. Therefore, the measures should also be human - focused, so we will not deny the fact that those exposed to migration are human beings. Dear lawmakers, the region or the country that has been migrating, both internal immigration and foreign immigration, can't always be tolerant of those who come through immigration. In some countries, such as Germany, people may even be subjected to some racist attacks. There is no such problem in Turkey right now, but we must not ignore it. Now, of course, why do people migrate to other countries, leaving where they were born, where they lived, where they grew up? In fact, we need to focus on that when we're thinking about immigration, or when we're thinking about exodus. The purpose of this law, though, is to arrange for people from outside to Turkey to stay in Turkey, to enter Turkey and to exit Turkey, but to take a look at those who have gone from Turkey to Europe while the issue of immigration is being mentioned. Dear lawmakers, in 50 years some 4.5 million Turkish citizens have gone to European countries. In Germany, you know, there is an important infrastructure for this immigration issue. But we're starting a new head office in Turkey. Therefore, we consider the drafting of this law to be an improvement. By the way, we've been very critical here, and we're going to continue to criticize you, but I want to put it this way: this bill is really good, and all the other actors' opinions have been drawn up. That's why I'm here to thank all the Home Office bureaucrats who've done all the work. While the commission was discussed, both before and after the Commission, the members of the Commission were given sufficient information and their contributions were assessed in this way. I hope that's how all the plans are prepared from now on. We said it on the commission, but then again, everyone read what they knew. Though I have no hope, I wish to hope that this is how the plans will be prepared. As it is known, the migration is fundamentally divided into internal migration and external migration. I've just said, especially since 1950, there has been a massive migration movement within Turkey, and after 1960 many of our citizens have had to migrate from our country to Europe for the purpose of working. And I've expressed to our country -- there have been migrations in various years. Here, the infrastructure for that needs to be prepared. My dear friends, because of a serious lack of planning, the immigration in the country, unfortunately, has not been handled well. Many problems have come with internal migrations. Many economic, social, and political problems have entered our agenda through migration. My dear friends, Turkey, is a special situation in this regard. Turkey is a country that has been exposed to an intense population growth. The policy you follow encourages this unplanned population increase in Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister talks about at least three births everywhere, which he sometimes brings up to five. Now, valued lawmakers, if you can train your people, if you can prepare them for the future, if you can prepare them for the future, of course, the young population is an important capital, and the human capital is important in this regard, but if you can't train them, if you can't prepare them for the future, if you can't do the job, if you can't do the job, then the excess population is like a ready bomb. Migration is a consequence, migration is not a cause, migration is a consequence. The result of what? Migration is the result of some political, social and economic structures. The main reason is the unstable, unstable, political and economic structure. When the wave of migration is too large as a result of this structure, crooked urbanization and other problems make him feel immediate. Another important topic is that Turkish citizens migrated as workers to European countries, especially to Germany after 1960, and then to Libya, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Central Asia. The number of these, lawmakers, is around 5 million. The problems and problems of Turkish labour migration have not yet been inoculated. In particular, there has been no serious work done to address the problems of our workers who have gone to the Western countries, who have brought foreign currency into the country, which has only caused us to view them as a foreign currency machine. On the other hand, immigration has made it feel like a serious foreign currency increase coming to our country, has contributed to the development of country tourism, and has affected our foreign trade.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0057par0045	Mr. Serindağ, just a moment. Congressmans, as part of the Inter Parliamentary Change and Dialogue Project, the Hungarian Parliamentary Committee, which is now visiting our country as an invitation from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has arrived at our Parliament, and I welcome them on behalf of our Grand Assembly. [[Applause]] [[Continue]] Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0058par0057	Thank you. And I'd like to welcome our guest. Congressmans, immigration is a permanent change. Migrations are influenced by repulsive and attractive factors. Inflammatory factors drive people away because of pressures that make them unhappy with their present location, while attractive factors attract them to new settlements. According to data from the United Nations in 2012, he lives in a country where nearly 230 million people are not born in the world. In 2012 alone, there was a large population movement worldwide to maintain a better life with political riots, violence, natural disasters and large-scale projects, which forced 72 million people to leave their homes. Turkey has been a transit country for foreigners who have come and gone west, especially from southern and eastern countries to the last few years. Today, however, Turkey has gained the quality of staying country for some citizens, as well as being a transit country. This bill organises issues about foreigners who come into our country, enter our country, stay in our country, and want to get out of our country. You know, it's very old regulations. We welcome this bill -- as I just said -- because these old regulations have lost function and need to be adapted to the conditions of the day. Congressmans, during the Gulf War, people from northern Iraq had to emigrate to our country in 1991. You know, in the '80s and '90s, people from Bosnia, Kosovo, Bulgaria had to come to our country because of the events in Europe. Now, the main thing is for people to live happily and prosperously in their own country. Turkey's policy must predict this. Look, in '89 -- maybe you'll remember -- there were mass migrations from Bulgaria to Turkey, because of the pressure of then Bulgarian President Jivkov. Mr. Prime Minister at the time said, "Let's be 70 million and you'll see your day." Gene said, "Remember, when we become 70 million, we'll squeeze it." What's the matter, did we squeeze him? So, my dear friends, we need to be rational about these things, avoid emotional behavior, just not see the excess of the population as a single and adequate requirement for solving every problem. Of course, immigration, especially the concept of foreign immigration and foreigners, is far too broad to be compressed by legal regulations. Legal regulations are extremely important, but the main thing in this area is to take the person to the center, and we're going to make human-focused arrangements because the subject of migration is human. This bill is an important step, but it must be constantly reviewed according to circumstances and developments. Such implementation of the law allows for immediate intervention in future problems. This law includes foreigners and must be combined with the laws of harmony. Anyone who enters Turkey illegally or normally is sheltered in some of the camps financed by the United Nations. At the moment, some people in this situation are waiting to be admitted and are waiting to be admitted to the country. However, this international migration and flooding into other countries should not be used for other purposes. It should not be tolerated for immoral reasons, such as cheap labor. You know, there are a lot of people in our country right now, especially from the former Soviet Bloc countries, who come to our country, and they work in jobs like nurse, babysitter, cleaners, even in areas such as construction, textiles and mining. Dear MPs, at the end of my words, I'd like to address Syria briefly, time is running out. There's a great deal of unrest in border cities right now. A lot of people come and live in our country without knowing who they are. There are people in the church who are now said to have more Syrians than the population of the church. We don't know if he's Syrian or not. So is Gaziantep, and so is Nizip. We have to take precautions about these things, we have to record them. We have to determine if they're in contact with terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0059par0069	Mr. Serindağ, I'll extend your time a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0058par0071	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a matter of serious consideration. This concerns our country very closely, and Hatay is concerned, and Gaziantep is interested in other border cities. Currently, according to official figures, 30,000 Syrians have applied to the authorities in Gaziantep to register, while many others have not. Their residence permit has been extended. However, they continue to be problems because we don't know who they are, we don't know what they're doing, we don't know how they live, we don't know who they're in contact with. These need to be saved from this unknown process, and Turkey needs to change Syrian policy as soon as possible. Look, even the new Secretary of Defense and the new Secretary of State of State of America are calling for dialogue, my dear friends. Before we forget the fact that Turkey lives in this region, we need to establish our policies accordingly. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0060par0076	Thank you. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Party Group on the entire bill, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0061par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I come before you to express the views of the National Movement Party on Foreign Affairs and National Protection Law 310 rows, the esteemed MPs of the Turkish nation, and I salute your grand delegation. The main reason for the emergence of the migration phenomenon as old as human history is its reflex to reach better living conditions than the conditions of individuals. This reflex, as an element of man's ability to build civilizations, has created the infrastructure for development in almost every geography throughout the ages. In other words, when man emigrated to improve his own living conditions, he also made significant contributions to the development of civilization. The migratory person has created political, cultural, economic, and social effects on the places he left behind, the places he came from, and the societies that have led to positive and negative consequences. The concepts of people leaving the country in various ways and crossing borders and entering, defecting, moving to other countries, starting a business there, or smuggling immigrants and human trafficking are among the issues of international immigration. Because of economic and political instability in other geographys around it, the bridge between backward states and communities and developed states and communities has been dealt with both the historical and present-day migration phenomenon, due to the strategic, cultural and political properties of our land and Turkish society. Therefore, Asia Minor has a continuous view of a human traffic scene, and this is the time period we're in. According to the figures presented by government representatives, the number of foreigners who have come to our country is more than 30 million per year. The request of foreigners to live in our country has found 200,000. In the last 15 years, the number of people who have entered our country illegally has reached 1 million in what we call illegal migration, which is close to 10,000 requests for international protection. Due to its geographical position and position, the Republic of Turkey, which I refer to as the number of migrations above, has to take certain measures due to the threat to its security, public order, public health, economics, and demographic structure, whether it is a transit country or the target country. Of course, within these measures, the Turkish state is obliged to place the issue on a specific legal and organisational basis as well as to open it to international co-operation and co-ordination with all available instruments and arguments. Migration is a phenomenon in which modern states must carefully, carefully and co-operate, and maintain the sensitivity of balances between freedom and security. In such precision, the isolation and safety of borders are among the most important factors in the modern and purposeful of border crossings. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, it has been the right decision to assemble and bring the bill to parliament under a single framework of the issues which are distributed in various legislation, and should be regulated with disorganised issues, regulations, instructions, protocols, and such legislation. In addition, the fact that the powers and duties of different institutions that have no special staff or services in immigration are being organised under one roof, within the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration, has been a good reason for the chaos to end. I'd like to thank the valued bureaucrats who work in the kitchen of the bill, which is considered to be carefully and carefully handled by the legal and technical infrastructure. In this framework, we consider the bill to be in the interest of the state and the nation as the National Movement Party. I want to share with you that we are in favor of the bill, that we support it. In the meantime, I can't help but express one thing. This arrangement is a very late arrangement. Whether it's a transit country or a target country, we all know that Turkish soil has faced major problems in terms of legal or illegal immigration. Not just our relatives, but the Turkish state and Turkish lands have been the refuge of every society trapped in this geography. Our state has mobilized its resources, and the Turkish nation, like a guest, has made their arrival the crown. A recent reminder of those who took refuge in the Turkish nation in this way: 51,542 people during the Persian-Iraq War in 1988; about 20,000 people were deported from Bulgaria between May and August 1989; about 1,75,000 people were mobilised between 2 August 1990-2 April 1991, and nearly 900 thousand people before and after the Gulf crisis and the War; between 1992 and 1997, civil war in the former Yugoslavia and division in Bosnia and Herzegovina; in 1999, after the events occurred in Kosovo. Of course, it is not possible for foreigners of the 1950s to resolve some of the provisions of the Law on Housing and Traveling in Turkey and Passport Law 5682. It's a private and private institution for both legal and technical and organisation, which we're negotiating today. I'd like to remind you of something else that needs to be underlined and that the AKP government needs to pay attention. That's our government's definition and approach of refugees. As it is known, only those from Europe are considered refugees and those from other geographys are not considered refugees by the geographical restrictions established in the 1967 protocol of the United Nations Geneva Convention in 1951. In the past February, we understand from the European Commission's views on visa exemption and its road map to our state that the most important requirement for visa exemption is to remove the geographical restrictions and pave the way for all asylum seekers to be considered refugees. The European Union Commission has conditioned this on the road map on visa exemption, and it has been highlighted in its report that the visa exemption will take effect in Turkey's signing of Turkey's Reception Agreement, so that the return of third-world citizens to Turkey, who have been smuggled through Turkey, will be subject to Turkey's return to Turkey -- visa exemption, which will run in parallel with the Reception Agreement, progress towards exemption is based on Turkey's expectations and performance on Turkey's road map. In this framework, our state has been asked to end visas for citizens of countries who pose a risk of immigration and security for the European Union, prioritize more sleep on visas and implementation of legal legislation with the European Union, abolishing the geographical restrictions imposed by Turkey in the protocol of the 1951 Geneva Convention 1967, the United Nations High Commissioner's Office can use all powers without restrictions in Turkey. In short, the European Union wants the Republic of Turkey to be a dam that blocks refugees for Europe and a pool that keeps them like a warehouse. Turkey demands refugees to be sent back as a centre. Of course, it is unthinkable to meet this demand that poses considerable risks in national security, national economy, public health and demographic structure. In this regard, it is important that the AKP government, which thinks that every road map is a good thing and attacks every road map with salt in its hand, maintains our sensibilities against the request of the European Union. It is important to know that it would not be right for AKP to set sail for new adventures in this matter, since we are going to destroy it. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, in their 11th year, many policies have been introduced against national interests, even dangerous, which have been expressed by the AKP, which is still the government. In many other areas, such as the issue of terrorism, Cyprus, membership in the European Union, relations with Armenia, the AKP has come up with dramatic allegations, but its every claim, unfortunately, has resulted in destruction for the Turkish nation. Compromises and irreversible roads have troubled the Turkish state. Especially in foreign politics, understanding based on imagination and hallucinations has fallen into the humor of drowning in shallow water when talking about strategic depths. The ambitious exit that began with zero problems with neighbors has now become a reality without one friendly neighbor. One of the examples, and perhaps the most striking, is Syria. The Syrian approach, the most important of the government's foreign policy errors, has now become a threat to our internal and external security, health, our economy, even our moral values. Syria, where our Ottoman counterparts live, is of great importance to the Turkish state, as it is our longest land border. On the other side of this border, more than 900km [900 km], until 1998, there was a significant blockage of relations, especially from the Armenian-rooted uncircumcision PKK (PKK) and the ringleader baby killer. However, relations began to develop when the baby killer was expelled from Syria in 1998. From 1998 to today, relations that have gained momentum in all areas of commercial, social, and cultural are developed based on mutual interest until civil war breaks out in Syria. Our exports, which were $190m in the 1990s, advanced to $1.7 billion in 2011. The number of Syrian tourists in the 1990s was 1 million in 2011. The investments made by Turkish citizens in Syria are said to have caught $1 billion, according to unofficial figures. Turkey-Suriye relations, which caught such a spring air, suddenly capsized and all the data turned against us. The Turkish Republic has been a tool for policies that have not been produced by its own initiatives and projects of foreign capitals, and a civil war has begun in Syria. The ongoing instability, which emerged and continued, has had a negative effect on all regional states. According to official records, about 300,000 asylum seekers from Syria have arrived in Turkey today due to civil war, and the unregistered ones are unknown. The asylum seekers are a serious financial burden to our state. In invisible pencils, over $1 billion is mentioned for the well-being of asylum seekers. In addition to refugees, infectious diseases have entered. Diseases, such as measles, tuberculosis, have been caused by risk and panic. In terms of health care, asylum seekers were born to receive large amounts of private and public hospitals. The trade was nearly finished, and the damage of Gaziantep, Hatay, Church, and Şanlıurfa was a total of 3-4 billion dollars a year. The fact that refugees are a cheap labor force has affected our citizens, who are already suffering from unemployment in the border counties. The civil war in Syria, our longest land border, has also affected the trade of our border cities. More than 1 million people have passed through the border crossings in Hatay, Kilis and Şanlıurfa, which our citizens have used to reach Syria and beyond. However, because Akchakale, Cilvegöz, Karkamiş, Öncepınar, Yayladı, and Mardin border crossings were closed due to the civil war in Syria, the vehicle crossing was almost at a halt, and the economy around here was negative. For example, the Şanlıurfa Akchakale Border Gate, prior to the civil war, took place in the first six months of 2011, where more than 125 000 trucks passed by, while in 2012 the number dropped to a level of 500 (600). Mr. President, the bill we're negotiating today is an arrangement for asylum seekers. There is a civil war in Syria, and refugees who have fled this war have brought our state face to face with the problems I am trying to sum up above. So, why did this war come about? For many years, global forces have been searching for governments to serve as servants in this geography to control the natural resources of the region and trying to implement new states. Projects mentioned in Article 62, 63, 64 and 65 of the Treaty of Sevr, of the 12th Article of Wilson's Principles, are not forgotten or thrown away. The civil war in Syria is not a struggle for democracy and freedom. The civil war in Syria is a state project that is imagined to be formed with parts from Iraq, Syria, Iran and Turkey, when a ethnic group is provoked and then federal structures appear. Turkish foreign policy, unfortunately, serves this project. Urging the wishes of its successors as an order, the government did not hesitate to turn the spring air that emerged between us in Syria into a black winter. Brother Assad, such issues as the joint cabinet of ministers, have suddenly been thrown out of the trash, talking about the war, about Esed, about the war. In Syria, the rebels who clashed against the state forces, lived on our land, held meetings, formed organizations, and just a few days ago identified their so-called prime minister. While all these developments are happening, the Republic of Turkey, who won the hatred and hostility of the Assad administration, is not very popular with the rebels, who are claimed to have hosted and even supported logistics. The region, which is just south of our territory and north of Syria, has been controlled by the PKK's extension in Syria since it was abandoned by Syrian state forces. It is also evident from developments following this structure, supported by Pesmerge chief Barzani, that Western states have received what they want from Syria for the time being. Russia and the United States talk about the sitting of Assad (Assad) with the rebels. The US Secretary of State mentions the arms of moderate forces in Syria. Apparently, the process in Syria resembles the process in Iraq after the First Gulf War. Assad will remain in office for a time, just like Saddam, while the north of Syria will be controlled by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the organisation process will be completed, the autonomy-federative structure will be established there, and Assad will be seen at that time, and of course this structure will be combined with the structure in the north of Iraq, and then it will come to tear apart parts of Iran and Turkey. The problems of the Turkmen presence in Syria, I hope, will not be the same as the Turks in Iraq, and the government will take care of our brothers this time. With all these developments, the citizens are prevented from learning about these matters. The media, on the one hand, is being pressured indirectly by instruments such as tax debts or public tenders, by the Prime Minister, who determines what columnists, reporters, what to write, what not to write, even what to run in newspapers, what newspapers to read, what not to read. Our parliamentary work has been released from the public by very little of the TRT. The Speaker of Parliament and the Minister in charge of TRT have to pay for such a critical period. Meanwhile, the baby killer in Imralı is talking about the constitutional order of our state, how politics will be shaped, and the common goals of AKP, PKK and BDP are being held one by one. In another way, concepts such as Turkish, Turkish, Turkish nationalism, are tried to be discredited by psychological operations, trying to give the public the message that these are bad concepts. A constitution without Turkishism is thus requested to be carried out by an Anatolian project, where Turkish identity has been wiped out. All who would object to this project are trying to be silenced by various methods. As we all know, with cases that have cost public opinion, university intellectuals, distinguished officers of the Turkish Armed Forces, jurisprudence and businessmen, many of whom, like politicians, are either being put in prison or put under pressure. Thus, the true nature of global projects, which the government is a tool for, as well as the dangers that await our state and nation, is asked to hide from our society. Government members have an attempt to pressure Turkish nationalists or to discredit Turkish nationalists. Turkish nationalists have a unified understanding that embraces all elements, including Turkmen, Kurd, Laz, Circek, Abaza, and so on, the Turkish nation. Turkish nationalists are people who live and live in the same state, and today live within the borders of the same state. Turkish nationalism, as I described above, is a deep sense of love, commitment, a joint date, and a sense of common goals. Turkish nationalists are well aware of the case of Fatiha. Turkish nationalists don't know the prayers of other nations, of other religions, they don't say the prayers of others, they don't say the words, they don't become tools. It is they who are the worshippers of other nations and religions who say otherwise. Turkish nationalism is also a river, and it is not possible to trample it. Today, as ever, those who wish to trample him, are either swept into the hole or go to their rightful place by flushing the toilet. Turkish nationalists will meet with our chairman, Dr. State Gardenlı, at the organisational rally on Saturday (March 23rd). With these feelings, I wish this bill to be a blessing, and I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0062par0115	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0063par0118	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my speech, I salute you all. Turkey is a point of complete transition, especially between Europe and Asia and Africa, and therefore, today, through Turkey, there is an important migration movement that has taken place in Turkey and to other countries. The Iraq War, which also took place in the Middle East, is a state that has been immigrated from the outside due to the Iran-Iraq War, then the Iraq War, then the events in Syria, now. Hence, it is most accurate that such a law has been passed. Dear lawmakers, I think we should look at the matter from a much wider perspective. In this way in our history, two main issues can be discussed, including migrations from abroad and migrations from abroad. It's one of the things that we've always seen in history: immigration. For example, we all know and know it very well. During the period of Whiteid, under the pressure of Christians in Spain, both Muslims and Jews were taken from Spain, while the Muslims were brought north to Africa, while the Jews were brought to Istanbul, Edirne, and Thessaloniki. Furthermore, there are refugees from some countries who seek refuge in the Ottoman State. For example, people from Poland live in Polonezköy, Istanbul today. Also known as Hungarian refugees, there are two separate groups of refugees who fled from Hungary and came to Turkey. You all know that Kasoth lived in Kütahiah, and Rakochi Ferenc lived in Tekirdağ. In our relations with Hungary today, our connection with these two refugee groups brings us closer together. Other than that, there's a matter of Ironhead Sharl, which we all know very well. After the defeat of King of Sweden to the Russians in Poltava, it was preserved in Akkerman, Akkerman. From 1703 until 1713, Demirbaş Sharl remained in Ottoman territory. Since Demirbaş Şarl did not go to his country, he received the title of Ironbass (Ironbaş) because he was paid for all expenses from the Ottoman State, he then went to Sweden under the military and material resources given to him, and thus the Turks opened their arms to them in the matter of Demirbaş Sharl. In fact, this incident has shown great sympathy for the Ottoman state in Europe, and even Ottoman clothes have become first-degree fashion in Europe. So that's what happens when we look at history. Other than that, in our wars with Turkish states, we see some population transfers and movements. For example, after the Iranian campaign of Yavuz Sultan Selim. A number of tribes in Anatolia came to Iran, and a number of tribes in Iran came to Anatolia. Thus, while conducting all of this, the Ottoman state followed a very serious housing policy. It has been especially noted that the places where people would be placed are suitable for their previous homes. For example, we see that those from the Caucasus are more placed in high positions, and refugee immigrants from the Balkans -- immigrants from the loss of their territory there -- have been transferred to the regions of Asia Minor, which fit the Rumeli climate. It is also a fact that the Turkish population, which was transferred to Cyprus after the conquest of Cyprus, was transferred to Cyprus, with people who fit the climate of Cyprus. In matters involving Turkey's immigrants today, the establishment of a general manager is extremely accurate. Indeed, these jobs will always be ahead of Turkey. Because the economic differences between the East and the West are a constant fact that it will support this migration. On the other hand, I would like to point out in particular that we are obliged to consider the internal problems of Turkey itself. As a matter of fact, migrations from rural to cities certainly mean a great deal to Turkey. As a matter of fact, today, in rural areas in Turkey, villages are almost without populations, and there are no people left in the villages except a few houses, and there is a huge current towards the cities. In recent statistics, as far as I know, the ratio between the population of the city and the population of the village has expanded rapidly, and the number of people living in cities has increased by 75 percent. In this case, it is necessary to take into account the lack of dignity that has occurred in the city, because it is a fact that migrations directly to cities have caused a problem in cities, such as in the Ottoman period. Thus, finding jobs for people from rural areas, building infrastructure, and solving some problems about it are of the utmost importance, of course, in the first degree. Other than that, I'd like to say a word or two about immigrants from Syria today from Syria: We know that about 200,000 people from Syria have been placed in some of our border areas, but there are many immigrants who have come to Turkey outside of this population. For example, many beggars or others who have done similar things in Istanbul, raiding some homes, have created a situation in some cities that fuels unrest. Thus, it is imperative that the refugees from the outside be taken certain measures to enter certain camps and certain places. For today there are great tribulations in Hatay, and great tribulations in Antwerp, and great tribulations in Adana. Therefore, it is a debt from history that we certainly welcome these refugees as human beings, but it is important to prevent them from causing indecency in the country. Therefore, the pursuit of those who have entered Turkey directly beyond the control of the state and cannot be detected in response to the blocking of certain camps and entrances of immigrants from Syria (Syria) must be followed, and at least they must be gathered and taken to camps. On the other hand, the fact that the camps are so big is causing some indecency within the camps. It is more important that refugees who come in this way are formed into smaller camps, separate camps, and kept in separate camps than in a large camp. That's because they're causing indecencies within themselves, and even worse incidents, including harassment, have arisen here. These things need to be considered and evaluated. Of course, in connection with people from abroad, I would also like to say that in the past days our Minister of Culture has made a statement that the Armenians, Greeks and Jews can return to Turkey. Those who have left the country in the past period of Turkey must be kept separate because those who have left Turkey before the Lausanne Agreement were banned by the Lausanne Agreement, who had left Turkey without a visa from the Ottoman State and who had left the country without permission of others, such as those who had left the country with the permission of the forces. These should be taken care of. Other than that, there is no need to call these people when they are citizens of the Republic of Turkey and can already enter Turkey at any time, but it is quite possible that they will return. But other than that, as I said earlier, those who were banned with the Lausanne Agreement must not open the gates of their entry back into Turkey, because such a situation will only complicate the situation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0064par0131	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior, Mr. Muammar Guler, who wants a word on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0065par0135	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the entire bill of foreign and international protection. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first and foremost, I would like to say that at 8:40 p.m. last night, I have condemned the attacks against the AK PARTY headquarters and the Ministry of Justice building at 8:51 p.m. After the incident, we, the interior ministry, have announced to the public that we, the party spokesman at the EC PARTY headquarters, Mr. Hüseyin Çelik. In both cases, the identification of individuals who carried out the actions is ongoing. Our police departments are reviewing all sorts of information in order to locate the responsible. These acts of terrorism will be illuminated as soon as possible, and the perpetrators will be handed over to the authorities. In fact, we know the perpetrators and we know them by their real faces. Those who do these acts have a common name, and this is the enemies of democracy. (EA/DG) These are enemies of democracy, and the most effective countermeasure against them is to maintain democracy and to be determined to fight terrorism. Honourable lawmakers, these attacks are primarily against our democracy and the state of law. We also know the meaning of these attacks when our country needed unity and unity the most, and we condemn them with violence and hatred. Actions that have been carried out are aimed at disturbing the peace of our nation, causing panic and fear. However, it must not be forgotten that no act of terror has ever achieved its goal in this way, and it will not come to pass. In every corner of our country, our fight against terror will continue with determination. I'd like to emphasize that here in particular. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, today's internationally qualified immigration movements have been placed at the top of the agenda, not only in immigration states, but in all geographys where globalisation is felt or experienced intensively. The international migration has become a complex and multidimensional phenomenon, as well as the diversity of actors involved in the migration through its causes, its effects, and its interactions with other areas. In this framework, migration affects some countries directly and indirectly, in addition to the security dimension, from social, economic and political angles. It is classified as migration, regular migration and irregular migration. While the issue of immigration is being discussed, the irregular, or illegal immigration phenomenon is stepping forward, but the importance of regular migration should not be ignored. Because when the regular migration is not effectively managed, it becomes an irregular migration. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I'd like to address some of the basic concepts of immigration in this part of my speech. Regular immigration, resources, transition and travel to a different country from the country where people are located, in accordance with the laws of countries that are aimed at it. In other words, when mentioned as a regular immigrant, with valid travel documents and necessary permits to replace a passport or passport -- documents such as visas, visa exemptions, residence permit -- it is understood that people who have come and stayed here from places assigned to the target country as a border gate. In this framework, there are reasons for regular migration, tourism, treatment, visits and job interviews, as well as reasons for settling, family integration, work and study. The irregular migration is described as all of the migration movements in violation of the laws of both resources and transition and the laws of target countries. In view of the target countries, illegal entry into the country is the main example of illegal or illegal immigration activities in the country, even though it should leave the country. In addition to the concepts of regular and irregular migration, I'd like to make a brief mention of asylum, international protection. It is impossible to keep international protection completely separate from the concept of migration. The defection movement, as in the migration, also involves going to other countries by legal or illegal means, but the most distinguishing point between the two is that those in need of international protection leave their country because they fear that they will be persecuted by race, religion, exclusion, certain social groups, or political views. These people must be protected within the framework of the Legislature provisions of the 1951 Refugees, whose country is also on the side. International protection means access to security and basic human rights in the country in which people who lack the protection of their own state are not to be sent back as long as the danger of life and freedom continues in the country they come from. In general, individual and collective defection -- often based on social and political phenomena and human size -- remains one of the most fundamental issues in the world and our region today, as it has been in the past. Mr. President, lawmakers, immigration is not only a movement towards developed countries, but also a phenomenon that shapes economic, social and cultural areas in countries that are migrating with the countries that are migrating. The impact of the migration brought the migration and development relationship to the centre of international migration efforts in the creation of immigration policies. In light of these developments, our country, which has significant immigration experiences, puts together the experience and good practices of both public institutions and institutions and private sectors, among its short-term goals of developing a model in the field of migration and development. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the International Protection Act we're going to discuss, are first prepared to meet the needs of our country, to protect its interests, and to establish our necessary policies and strategies. If the bill of law is passed, the bottom line is: there will be a balance between basic rights and freedoms to be recognised to foreigners and the protection of public order and security. The ministry, which serves in the area of immigration, will provide effective co-operation and co-ordination between public institutions and organisations. The short, medium and long-term migration policies and strategies our country needs will be determined by a broad participation by the Board of Migration Policy. The opening of chapter 24 in the European Union talks will contribute substantially to their efforts. An active and systematic administrative and institutional structure will be introduced in visa and residence permit processing, which constitutes a regular immigration area, and bureaucratic procedures and informality will be reduced as much as possible; for example, a residence permit will be granted. Also, foreigners will be able to receive residence permits and work permits by applying to our consulates while they are still in their country. Residential permits will be classified, special conditions and obligations will be provided for each of them, and the rights to those permits will be made clear. In line with regulations that protect the rights of women and children exposed to domestic violence, the stay of foreigners in this situation in Turkey will be guaranteed legally. The legal infrastructure of fighting irregular migration will be strengthened and the fight in this area will be more effective. The most severe administrative sanctions for foreigners and related administrative oversights will be restructured in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights, so the European Court of Human Rights will be prevented from making a violation decision against our country. For the first time, the rights of those without a country will be guaranteed openly and legally. The rights and obligations of foreign and status holders who apply for asylum and work and protection in the international protection area will also be held at the level of law for the first time. The establishment of reception centers and return centers will be legal, and important innovations will be made regarding the operating of these centres. Honourable lawmakers will be appointed the General Directorate of the Interior Administration of the Interior for implementing policies and strategies on the area of immigration, co-ordinating between institutions and organisations related to these issues, for foreigners to enter Turkey and stay in Turkey, leave Turkey and be deported, international protection, temporary protection and protection of victims of human trafficking. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, with the legislature of the Foreign and International Protection Act, adopted by a transparent and participatory process in the Interior Commission unanimously adopted, our country's immigration and international protection legislation and administrative system will be in line with international standards. Foreign entry into Turkey, stay in Turkey and exiting Turkey and the procedures and fundamentals of foreigners demanding international protection from Turkey will be organised in accordance with international agreements that we side with and at the level of law. As I finish my words, I especially want to highlight the following lines: In our geography, we have a tradition of opening the door to immigrants, protecting those in need, and becoming a thousand - year - old society of mercy, respected by the world's public. The Foreign and International Protection Act, which we will meet today, is a different manifestation of our tradition. Mr. President, during negotiations on the commission of this bill, we, the President and members of the Interior Commission, carried out this bill in an alliance. I express my thanks and thanks to the members of the Internal Affairs Commission separately. In the creation of the law, a great deal of work has been done. I also express my gratitude to my dear friends in the Ministry of Interior, academics, relevant public institutions and NGOs, and to you, the esteemed MPs who supported this bill today in the General Assembly, our groups, our members of the group, the deputy presidents. I wish this bill to be good and good luck, and I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0066par0156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Nüğde MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0067par0159	Mr. President, members of the High Council, I have made a pledge on the International Protection Act and the International Protection Act. I salute your high council. The migration is defined as human geographical activity and the population dynamic caused by this movement. A new and complex size in the globalization process has now become an important political, economic, social and cultural area. Dear friends, we are a country that has witnessed and hosted huge migration processes in its history. Recently, Turkey's increasing economic power and stability have been an attraction to the migration movement towards our country. Until recently, Turkey, a transit country, has become the target country for migration movements. The increase in human activity in our country can be clearly seen by the number of foreigners who have come for various purposes. The number of foreigners who came to our country in 1995 was 6.5 million, while the number was about 27 million in 2010. The number of residence permits held in 1995 was 87,000, with approximately 177,000 in 2012. In 1995, the number of international protection applications increased from 2,000 to 8,000 in 2010. In addition, some 830,000 irregular immigrants were captured in our country between 1995 and 2010. Precious lawmakers, another issue that encourages the migration towards Turkey is the ongoing political instability in our immediate environment. The refugee migration from Syria, which is closely followed by the public, is the last example. Turkey has been given a good human and international legal test for Syrian refugees who have taken refuge collectively in Turkey. Since the first day of the crisis, our country has shown a high level of competency and operational capacity to control the flow and prevent future problems. According to official information, as of March 19th, the number of Syrians in Turkey's housing centres is around 190,000 people. The number of Syrians that have come to our country so far has been 278,000. Ninety thousand of them went back to their country. The general conditions of life in the camps established in the south eight provinces of the Syrians have been hailed by many international observers, including the United Nations High Commissionership and the European Commission Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Unit. Mr. President, it is clear that it is necessary for our country to implement the reforms that will enable the establishment of the legal, financial and administrative system to lift the great burden of our country's immigration. The legislation and institutional structure that regulates illegal and illegal immigration movements is insufficient to meet the needs of our country today. There are already two fundamental laws governing the area of foreigners: Passport Law 5682 and the Law on Foreign Housing and Traveling in Turkey, number 5683. Both of these laws came out in 1950. The number of foreigners entering our country in 1953 reached 21,000 in 2010, reaching 27 million in 2010. The big difference between these numbers shows how much legal change is needed to meet today's needs. In addition, basic documents of human rights law were adopted on the date after these laws were passed. Therefore, neither law is fit to meet our obligations due to bilateral or multilateral agreement provisions, which we are on. Dear lawmakers, our country needs an institution that specializes in immigration and asylum. Similar to the world's successful examples, politics and strategies are needed to establish legal and institutional structure based on human rights. Migration and asylum practices in European Union countries are largely carried out by NGOs of the Ministry of Interior. In accordance with international norms and human rights standards, the need for admissions and shelters for refugees and asylum seekers, return centres for irregular immigrants, and the establishment and operating of shelters for victims of human trafficking are obvious. Here is a solution to the problems that are increasing in the area of the International Protection Act, immigration, and foreigners that we are meeting today. We are about to legislate a bill establishing mechanisms to form immigration policies and strategies, eliminating gaps in this area and contributing to the EU integration process. Precious lawmakers, the draft of Foreign and International Protection Act and the creation of Turkey's legal, administrative, physical infrastructure in the area of immigration and asylum will be ensured that international standards and compliance with the EU acquish and that the gaps established on the basis of violation of the Court of Human Rights decisions on our country will be resolved. Today, the immigration and asylum area, which should be regulated by law, under more administrative regulations, will now be regulated by an advanced law. Before this bill came to the General Assembly, there was a very well-adjusted and constructive work carried out by our opposition parliamentary friends, academics and relevant community institutions, organisations and representatives in the subcommittee of both the Interior Commission and the subcommittee. The bill is unanimous in our internal commission. I'd like to thank all my friends who contribute here and some of the dear bureaucrats from the Home Office. ▪ The foreign authorities will bring important regulations on the area of the bill, consisting of three main sections of the organisation and its tasks. When we look at the arrangements for foreigners, visas and residence permits are processed and a systematic structure is envisioned. In addition, the rights to work for foreigners, the rights of the homeless, and the cases of victims of human trafficking are widely regulated. One of the most important provisions is the strengthening of the legal infrastructure of fighting irregular migration and the activation of fighting in this field. For the first time, the international law on human rights standards and international protection in accordance with EU legislation is being established. Special protection mechanisms will be set in line with international standards for special needs holders, especially for unsupervised children. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are vital to institutional organisation for a good immigration management system. The need for institutional organisation in our country's immigration field will be met by the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration, which is envisioned to be established by the draft bill. In this way, immigration and asylum-related business and operations will now be conducted by a civilian residency agency. The adoption of this law, as expressed in the European Union's 2012 Progress Report, is key to Turkey's ability to establish a single and consistent legal framework that governs its relations with foreigners and ensures refugee rights in line with EU standards and international standards. The legislation of the bill will begin, not with the law, but with secondary regulations so far, and the area of immigration and foreigners will be run by regulations based on law and law. Most importantly, we will have an effective immigration management system, which establishes the necessary legal, administrative and physical infrastructure, in accordance with international human rights norms, where the delicate balance between human rights and security is maintained on the basis of human rights. I wish you the best of the bill, and I thank you from here for all the work you've done to prepare. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0068par0181	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Ten minutes to ask questions. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0069par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, after a murder in Şirköy district of Tekirdağ province on November 5, 2012, the public police wanted to press and lynch the murder suspect. After this, the governor's office announced that the brothers-in-law, sister-in-laws, will be transferred. They announced that in an article dated March 7th, nearly 500 officers will be transferred to the province. In the province where there are 1,900 police officers, the appointment of nearly 500 police officers has upset the officers and reduced their employment efficiency. Is it fair or conscientious to punish 500 employees across the county rather than punish the members of the Sharköy Police? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0070par0187	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0071par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, are there any new refugee camps in Mardin and Midyat? Is there a project to place the Suryans from Syria in these camps? In addition, Mr. Secretary, property managers expect you to bring their rights to the level of legitimate professions. Do you have anything to say about these demands? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0072par0193	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0073par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, one of the most important institutions in our society in safety and peace is the law enforcement agency. With the latest arrangements, the population living within the municipality's borders, or police, has also grown significantly in the field of duty. However, our police department has problems that we have expressed to our minister before you. The working conditions are very bad, very heavy; their permits, overtime, everything is a problem. He has major problems with his rights, especially with the lack of pension, due to the lack of additional indicators. We know that the police profession is both a difficult profession and one of the most suicidal professions. The police are facing great challenges both in terms of their financial needs and psychologically. What measures do you consider to resolve these problems? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0074par0198	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0075par0200	Thank you. Minister, our citizens from Bingol are looking for the National Movement Party. Since March 14th, two thirds of Bingley cannot be given water. There's water moving in cans everywhere, and there's already water ready, and economic power... people are already in trouble. So they delivered our fate to the killer in Imralı, the fate of this east and southeast? No one is interested in us, if there is one, but the Imraite. They complain. The thirst has turned into persecution and suffering. When will the solution be? And, Mr. Secretary, on March 18th, we have a parade of citizens with permission to commemorate the martyrs. In these walks, there have been warnings that the PKK will not be divided and the state will not be divided. It is said that slogans are not to be issued. It is said that there is a secret sentence on this issue. So, what is the purpose of this sentence? It's the right thing to do for such a purpose... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it the use that exceeds its purpose? I'm looking for an explanation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0076par0205	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0077par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, Mr. Minister, a deputy governor in Samsun has expressed his sensitivity as a member of the Republic of Turkey and is also under investigation for those who have taken nationalism under our feet, referring to the separatists in Twitter. However, the previous day, especially during the meetings held at the Istanbul Kazlıçeshme Square, (Ecalan) freedom, status in the southeast. There has been no incident in this country for those who openly oppose the founding philosophy of the country, which is under the constitutional guarantee of this state, while the citizens, the nation, the flag, the people who call it Turk, are immediately subject to investigation. They've been thanked for what a democratic rally they're holding. Mr. Secretary, where is this country going? We're worried. Please explain this to the public.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0078par0210	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0079par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you've started by saying peace, and may your ministry be well, but in recent days, protests, explosions, cracks continue in the streets, universities. From the border, constantly, activist groups enter Turkey. You've left some of those who act, you've passed new laws, and you've continued to leave them, and we'll cooperate with the baby-killer Imralı, and we'll bring peace, you say. We'll do that with the smart barons, you say. We're curious about these wise barons as a nation, and we'd appreciate it if you'd tell us. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0080par0215	Thank you. Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0081par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, your party has been attacked by a DHKP-C since you announced it without a DHKP-C. I'm sensing a bit of Ali Genghis in this, anyway, so get well soon. Now, how many DHKP-CLs are in Turkey, where do they have, do they have lava weapons? One. Second, it's Nevruz Day tomorrow. Now, the message of Abdullah Ocalan, which will be read in Diyarbakır on this festival, has not yet arrived, according to newspapers and televisions. When this message will be delivered by whom, and when it is read in Diyarbakır, will the photos of Abdullah Ocalan and the PKK flags be released? Will you resist such an act if it is not released? Three, now, what Mr. Oktay Vural just told me was that the citizens of Bingol were not given more than twenty days of water, which he himself did. And this Al Qaeda, the Muslim Brothers...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0082par0224	Thank you. That's right.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0083par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, citizens from Gökal district of Erbaa district of Tokat Province are calling. This is a municipality located on the edge of the Tokat-Samsun-Ordu triangle in Erbaa district; it has about 15,000 populations; it is 150km away from the province of Tokat; it is a place that is also a victim in the foothills of the Ant Mountains. These people don't migrate from here, they stay in their own territory. However, the problems here are also very big. This means they're expected to be districts, they want to be districts. We've had legal offers in the last semester and this period. However, I'm afraid our proposals of the law have not been enforced. They want to know if this place should be studied by the Ministry of Interior and really be a county. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0084par0229	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0085par0231	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your government has promised to give police a moving raise in the past period, I believe the Prime Minister has expressed it, but it has not been granted. Would you think about it again? Will you give it to me? Do you have that kind of work? Also, even though police officers are college graduates, they can't come to the 4th of a year of college, why? I mean, if Turkey is the country of equal citizens, why aren't the cops given that right? Oh, and, uh, you know what? You really need to get over these retirement issues with the cops. So, when a policeman retires, he sees that he has to suffer 40 percent of his salary, so please resolve that. Will you be working on that? Thank you very much, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0086par0236	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0087par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've been governor. The Governor of Adana videotapes and listens to a complainant who comes to him and relieves the relevant public official. Is this the proper way to do governorship, is there such a procedure? Secondly, you know, the refugee camp was set up in Adana, Buruk, our village. In Adana, there are allegations that this refugee camp has serious irregularities and corruption in its establishment and tenders. Do you intend to send an inspector here to clarify the public opinion? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0088par0242	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0089par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in particular, before your predecessor, before the Minister of the Interior stepped down, a general statement was issued to law enforcement officers concerning the application of a second singing mission. Those who are subject to second-song duties are seriously disturbed about this. Do you plan to make a new arrangement about this? Will you send those who have left while they have not yet left for the first song mission? Will new regulations be made in this regard in order to address this sacrifice? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0090par0247	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0249	Mr. President, I'd like to thank our esteemed lawmakers for asking questions. Sir, about the question Mr. Belen asked, that 500 police officers in the province will be transferred after the murder in Tekirdağ... as a transfer to the province, sir, as this singing service?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0092par0251	He's in the county, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0252	Yes, we're going to see the governor about the transfer. If 1,900 police officers are serving within the province, make an appointment based on the alibis of those whose time has been extended in the district. It has been stated that only 18 personnel have been notified so far.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0092par0253	No, sir, it's a big...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0254	I'll have him examined. Of course, I'm going to have it examined whether such a large number of police transfers have a negative effect or not on the conduct of the service. Of course...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0092par0255	There are 125 police officers in Chorus.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0256	Yes, Mr. Belen, I'll have him examined, sir. Mr. Erdogan, as a refugee camp in Midyat, there is no study at this time, but we have learned that the Suryanian citizens have a demand for this issue, but this demand is about building a tent city or a container city for asylum seekers. Whether such a need exists or not, we will assess it, but they have also announced to us that such a request has come, but how do we meet this demand, whether there is such a need in Midyat, or if there is such a number that can be set up? There is a problem with the demands, difficulties, or the conditions for remaining in other camps. Of course, we'll consider that, along with AFAD, there may be a solution for him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0093par0258	They say there's been a tender, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0259	I don't know anything about it, but I'll look into it, and I'll let you know. But not directly from us, but from AFAD to the establishment of these container cities. I'll consider the motion. Mr. Türkoglu, yes, police have expanded their field of duty -- the hours of work -- all of our other deputies have expressed that. First of all, I would like to point out that, of course, a law has been passed with your support, you know, about the fact that our police can rise to the 1st degree, but I think they've been made to the 1st degree, but I took that question in terms of the fact that the 1st degree has not been given additional indicators.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0094par0261	3600...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0262	You're right. Indeed, there is no task as stressful, as stressful, as tiring and as difficult as the service of our police in public service today. From here, I express my gratitude to all the police, to all the security forces, but not only will we express our gratitude for it, but we will be involved in all kinds of efforts, especially as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to make arrangements for their pensions, especially within the scope of our government, our government, our state and budget.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0095par0264	Bring the law, we'll support you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0265	Yes, sir, thank you very much. Mr. Oktay Vural and Mr. Muharrem Tünce, during our meeting with the group's vice presidents yesterday, told us very strongly about the demands of the police force, and we went to visit them with our chief of police. And I'd like to thank you in advance for their contribution.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0096par0267	Minister, let's not forget the owners of the estate.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0268	Now it's time for him, sir, to take turns, but first, he was asked about the police force. Indeed, the overtime costs, as you know, are paid a moving fee, but we know that's not enough. Indeed, it is not the equivalent of service. I make it very clear here, and, of course, as the Home Secretary, when our friends' shortcomings come to the attention, I also demand that other trade groups, along with them, take advantage of these opportunities. There are immediately additional demands in their style, and unfortunately, when such demands come to the agenda in Turkey...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0097par0270	The IRS is objecting.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0271	Yeah, there are other trade groups... But I'd like to say that, of course, we also care about the services of other trade groups, but the sacrifices of the law enforcement agency on this matter require that...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0098par0273	There are health workers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0274	Here, look, the health worker immediately... Yes, sir, and hopefully to the health workers, our Minister of Health will provide the necessary contribution. Mr. Vural, I'm going to see the governor and the local managers about the matter at Bingol. It is of course unacceptable for people to be exposed to thirst in such a manner, I express it in particular. In particular, I say: On March 18th, on Memorial Day, we certainly do not have such a secret sentence, nor do we have an open sentence, especially not in our time. Yeah, martyrs don't die, the country doesn't split. (AK PARTY, CHP and HP rows) In no way will that affect the slogans on this issue -- and I'm here to express it -- don't get such a misbehavior.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0099par0278	I'll let you know what's going on, who told you, who did it...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0279	Yeah, and I'll do it right away. And you can be sure of that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0099par0280	But that's enough now, sir. The PKK, the Imran... that's enough! Police are humiliated, soldiers are humiliated, murderers are valued! It really bothers me now, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0281	Yes, and I want you to know that we are definitely as sensitive about this as you are. An examination of the statements of our friend, the deputy governor of Samsun, will be conducted according to the investigation of the investigators. Of course, I'd also like to point out that since March 13th, especially March 17th, until March 21st, in many parts of our country, meetings have been held for the celebration of neuroses. I'm saying this once and for all, the ocalan posters are forbidden to praise the criminal and the criminal, it's a crime. It's been identified. In some places, the court has been prohibited from making court decisions, and in some places it has not been interfered at the time because of mass entry, but it has been identified, and they will be brought to the judicial authorities. In some places, an order is created by being reflected on the screen. This is also a crime of the meeting board, which is a crime, which has been made, has been taken, has been taken. These will also be followed by forensics.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0100par0283	Madam Secretary, the media has been quoted as saying, "Thank you. Is there any way to explain to the media that they're being followed...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0284	I'm the one on that, of course, who's bringing...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0101par0285	MIT's bringing it in? Let's know who's bringing him in.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0286	There's no reading of such a thing.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0101par0287	We're waiting.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0288	Yeah, we'll see.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0102par0289	Madam Secretary, it did not reflect on the press as you said it would, so thank you for these....... it needs to be explained.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0290	Look, whether it's a statement or a poster or a banner, whatever it is that's a crime, there's gonna be a fair process. It's the police's, the security forces'...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0103par0291	The minister was in all the newspapers, "Freedom for Öcalan" and "status for Kurds."
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0102par0292	It's a democrat. It says.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0293	Yes, they've been identified and they'll be brought to the judicial authorities.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0103par0294	They'll be released with the fourth package of judgment.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0091par0295	Yes, it was expressed by Mr. Secretary that the fourth judicial package did not mean anything like that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0103par0296	Yes, sir. It is no longer a crime to praise the PKK.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0104par0297	There's no such thing. It's already in the penal code.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0103par0298	Yes, you will.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0105par0299	Mr. Right, the conditions for being a district of Gökalp have been revised in Law 6360. Our Ministry also considers the borough of the cities that bear these conditions. Of course, the terms of being a county depend not only on a specific location, but on meeting certain conditions together. We'll consider the request of that town when it's his turn. Mr. Yilmaz, of course, illegal listening is a crime. Whoever does so is guilty. Whether the governor does it or the security guard does it, it's a crime. We'll take your bet on that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0106par0301	Not just listening, but the governor of Adana is doing everything.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0105par0302	Yeah, we'll look into that. The issue of the refugee camps' tenders is directly related to the AFAD (AFAD), which we will report to AFAD (AFAD). As a second song, you know, our Police Department is making an arrangement. My dear friends, there has been a lot of talk about police officers who have never been in law enforcement in the past, on commissions, on budget talks, on the Assembly General Assembly. Right now, there are no law enforcement officers left who didn't go to the first song. A total of 2,000 police officers will be affected by the second song, and none of those who have alibis for a period of time will be sent to the second company, and those who have asked for a loan by the governorates. The total number of people sent to the second song represents a very small number in the total number of police, such as 2,000. Mr. Vural, we have information regarding the water problem in Bingol. The first piece of information that our friends are doing right now is that the water line has been disabled due to the landslide, and maintenance is still under way. It's said it'll be over in a week, so I'm going to put it out there to speed it up. Mr. President, thank you, sir, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0107par0308	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 30. Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0108par0315	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter of the International Protection Act and International Protection Act. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, whether or not it has anything to do with politics, almost everyone is making this determination that unfortunately, it is true that our country has become the paradise of terrorist organizations operating on national or international dimensions, that violence is under control, that the most important right to live is threatened. Every morning, every evening, our nation is tired, tired of watching our dead people on television, both anxious and angry because the violence lies in front of its door, in the schoolyard, and in the emergency centers of the hospital. We see that the AKP government tasked with running the country is in an attitude that instead of coming out with the concept of a decisive and stable fight against terrorism and violence, it demeans the security forces, neutralizes the measures that security forces have built, causes violence and terrorism to buy time in a vast way. From the time the AKP came to the government, it received a balance of inefficiency, a proportion between the fight against terror and violence and human rights and freedoms. The AKP's book has never been able to destroy or eliminate terror and terrorism. Erdogan had never come to the point where, like a statesman, he could protect his citizen's life at any cost, and wipe out those who tried to kill him. Why don't you go over terror and violence by the Prime Minister himself and his predecessor, who were not considered demons who needed to be destroyed by terror and violence? Over and over again, we have warned that there is a violent and separatist terrorist organization in this country. If you love your people, if you fear God, take your precautions. In Oslo, both our national security and our people's lives are at stake, otherwise our national security and the lives of our people will be exposed. He wouldn't even look back on those words. E, what they say: "He who does not have a job in prayer does not have an eye on the temple. " For AKP, terrorism and violence will not be fought for, but will be politically motivated, even faced with our past. With a dirty understanding, such as this state's unitary structure, recurs from its glorious history. After all, thousands of people have died because of AKP's reckless, insensitive attitude. The mindset that arises, mothers should not weep. It is almost every day that the tears of parents who have lost their children have been laid on the ground for the weeping of the people's mothers. As of yesterday, there was an armed attack on the AKP headquarters and the Ministry of Justice, and this attack was on the country's agenda. First of all, as the National Movement Party, we condemn this attack with anger and hatred. We wish both the AKP and the Justice Department employees a great deal of well-being. Of course, we're all glad no one's nose is bleeding. The written and visual media in the AKP's direction suddenly launched a perception study, as if it were being co-directed from a button. The AKP, which is said to have been negotiating with terror, is the target of terrorism -- the work that has been done -- is also against terrorist organisations in this process. The solution process, then, is correct. A result like that is being tried. The AKP's and its advocacy media tend to exploit this attack immediately, while the AKP is trying to establish the perception that it is a victim, a victim, an underdog, and on the other hand, it appears that it is being tried to narrow down the containment and pressure cycle of security forces and armed forces. As the National Movement Party, we ask that the perpetrators of these attacks be exposed immediately, and we ask our curiosity: We have not forgotten that they went to large arrests against the ACK and then negotiated with the PKK and the ACK. And now you've done operations on the DHKP-C. Tomorrow, there will be new negotiations with DHKP-C, a terrorist organization as dangerous as the PKK? Is the goal of these attacks to exonerate the AKP and the Prime Minister of terrorism, and in return some of the DHKP-C members will be released? People want us to ask these questions, and they're curious. These negotiations with the PKK and the ones you're still making, these negotiations, these gestures, are also justified in doubt. We await the answer of these questions immediately and immediately. We also know that this matter has been abused. One of the AKP's pencilmasters writes in a newspaper, in its column: "How similar are the sentences of Ergenekon, which, according to the prosecutor's indictment, are the new sleeping cells of Ergenekon, which are stated to be a type of cell organization?" Mr. Prime Minister, we're used to your negotiations with terrorism. We know you've even abused these vital matters. Look, Cambaza. All of us and the entire nation see that you have put the murderer of 35,000 people in your presence to negotiate the rule of sovereignty of the country. Mr. Prime Minister, the people are aware that you're underestimating the trust they've given you, that you're abusing your mission. My advice, follow the scholarship rally on March 23rd, and listen to the national voice that will rise from there. I'm sure it'll sound more familiar than Washington, Brussels, Erivan, and Erbil. I hope this disgrace is over, and we, our state, don't deserve it. You will heed the warning, and I say, "You people of this nation, you have not been able to protect their law, you have not been able to protect the citizens of this nation, you have not been able to protect the foreigners, you have not been able to protect the citizens of this nation, you have been able to protect the foreigners. We're wondering what the AKP has accomplished that has put this nation into a dark hole, and what it will accomplish. Dear MPs, friends have just brought a tweet, the BDP MP Sırrı Sakık. In the words of BDP MP Sırrı Sakık. He says, "If you hang him after this time, you will hang Mr. Ocalan's coat on the coat stand," he says. It's our answer to those who are pampered by the AKP, saying, "President, we know what kind of seed you are." But shame on the government and the Prime Minister who made you talk like that!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0109par0327	Tell the person who said that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0108par0328	And we're warning this deputy: don't think of the hand of the people who've given you flowers and been groping. And when ye shall be struck, thou shalt take thy breath in the hand of thy enemies of men, and in the hand of thy master, the Imranite. You and your companions will keep your jacket and socks and even your pitcher. When our nation is being brought from Kenya to Turkey, I am prepared to do anything. Please don't do anything to me. He hasn't forgotten that he said anything and wet his pants. History repeats itself, Congressman. As soon as our nation gives this authority, this will be the first task of the National Movement Party. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0110par0331	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0111par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0108par0333	Are you going to defend Sakık?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0110par0334	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0111par0335	In his speech, sir, he said we were negotiating with the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0108par0336	His secret was to defend Sakık.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0111par0337	I know exactly who to defend.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0108par0338	Let's go! Defend him while you're at it!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0112par0339	Ahmet, the government answers. So the government's in charge of the talks here, Mr. Secretary, is there.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0113par0340	Mr. Aydın, I'll give you two minutes. Please, don't give me any more trouble. You're here because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0114par0344	He said a lot of things to the AK PARTY group, our Group President. Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0115par0345	He deserves it, he says.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0114par0346	Yes, dear friends, there's just been talk of a sort of reading of intent here.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0115par0347	People see what's going on, what's the point, brother? You've got words! The Prime Minister has words! What intentional reading?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0116par0348	Open the transcripts, read the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0114par0349	Someone set it up next to him, drew a script next to him, and tried to play it with a role here. Dear friends, even when condemning an attack, do you think it's appropriate to speak in a manner that would justify an attack on the AK PARTI, the attack on the national will, even this attack on democracy? You almost did this on your own. You're going to say it! That's a shame! That's almost what you're going to say.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0117par0351	It's a shame you understand!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0114par0352	The terrorist organization owns it, the terrorist organization says we've done this attack. But you're still here, under this attack, can't it be, by themselves, that it's right to make such an impression? Pity! Does this look good on you? Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0118par0353	Ahmet, tell me about this Reshadiye.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0117par0354	Mr. Aydın, shame on your understanding.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0114par0355	Dear friends, AK PARTY is a public party. First of all, you, go rally in every county, then come back and talk here. After that, come and talk.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0119par0357	It's your shame if we can't go there! If there's a place in Turkey that can't go, it's a shame!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0117par0358	Who runs this country, brother? That's what I'm saying. There's no safety, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0120par0359	We're everywhere. Look at you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0360	Don't look at this rally, this rally. We do the rally in all the provinces in the best way, in the strongest way. We've never been in a negotiation with a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0120par0361	You're in politics with Ocalan. You're threatening us, threatening us. Are you a hit man?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0362	Look, dear friends, this is the first time Turkey has gone through a serious process of resolution.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0120par0363	Are you a hit man? You're giving orders to a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0364	Turkey is in a historic opportunity. Is this kind of talk appropriate when Turkey is about to find that solution?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0122par0365	The only people who are happy are the PKK and the KCK.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0120par0366	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0367	Is it true what you're saying about our Prime Minister, Mr. Group President?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0122par0368	The only people who are happy are the PKK and the KCK. Come and hear the voice of the people.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0369	We've never been in a negotiation with a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0123par0370	I've got mayors, county presidents!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0371	But we'll do everything we can to solve this problem, and we'll do it with our people, not with this.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0123par0372	Yeah, we went there in 2011, we had a rally!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0373	We're everywhere people are, together with our nation, at the point of solving all problems, we're doing everything we can.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0124par0374	Say those words in the Lord's Square, the crowd gathered! Say it to the people!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0121par0375	I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0125par0377	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0126par0379	Mr. President, the PKK is using a language that threatens this nation directly, under the rule of law of terrorism. He uses the same expression today, just as the PKK threatened the nation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0125par0380	Thank you. He's on the books.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0127par0382	We're with our people. We're the ones who say it. We're where the nation is. We're the ones who call it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0128par0383	So, as the National Movement Party, we are all over Turkey, thank God. Today we have our agencies in Bingöl, in Yüksekova, in Diyarbakır, in Çermik, and in Bismil.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0129par0384	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0130par0385	Mr. Korkmaz, this is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0128par0386	You want to build a Kurdistan?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0131par0387	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0128par0388	You want to represent Kurdistan territory?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0132par0389	Mr. Vural, please, this is not the way!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0131par0390	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0128par0391	Your tone supports it! He's supporting this!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0131par0392	What's that got to do with it? Ladies and gentlemen of the group, please take your seats.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0128par0394	How did you get to Hakkari?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0133par0395	Mr. Vural, please sit down. Your words have been filed, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0134par0396	Mr. Suleiman says there's a little bit more over there.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0135par0397	I told that pitcher to the BDP people, why are you so offended, brother?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0134par0398	Watch your mouth!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0136par0399	That's all he used to say about our Prime Minister, our group...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0137par0400	Mr. Aydın, we don't have this kind of procedure, please sit down.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0138par0401	I didn't tell you about that pitcher, so why are you taking it personally?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0139par0402	What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0138par0403	Too bad you didn't get it! You weren't told! Pity!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0140par0404	Yes, Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0141par0405	It seems that when you hit BDP and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the AKP is disturbed. Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0140par0406	Mr. Vural, copy that, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0142par0407	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0141par0408	Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0143par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0144par0410	This is your group president, Mr. Korkmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0143par0412	Mr. President, according to 69, there's been some sort of bullying against me, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0144par0413	What'd he pick on you for? What did Mr. Korkmaz say?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0143par0414	My master can't even make it better. He said something like that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0144par0415	How come he can't do it?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0145par0416	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0143par0417	I mean, I...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0145par0418	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0143par0419	You said you did, you said you did!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0145par0420	Okay, but that's not an answer.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0146par0421	I get it, Mr. Korkmaz, now, isn't anyone here to criticize one party or the other? Where's the teasing here?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0147par0422	You, go tell your demon guides to tell the Deputy Prime Minister who's in charge of crying. Without any shame, you've been associated with the MHP President's provocations!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0148par0423	Mr. President, I condemn the attack on the AKP and Justice Department. I said, "Get well soon."
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0146par0424	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0147par0425	That's low-level politics!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0148par0426	He only twisted my words, and I want a minute's promise according to 69.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0147par0427	You will blame him, and blame him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0149par0428	I condemn anyone who's ever done anything wrong.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0150par0429	You asked for a minute because of the bullying, I'll give you a minute. Please, don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0151par0431	I mean, we condemn this attack, you misunderstand him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0152par0433	Dear President, members of lawmakers, the AKP Deputy Director who just arrived here has completely distorted my words, trying to understand what he wants to hear. But that's how anyone with a very simple and really minimal level of education should know what I mean. Look, I have stated on behalf of the National Movement Party that I condemn that attack against the AKP headquarters and the Ministry of Justice.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0153par0434	So I told him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0152par0435	I'd expect you to make a corrective speech from here on behalf of those who represent you in the face of this inappropriate analogy to the president of a party that represents national will, but it seems that the AKP and the BDP and the PKK are on the same path. When you hit someone, you hear from the AKP, the AKP, the PKK when you hit them. I present it to the people of our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0153par0437	People appreciate it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0154par0438	Yes, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0155par0439	Mr. President, we are also under suspicion of the attacks on the AKP headquarters and the Ministry of Justice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0154par0440	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0155par0443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we curse terror, violence, guns, bombs, fights. You can count on it. But do you know why people are nervous, why they're shy about it? You're responsible for this. When seven of our soldiers were killed in Reshadiye, we did it. Despite what he said, you didn't do it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0156par0445	You broke it down to the deep government.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0157par0446	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0155par0447	You broke it down to the deep government. Look, remember those days. Because Dursun is from the Resadiye, you have struck.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0156par0448	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0155par0449	So, Bulent Arinc has such explanations, and Hüseyin Çelik has such explanations. The PKK says: I did it. The AKP says: either the PKK didn't do it, there is a deep state. Also, another reason we look at it suspiciously is the matter of the assassination of Mr. Bulent Arinc. What happened? What happened? So, the matter of the assassination of Bulent Arinc, those days he cried... no defendants, no arrests, no lawsuits, no results, no nothing. You have an exit to Reshadiye. You're causing us to look anxiously, suspiciously. It's you. Otherwise, we'll feel sorry for your hair, we'll regret it, we'll condemn terror, bomb, violence, blood, we'll condemn it all the time, but please take care of yourselves. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0158par0453	Thank you. Do you have any requests, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0455	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0160par0456	There's a bomb. Yesterday Bulent Arinc made a statement, almost blaming CHP. It's like we dropped the bomb!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, of course, we, no matter who our source is, we oppose any kind of violence, we oppose any kind of attack. No one can justify an attack, not us or anyone else.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0161par0460	Are you also opposed to Ocalan the Aggressor?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0461	We're against everyone. What do you mean?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0161par0462	I'm against Ocalan the attacker. I'm against Ocalan the attacker.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0463	For God's sake, let it go! Don't make political polemics out of this. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] We oppose all kinds of terror, all kinds of attacks, all kinds of violence. No violence is legitimate, no matter where its source is, no matter who it is. Therefore, we condemn all attacks.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0161par0466	I curse Apo, the baby killer. Come on, say it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0467	In that sense, we are strongly condemning the attack on our AK PARTY headquarters and the Ministry of Justice last night.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0162par0468	Can anyone who negotiates with a terrorist condemn terrorism?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0469	But I would also like to point out that this is an attack on the national will; this is an attack on democracy.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0163par0470	I curse Apo. Let me see Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0471	This attack will never get us out of our way. Until the end, together with our nation, we will do everything in our power to solve any problem. I salute you again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0164par0474	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0165par0475	Mr. Aydın, I curse Apo. Look, you have time.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0476	I curse you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0165par0477	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0159par0478	I curse, and I curse Apoh.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0165par0479	Well, well, well, after the microphone went off...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0166par0480	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0167par0482	Mr. President, the National Movement Party has cursed all kinds of violence, terror, and demanded that they be held accountable in front of the Turkish nation as criminals. At this point today, I'm also referring the AKP to its own understanding of the PKK's terrorist organization. In this regard, none of these attacks can be justified. However, when these attacks are being carried out, I meet with the devil. The AKP's guide, Çelik, and Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, who is responsible for crying, will be provoked by the speech of our Mr. President-in-Chief, and I am underfooting and chewing.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0168par0483	Be careful with the words you use.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0167par0484	The swamp now attracts the Turkish nation, for those who seek such help from terrorism and seek such political gains from terrorism. In that sense, immediately, give up your bloody cooperation with terrorism and PKK, stop using your blood language, stop producing politics from terrorism, don't produce solutions from blood, that's our call.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0169par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0170par0486	They're already out of control.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0171par0487	These people know very well who feeds on terror.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0172par0489	Sure, he knows who's feeding. You're in business with the Imran!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0173par0490	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0174par0492	Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0172par0493	You're working with the Imran, and you're doing projects to finish the MHP! You're feeding on terrorism!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0173par0494	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0172par0495	This is an insult to the House.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0175par0496	For God's sake!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0173par0497	Mr. Vural, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0176par0499	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute the General Assembly first.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0177par0500	You are the coup d'états who have surrendered to the rule of the weapon! Those of you who can't resist the coup of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0178par0501	It is the AK PARTY, which resists all blows.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0177par0502	You're threatening people with a gun, with the coup d'état of the PKK!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0179par0503	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0178par0504	It is the AK PARTY that opposes all blows.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0179par0505	Mr. Aydın, please...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0180par0506	When you see the branch of PKK's oak tree, you're slipping away!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0179par0507	Mr. Vural... Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0181par0509	You had it in your hand, why didn't you put it up?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0182par0510	Why didn't you hang him?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0183par0511	You're the one who dropped the death penalty!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0184par0512	Congressmans, please, the Minister has asked for a word.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0185par0513	You threw a rope, threw a rope at a rally, and if you hung it, why didn't you hang it?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0186par0514	Don't play politics in the arms of the PKK terrorist organization, don't do it!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0187par0515	You're the one who dropped the death penalty! Read it, read it!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0185par0516	Why didn't you hang him?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0186par0517	Why did you vote in 2002?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0188par0518	Mr. Secretary, if you'd be so kind.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0519	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I'm afraid the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been given the seriousness of the General Assembly and the indiscriminateness of the debate.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0190par0520	Don't give us any advice!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0191par0521	Oh, look at you!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0522	This situation is extremely upsetting and hurtful.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0192par0523	Houses in the bath house...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0524	The Turkish nation today is obliged to approach issues in more unity and unity than ever before. The Turkish nation's expectations are clear, clear and clear. The Turkish nation is waiting for the solution to the terrorism problem. The Turkish nation wishes to test all possible reasonable methods for solving the terrorism problem. By ignoring the Turkish nation's expectations for the resolution of the terrorism issue...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0193par0525	Not by trampling the Turkish nation!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0526	...to take advantage of this job won't do anyone any good.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0194par0527	Well, exploiting your own duty...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0528	We've seen different political parties' views on legitimate grounds...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0194par0529	Everything's been discussed in this House, brother!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0530	...to speak in proper and proper terms. But no one has the right to insult the government of the Republic of Turkey or the Prime Minister or the members of our government with words that will not be spoken to, no one has the right to approach the issue within this framework, not the way of insulting politics.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0194par0531	Apo insulted the Prime Minister in the Imran reports, why didn't you answer?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0532	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, representing every member of the Turkish nation...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0194par0533	Why didn't you answer Apoh, in the accounts of the Imran?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0534	...a response to the Turkish nation's expectations and a vision is inevitable.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0194par0535	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0536	We don't find it right to associate you with the Republican People's Party or anyone on any basis, with PKK, separatist terrorism, traitorous ambitions towards our nation's unity and resurrection.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0194par0537	Answer the words of this Sýzýk.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0538	We don't view an accusation like that as a righteous attitude toward us, never being exposed to an accusation like that. An attack on the EC PARTY headquarters was launched yesterday by a terrorist organization and this terrorist organization claimed ownership of the attack today. In the same way, an attack was launched on the Justice Department by the same terrorist organization. It would be a mistake to consider this attack merely an attack on the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0195par0540	Please, collect your words, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0541	It would be a mistake to consider this attack merely an attack on the Justice Department. These attacks are attacks on the Turkish nation's unity; these attacks are attacks on our national unity and brotherhood; these attacks are attacks on our flag, and these attacks are attacks on the search for peace of the Turkish community. If we can see the photo from here, approach the issue from this direction, I think that as a nation, we can move our unit, which already exists on every floor, to a stronger ground.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0195par0542	Mr. Secretary, thank you. Please...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0543	Dear friends, the Turkish nation is a nation too large, strong, strong, and old to be divided by any terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0196par0545	He can't break up a terrorist organization, you interrupt!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0197par0546	And enough of your time to negotiate with the terrorist organization, the thread has been put in the market.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0189par0547	There's no need to act with fear or anxiety.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0198par0549	Thank you. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Celal Dinçer is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0199par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter of International Protection Act Bill 310, and I salute your grand delegation. In recent years, our country has become a country that has no longer been a country that produces only immigrants. There have been significant increases in the number of foreigners who have come to our country for economic reasons, education, work, and to live, as well as in the neighbouring countries and people who have taken refuge in our country because of the war and persecution of the vast region. Some of these migrant refugees and foreigners who come to our country are entering the country through regular legal means and some by irregular means. The Turkish-Greek border has been a serious transit route for irregular migration movements towards European Union countries over the past five years. Among those who have crossed Turkey and tried to reach European countries are people who have fled from war and persecution as well as from economic immigrants. On the other hand, the number of foreigners who have come to our country for purposes such as study and education, the number of refugees who have fled the wars and taken refuge in our country... have also begun to prefer Turkey to be a country of prosperity and peace in this region. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we have two basic laws that regulate the legal status of foreigners. One is the Passport Law No. 5682, and another is the Law on Housing and Traveling of foreigners in Turkey, number 5683. Both laws were issued in 1950 and were drafted according to the Constitution of 1924. The basic documents of human rights law were adopted after these laws were published. For example, the European Convention on Human Rights was adopted in 1951 and the European Convention on Human Rights in 1953. According to the Turkish Statistical Agency, the number of foreigners entering our country in 1953 reached only 91,000, reaching 29 million,704,000 people in 2012. Our country needs to be able to conduct these various migration movements with a high skill, both rational and in line with the legal state and international laws of human rights, in terms of efficient use of resources. We should view the migration phenomenon not as a threat, but as a reflection of our country's position in the international community and an opportunity. However, in the current case, Turkey has tried to be governed by foreigners, immigration and asylum, an inadequate framework of legislation that has so far failed to meet the needs, and a very limited institutional capacity. Politics and practices, unfortunately, have been created by a strategic approach and not by consistentness and procedures required by the rule of law, but by reactive approaches based on political and administrative appreciation, as in those from Syria. Already, various laws from the 1950s, which should provide frameworks for applications in this area, have never been regulated, and the gaps in the legislation are tried to be resolved by various regulations and generalities. The Security General Directorate, which has already been assigned to manage this area, is under heavy pressure from the head of the Foreign Immigration Agency, the source, the organization structure and the deficiencies of specialisation. Our law enforcement agencies are merely looking at the immigration phenomenon from a security perspective, not producing the institutional capacity and expertise necessary to manage the various migration dynamics of our country with its regular or irregular, economic or asylum-seeking dimensions. In the modern world, states address the phenomenon of migration within the framework of the concept of migration management. Migration management -- not reactive -- manages strategic policy and practices not only on border security and public order, but also on the basis of the rational management of resources, the legal state and the international human rights criteria. As a matter of fact, what's worrying us about the shortcomings I'm talking about is that in recent years there have been numerous violations against our country in the European Court of Human Rights, especially regarding practices against irregular immigrants and asylum seekers. These violation decisions are particularly related to the problems that have been faced at the point of access to asylum procedures for deportation and administrative surveillance decisions regarding people in the case of refugees who have come to our country by irregular means. I think that the International Protection Law Bill, which has come to your attention, has been a very valuable step towards meeting these problems and needs. The bill will provide the basis for all practices and procedures related to refugees who, as the upper concept of immigration, have come to our country in regular ways for short-term visits and long-term residence, and who, for various reasons, have been forced to leave their country due to war incidents with foreigners in our country, and who have taken refuge in our country. When we examine the bill in terms of content, it seems that adopted approaches and regulations are generally in harmony with the principles of the legal state and the standards of international human rights law and the norms of the European Union. The bill, in particular, provides a large amount of procedures and rules and assurances, as I have just tried to sum up the shortcomings regarding the current application. An entirely new and civilian professional institution within the Ministry of the Interior will be established, the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration, to take over the duties related to foreign immigration and asylum. The approach to taking responsibility for this area from the Security Directorate and giving it to a civilian and specialized institution is extremely accurate and positive. If this new institution is properly organised and governed by rational policies, its ability to govern our country's immigration and asylum would be significantly increased on the basis of both national interests and public order, as well as on the basis of the legal state and international human rights standards. In addition to visas and residence issues, irregular immigration management activities, asylum procedures and procedures, the bill also provides detailed regulations for the rights and benefits provided to homeless, victims of human trafficking, temporary protection in cases of public asylum, children without escort, and special needs for asylum seekers. I think that the bill is particularly positive, especially when it reflects the historical traditions of our country, which will allow people to stay in our country for humanitarian reasons, even though they may have entered our country in irregular ways, even though they were in disorganised. I would also like to submit to the transparency, participation approach adopted by the Interior Ministry and its valued bureaucrats during the drafting of the bill. In the process of drafting the bill, there has been a written and verbal exchange with both international organisations and our country's valued academics and NGOs working in this area. In particular, the constructive criticism and suggestions of our country's valued NGOs working in this area and our contributions as opposition parties to the parliamentary commissions on the bill are important. It is also very positive that the Migration Advice Board, envisioned by this bill, includes academics working in the area of immigration and asylum and NGOs. I wish this approach would set an example of similar processes related to other laws. In general, I would like to express my criticism and concerns about certain issues of the bill, as well as positive impressions and assessments, but as far as I can see, I won't have enough time. I'd like to present these criticisms to you when I'm promised in the second chapter. I wish this bill to be a blessing to our country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit04spe0200par0578	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0200par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll begin negotiations with Bill 310. The commission and the government are in place. On the first part of the bill, it belongs to İstanbul MP Sedef Küçüç. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0201par0007	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Foreign and International Protection Act bill, number 310. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I condemn the attacks on the Justice and Development Party headquarters and the Justice Department last night, condemning any acts of terrorism, and I wish to convey my sincere condolences. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my joy that we all agree that we need such a law strongly and that it comes out of the commissions with a great deal of compromise. I'm talking about all the other bills and proposals. I think this bill is very important to show us the value of the compromise we lack in our political lives. As you know, our current legislation, which regulates legal and illegal immigration movements, lacked common concepts and definitions, and was far from meeting today's needs, was a very disorganized structure. In particular, there were serious problems with defining the concepts of the refugees, the refugees, the refugees. In this regard, it is a joy that refugees, conditional refugees and immigrants have taken steps in terms of definition, acceptance and protection, the creation of an immigration and protection system in line with international human rights standards, and that our legislation is a little closer to the European Union standards. I would like to point out that I find it highly valuable in terms of international human rights to add the ban to our legislation. As you know, the problem of immigration has become one of the priority problems of the globalized world. As it concerns the whole world, this problem is of great interest to our country. Generally, our country is used as a transit country in transitioning to Europe in immigrant movements from Africa and the Middle East. Turkey has now become a target country because of the increasing economic and political problems in Africa and the Middle East. In the coming period, especially because of the process in the Middle East, this migration is expected to increase, and we need to be prepared for that, which is important in this sense. But no matter how good the Coven makes the law, it's important that they can be enforced. Speaking of which, I think we should underline some of the problems in practice. Until asylum seekers from Syria were on the agenda, Ministry and governors chose to pretend that there were no asylum seekers, refugees and immigrants in our country, ignoring the human rights dimension and dramas of immigration and asylum, these people were abandoned. Some of them didn't get a work permit, so they were put to work in a very bad way. Refugees and immigrants have been ignored in terms of detention and housing. It was also ignored that their being forced to live under such poor conditions increased the victimization of asylum seekers. You remember, there were even riots in Istanbul because they were subjected to physical and verbal abuse due to the nefarious conditions of living in foreign guesthouses, which were always practical problems. Therefore, I hope, this well-prepared, labored law will remove the problems of this practice. Dear lawmakers, the culture of this land is about helping people who are struggling. To extend a hand to the afflicted, to embrace is an important asset to our people. If people are forced to leave their country because of their race, religion, a social group, or political opinion, then it becomes the common shame of humanity. He wishes that this law, which I believe our Parliament will agree to, for whatever reason, be a solution to the problems of the people who have to live far away from their homes, that the Day of Nevruz tomorrow be blessed, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0202par0017	Thank you. On behalf of the person on the episode, Friday is Inner, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0203par0020	Mr. President, the bill we're discussing includes foreigners and people in need of international protection. As this bill was drafting, the EC PARTI ruling received opinions from academics, NGOs, international institutions, as in all matters. Turkey's increasing economic power creates a attraction for our country's migration movements, while the ongoing political chaos in its geographical region has emerged as another factor encouraging the migration towards Turkey. By the end of the period, Turkey has been a more transitional country in terms of immigration movements by foreigners, while it is increasingly viewed as a target country with the growing economic power and stability of our country, and in this context the migration towards our country will continue to increase. Turkey has faced significant migration currents in history as part of its geographical, strategic, cultural and political position. The number of foreigners who came to our country in 1995 was about 7 million, and that number was 27 million in 2010. In 1995, the number of international protection applications rose to 8,000 in 2010, while between 1995 and 2010, 829 000 irregular immigrants were arrested. This bill primarily organises foreign entry, exits, visas and residence permits. Disorganized, out-of-date, incompatible legislation in response to the problems faced, has brought regulations in accordance with our country's vision of development, in line with international norms, covering national interests, covering all aspects of the issues it is concerned with, in accordance with quality standards. The bill and the visa will prevent problems in implementation on matters related to residence permits. The subject of this bill is people who are not entirely human and not our own people, but our own people, who are willing to become our own citizens. This bill is addressed by human sensitivities, regardless of religion, language, race, sectarianism. Turkey is both the target country and the country of the route. Being a target country means Turkey is a country of prosperity, Turkey is a country of security. In the past, immigrants, illegal migrations would use us as a route from Turkey to other countries, and now there is, but much less. Our target country position has reached a higher level, which is another problem. We're supposed to be managing this problem. Modern slavery today shows a growing need for an active institution that specializes in protecting victims of human trafficking as a global social problem described as the modern form of slavery. Mr. President, valued lawmakers will be preventing violations made by the European Court of Human Rights at the same time. As a result, with our country's immigration and international protection legislation, the administrative system will be harmonised with international human rights norms and European Union acquises, providing us with the legal, administrative, physical infrastructure we need in the area of migration. In this way, a strong, manageable immigration system will be established that will protect the interests of the country and strengthen Turkey's position and honor in international relations. This bill is equally in line with the criteria of international human law, prepared in a transparent and participating process. It is important that Turkey, which has developed, developed, grew, and opened to the world, has a law on foreigners, a collective legislation. As a matter of fact, the law is intended to regulate the period of long periods of residence, residence, study, and possession of property here, as a result of a stranger's thinking of coming to Turkey in any way, and is actually well prepared in other laws about citizenship, or, in other areas of citizenship that other agencies run, to be able to enter into the field of these laws or this administration. In this sense, I thank all the friends who have worked in this law, and salute the High Council with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0204par0031	Thank you. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Mr. Halaman... no. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0205par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the most important friends of our security forces in the fight against terrorism, their comrades in arms, the village rangers. The village rangers have a serious problem with their rights, their status. They are, you know, a people whose rights have been established under a rule of the Village Law. Their pension is a disaster, they're trying to make a living on a $310 pension, and they've got about $800 now. The village rangers are not people who can be transferred into a rotation like our security guards. They live in an advent in that country because they own the land, and they're very uncomfortable with the talks on terror these days. In this framework, the village rangers are concerned whether or not we will be handed over to the terrorists. On the one hand, they want to know if you're working on their rights, their status, and we're trying to be a spokesman. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0206par0038	Thank you. Mr. Chancer, I think you're out of the system.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0207par0040	Yes, sir. My friend asked me the question.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0206par0041	Well, thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0208par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, of course, Turkey has recently been filled with terrorist organizations from the Middle East in particular. So, you see, in Turkey, when the army collapsed, there was an undersecretary of security. He's also been brought in by the Security Undersecretary to employ foreign personnel. Finally, a visa was granted to Yemen. Now, Yemen, of course, has a very important, dangerous element, where Al Qaeda is very dominant, and there are a number of people from Al Qaeda who have been brought to Syria, where they go and fight and come to Syria. It's already in the outside press. Now, first, how many people have come to Turkey from al Qaeda, Muslim brothers, Hamas? Do you guys check these out? Where do they live? I want to learn these things one by one.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0206par0045	Thank you. Mr. Eryılmaz... Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0209par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Our cop friends have big problems. Some of these are: their wages do not reflect retirement -- especially because their wages are low and their compensations are high. Their pensions are too low, they're afraid to retire. They want this fixed as soon as possible. Second, they say that there are serious problems in normal security, shortages in police stations, especially in Istanbul, when they take part in the games. That's a big problem, too. The last time I saw them was a few months ago, and I talked to them. In Istanbul, we see traffic police on the edges of the highway keeping an open watch without a sign of snow. The biggest problem with this practice, which may be necessary in terms of security and traffic flow, is that our police friends are on their feet for up to six hours. Their demand is to keep watch for a more reasonable period of time. They want an arrangement on that, too. In fact, five or six hours in winter without a car.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0210par0053	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0211par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we need to discuss something. How much did we spend on refugees from Syria? Mr. Finance Minister was sitting in your seat. He said 600 million Turkish liras. Mr. President and Mr. Bashir Atalay, I believe, says $600 million. I wonder which one's true. Can you tell the truth about that? Second question: Mr. Öpün, police officers have been complaining about the hours and the additional indicators. Do you plan to make an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0212par0059	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0213par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's something I'd like to bring to your attention once again, even if it's not during your Ministry period. On 20 August 2007, Nigerian Festus Oky, who sought asylum in the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees, lost his life by a police bullet at Beyoglu Asaiyes Bureau Headquarters. Unfortunately, three hours after this incident, the public prosecutor was informed, and one of the people who filed the report on the incident was the defendant Genghis Yıldız. There have been many similar irregularities in the investigation and trial process. What do you predict to do at the point of police officers' service training, especially for asylum seekers, so that similar defections don't happen in your day?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0214par0064	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0215par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we just asked a question, we didn't get an answer. But I'm looking at the market, colleges, schools, like an invasion of universities. The constant explosion all over Turkey is called the numasies, the freedom of the Kurds, here, the status of the accused, or the opposite... where is Turkey going? These laws come out, packages come out, pardons come out... so where's Turkey going? As Home Secretary, we'd appreciate it if you'd give us a statement on this matter.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0214par0068	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0216par0070	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you've been governor. When a governor moves, do contractors move? The governor and the builder are the same; the governor and the builder are the same; the governor and the contractor are the same in Aydın, the governor and the contractor in Adana; the governor and the contractor are the same in Adana. I have a second question: Now, about you, a letter has been written about the governor of Adana, a letter of complaint, a house raid at 3:00 a.m., 3:00 a.m. So, as Home Secretary, if a citizen of yours wrote a letter of complaint, would you print out that complainer's house at 3:00 a.m.? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0217par0074	Thank you. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0218par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the Minister: One of them is that many of our citizens, even some of our fellow lawmakers, are asking if this law will make refugees from Syria a citizen, and they have doubts whether they will vote in the elections. I ask that this be explained. Another: In addition to our police friends, our property manager friends expect a very important -- when they're retired -- 6400 additional indicators that are the problem. They want to hear it from you as Minister. Do you plan to make such an arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0219par0081	Thank you. Dear Silver... Last question.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0220par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. In Balıkesir, the public says 600 people, especially in the African-rooted center, a refugee of 15,000 across Balıkesir... we don't know if he's under shelter or status, there are foreigners with credit cards they're told to have. What is the real number of these foreigners in Balıkesir? And these... again, another conversation, do they pass on Turkish citizenship? If they're becoming Turkish citizenship, how many of them are past? Will they vote in the election? It will be effective in the region for the elections. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0221par0088	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0222par0090	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, Mr. Turkoglu asked about the village rangers, and we, as Minister of the Ministry, were very interested in this matter as well as when he was the President of the Interior Commission. The arrangement for the village rangers comes to us all the time, both in terms of pension rights and in order to improve their current conditions. Of course, it's not just for the village rangers who are on staff, but for the volunteer village rangers, there are demands that they may have to correct their conditions, such as carrying weapons and other health. As a government, we have a change in the Village Law. The changes in the Village Law will, of course, include the village rangers. We will also organise this institution -- which status they will come to in the long term, which powers they will have, will they have an arrangement in their numbers -- and there will be an arrangement to improve their pension and social rights, or to pay for their financial rights. But I can also say that the village rangers have had a very important service in the fight against terrorism, and I express my gratitude to them. Well, there's been some mistakes, but not all of them are wrong, and I'm making that very clear. The village rangers really fought heroically on this, and today they are among the major goals of terrorism. I hereby declare that we will take the necessary care as the government to improve their conditions. Mr. Young, of course, there is still no application for foreign specialists in the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0223par0093	Is there a record or not?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0222par0094	No, I'm definitely the Undersecretary of the Founder...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0223par0095	I'll check you out, but this one. If he does, I'll ask him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0222par0096	Look, I've been under the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, and there's been a law order that only employs foreign experts in the law, but I don't know if there was one at the time, but I don't know if there was...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0223par0097	Answer the truth.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0224par0098	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0222par0099	Of course I'll tell you the truth, sir, I answer to you with the responsibility of the state. I don't know if you're an expert right now, but I'll find out, and I'll have the Undersecretary brief you in writing. Now, Mr. Öğüt, yes, what you said about the police, as my fellow lawmakers have said, is true, and we just said that during this first, general chapter of answers. These watch services need to be rearranged. Of course, the terms of the seizure need to be human. In necessity, as you say, there are long-term watch services. His friends in these games... you know, the law, the security in the field, is largely transferred to private security units, but if there's an arrangement on this issue -- we've already said that -- I'll tell you that by opening this idea, not as the Home Secretary, but as a parentheses, I'll tell you in person: an additional payment to those who do that task must be paid, at least in a pool. So in sports, there's a big runt, there's a, there's a collection of money, there's a certain income, but there's a lot of security forces that don't take advantage of it. I think a pool like this should be built. I think security forces should be used from this pool. If possible, we'll make such an arrangement over time, but ideally, the police should only be authorized by general security and all other precautions should be taken into special security. Mr. Serindağ, of course, Syrian refugees have no right to vote. And since they're not citizens, they're voting...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0225par0104	They're moving on to citizenship, Minister. That they were accepted into citizenship.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0222par0105	Now, the subject of citizenship, you know, is about those who have certain conditions, but so we don't have the right to apply them to this kind of collective citizenship right now. The conditions for the transition to citizenship may be an individual transition if they are responsible.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0226par0106	Minister, for years...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0225par0107	I'm asking how much is in Balıkesir? How many refugees are there? How long has he been a citizen?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0227par0108	Will they vote in the election?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0109	Sir, those who are not citizens of the Republic of Turkey are, of course, unable to vote.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0225par0110	How much is accepted?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0111	I'll give you a written answer about those who have been accepted into citizenship. But right now, my friends have informed me that there are 890 defectors in Balıkesir who have been granted a free residence, but I'll give you the information on the citizenship you're describing in writing.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0229par0112	Mr. Minister, if these Syrians are to be made citizens, it would be a shame for the Ahýska Turks who have been waiting to become citizens for years. There are Ahiska Turks who sit on residence for five years and ten years.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0113	My dear friends, of course, those who are from Syria are now being held by temporary housing status or by a directive issued in this regard. When this law comes out, their status will now be transformed into temporary housing status, which is subject to the law rather than the directive. But I'm telling you again: the provisions regarding citizenship in Citizenship Law 5902 are different. There are exceptional provisions for immediate removal of those conditions, which are subject to a fixed period of residence. There is no such thing as an exception at the moment, but after a period of residence or because of a family situation, application to citizenship should not be considered as a collective application. I repeat, there is no problem with voting. Of course, by the way, our staff, our police officers' working hours, their shift systems were eight to twenty-four in our 36 counties in 2013. He's connected to a pretty human shift system around 00. Of course, the heart desires it in our 81 provinces, 08:00-24. Let's do it in the form of 00.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0230par0115	My question was about the expense.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0116	I'll fix it right now, I'll...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0231par0117	That was my question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0118	Let me answer as Mr. Dinçer's question: According to our knowledge from AFAD, the total amount spent is 768 million,689,783 TL. This is the information we received from AFAD. The aid from other countries is 59 million 94,827 U.S. dollars. As aid from the United Nations, it is also $28,906,716 EU dollars. Mr. Dinçer, by the way, I forgot to answer you in the previous question. I'm sorry. Of course, we also have a study on the rise of additional indicators from 5800 to 6400, at least from first - grade property managers. Hopefully, we'll consider it at the budget level. I've received your claims about Adana. Of course, there's no changing the contractor. In terms of free competition... of course, a contractor can tender all over Turkey, but what is important is the creation of competitive conditions according to the Public Contraction Act.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0232par0121	They printed it at 3:00 a.m....
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0122	Yes, if there is such a thing, it is, of course, the public contract law...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0233par0123	It's like a sweet coincidence!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0124	Yeah, I'll take that into consideration, of course. And let me tell you, there's no such thing as interfering with a complainant. There's the freedom to complain, there's the freedom to search for rights, there's the right to petition, so whatever his adjective is not allowed to do that to anyone.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0234par0126	The cops busted it at 3:00 a.m.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0127	No one, including me, has that authority. Charge him immediately, and we'll do as we're told.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0234par0128	We're asking you for an inspector.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0228par0129	Aye. Now, Mr. Erdemir, this earlier incident, of course, is unfortunate. There have been administrative and disciplinary investigations concerning this, and the matter has been decided by the judicial authorities. Of course, in refugee applications, it is now a law that regulates a great deal of what to do, what not to do, what to do, what to do. Of course, our police are continuing their training in this sense with service training and zero tolerance for torture. As for those who do not do so, they will not be punished. We know that there's been some difficulties in our universities lately, and we're doing the necessary intervention. No matter where the vigilante act is, we'll do what's necessary. Mr. President, I've exceeded my time, but thank you very much for understanding.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0235par0133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, negotiations on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion in Article 1 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Common 310 Orders of Foreign Affairs and International Protection Act We demand and demand that the reference written in the article be changed to the request. Ali Serindağ Kemal Ekinci Celal Dinçer Haydar Akar Kadir Gökmen Öğur İhsan Özkes Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0236par0146	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0235par0147	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0237par0148	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0235par0149	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0238par0151	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to the 1st amendment to the bill of law 310 rows. My respects to all of you. Dear lawmakers, of course, this law is a very important law. Turkey is in a very important geography regarding the foreign transit area. It's been a long time since we've had great migrations to this geography. For example, after the Aleppoce massacre in 1991, 500,000 Kurds came to Hakkari. Ozal was in charge at the time. They weren't allowed in. We went then, and took them in from Hakkari. But then Europeans, of course, don't make the slightest sacrifice when it comes to their own accounts... you know, Madame Mitterand was the greatest protector of the Kurds. Sir, here are the French, the Germans... you don't pay attention to them at work. They said, "Why aren't you paying attention?" Then we said, "My brother, since you have such a strong sense of humanity, you love so many people, take 20,000 of those who have come. None of them has taken one person. Of course, big games are being played on Turkey all the time, but big migrations are coming to this geography. While we show the proper interest in these migrations... For example, one of the most important nations here is these Ahjussi Turks. I went to Moscow for the first time around 1989. At that time, on a winter's day, I remember the Ahýska Turks had arrived, and they told us about their situation. He's in a lot of trouble. So, back in the days of the Soviet Union of Socialist Republics, these people were really led to a great migration, a great torture, a landslide, a family of our own. But then... So, of course, since then, when these people have told us about their complaints, let's give these Ahiska Turks an opportunity in Turkey. We said, "Let's give them an opportunity in Turkey." And then, in 1992, a Law number 3835 was passed. They've been removed, but they haven't been given a great deal of opportunity. Now, in 2007, the Council of Europe made a decision to send these Ahiska Turks back to their original territory in Georgia, but they have five counties and 200 villages in Georgia. Most of these villages are inhabited by Georgians and Armenians, but neither the Georgians nor the Armenians are giving up their territory. Unfortunately, the state of the Republic of Turkey doesn't own them either. For him, I think he should use his power to restore the land of these Ahýska Turks in Georgia, to maintain the dignity of the state of the Republic of Turkey, as these laws on foreigners were first passed. In addition, the degree of the children who studied there when these Ahiska Turks arrived in Turkey is not acceptable to university counterparts. You have to make sure of that. Besides, they can't use social security insurance, they can't borrow money, and I think it's necessary to provide that. So instead of going first, we need to protect the rights of others, of the Syrians, of the people from other places, of the people of our own origin, of our descendants. For that reason, I think the government should take care of this immediately. He must relieve these woes of the common Turks. Turkey has over 100,000 Turks. I'm also interested in some of these people's problems from time to time. But, of course, it's the government that's going to do it, the government is in power, the people who are using power, and I think the implementation of the Council of Europe's decisions should be done in Georgia. Again, these people should be granted temporary residence. They should also be given some advantages in business opportunities. In order for these people to end their tortures from the 1940s, they must at least feel comfortable at least making Turkey their home. Our proposal isn't important, whether you accept it or not, it doesn't matter, but what's important is that I've said these things to stress the burden of these Ahjussi Turks. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0239par0160	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0240par0164	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit05spe0239par0165	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Akar, Mr. Küyük, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Ayayyım, Mr. Atici, Mr. Çam, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Silver, Mr. Species. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0239par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call, held before the vote of Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ and his friends, was not enough. Now I'm going to do the roll call again. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 310 Orders of Foreign Affairs and International Protection Act 2. Article 1. We demand and demand that the article in the joke be changed to the imediately. Ali Serindağ Kemal Ekinci Celal Dinçer Haydar Akar Kadir Gökmen Öğur İhsan Özkes Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0241par0025	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0239par0026	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0242par0027	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0239par0028	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 2 of the International Protection Act and Article 310 of the International Protection Act. My respects to all of you. Of course, I didn't just finish my conversation with the Ahjussi Turks. Now, for this government to be such a fantasy, here, let the Armenians come, let the Greeks come, let them come back. I mean, man, life first, then canan. So I'm very uncomfortable with this government, especially with things that support the government of this AKP, the Turkish word. However, the Turkish word does not represent a race; it is a synthesis of a society living in Turkey; so, Turkish, Kurdish, Armenian...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0244par0033	No one's bothered by the Turkish word.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0034	You guys are so uncomfortable.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0245par0035	We don't bother at all, we don't mind the Ahjussi Turks. You're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0036	You're very uncomfortable. So that's why I'm saying that... well, now, we all know you. Didn't Erdogan tell you that I've taken this nation under my feet, that I'm crushing it. Did he or did he not say that? He just said it. What's more, I mean, now, under the feet... And one of them says, "Ey Tayyip, his mother did not give birth to anyone who would trample on his people." I mean, no foot can get in the way of the Turkish nation, but you're gonna crawl under your feet, so you know that, and I'll tell them that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0245par0038	The flag's behind you, look behind you!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0039	Yeah, look, I'm talking to your benefit. The state of the Republic of Turkey has been destroyed. Tomorrow, we'll see if there's a state in the Republic of Turkey, whether there's a state in Turkey or not. Now, the Minister is sitting here, let's see what flags fly here. Will your cop be out on the street tomorrow, your flag hanging somewhere tomorrow? We'll see tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0245par0041	The flag's behind you, look at two!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0042	Now, gentlemen, let's be human, let's face it. People who aren't human don't accept the truth. We'll see tomorrow. I asked the Home Secretary a question today. I'll be here at this time tomorrow, and I'll ask the person responsible for the actions made here in Turkey. So, now, look, what are you doing? You've disbanded the army, more or less, disbanded the entire command. Now, you've formed an undersecretary of Security. You have brought a clause there: the foreigners can also be employed. Now, you have brought them as strangers, I ask you, the Minister is not answering. You have brought a man from al Qaeda, and brought him from the Muslim brethren, and brought him from the Taliban, and brought him from Hamas, and you have given them an armed force in the police force. So tomorrow, we'll see where people like this will commit massacres in Turkey. Now, today at work, DHKP-Cbooked the AKP headquarters with a lava gun. Friends, didn't Erdoğan tell our president that I'm even checking your breathing?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0246par0046	When did he say that?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0047	Doesn't Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who controls the breathing of the leader of the main opposition party, know which organization is in Turkey with what weapons? In the past, two officers were captured while they were in Manisa, and they went to kill Bkent Arinc. Well, if this DHPK-C really thinks of an assassination, why would he go to Denmark and shoot there? It's all a consulting fight. You want to change the agenda in Turkey. You're always trying to trick people in Turkey by changing the agenda in every move aimed at destroying Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0247par0048	Do you know what you're talking about?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0049	I'm telling you the truth. Look, gentlemen, these positions come and go. This country has to be permanent. Your children live in this country too. You're leaving a Turkey that's so destroyed, it can't happen, guys! You've surrendered to outsiders in every way. Today, a foreign king comes and says: "Tayyip Erdoğan is trying to bring the Muslim brothers like Egypt to power in Turkey. " Is it true or wrong? Right. You can't...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0248par0051	Don't believe everything they say.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0243par0052	Now, there are some beards among you, and they say, we want them too, and we want the Muslim brothers to come, and the Taliban to rule this land. These people will teach you a lesson. We're going out on the street tomorrow, and I know that you're not the government this nation deserves. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... thatyou have betrayed this republic. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0249par0057	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0250par0058	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0249par0059	The speaker said that we were very disturbed by the Turkish word, that we had brought these people under our feet in his speech.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0251par0060	It's the release of the substance.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0250par0061	I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0251par0062	Why do you promise, Mr. President, for the price of the asset?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0250par0063	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0252par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. For once, of course, this nation always gives everyone the lessons they need, but everyone has to take that lesson and memorize it. People's lessons are obvious, and in every election, people teach this lesson.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0253par0068	Look, there's an incident, sheriff: don't judge until you see the fate of no one.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0252par0069	Second of all, these attacks have been fought with advice. Look how painful, how ugly, what a meaningless expression. Just now, your group's vice president has kindly stated that he condemns these attacks. The entire group of vice presidents, everyone, no matter where they came from, no matter where they came from, they said they were against any kind of attack, any kind of violence. Don't you think it's rude to get up and fight with counsel on the basis of such attacks? Isn't that rude? You said non-humans don't accept the truth. People who aren't human don't accept the facts, and I'm telling you, you need to see the facts. Those who are not men do not see the truth, but those who are men see the truth, and see the truth.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0253par0071	The liar's house burned down, nobody believed it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0252par0072	This flag is here, we will preserve and defend it forever, together, this nation, this country. We call it one country, one state, one flag, and we work for this nation, dear friends.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0253par0073	Tell me the names of the people. What people? What nation is that?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0252par0074	You see this flag. We're talking about history unity, culture unity, a nation that has fought under common values in the past; this nation is the nation of all of us.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0253par0075	Do not be afraid of the Turkish word. That nation is a Turkish nation. Tell me the names of those people. Don't be shy, Turkish people.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0252par0076	We're against racial nationalism. We don't have the slightest trouble, the slightest hostility against these people. On the contrary, we're trying to raise people's values. We're trying to get these people to rise to the level of murky civilization. We're against all kinds of ethnic nationalism. It's racism, fascism, ethnic nationalism.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0253par0078	Tell me the name of this nation if you've got the heart.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0254par0079	Tell me the names of those people.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0252par0080	We have absolutely no intention of any other nation, of any other nationalism. Nationalism is about serving this nation. If you serve this nation, you are a nationalist. If you don't serve the nation, if you're a nationalist in spite of the nation, it's not nationalism. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0255par0083	Thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd edition of the International Protection Act and the International Protection Act. Article 1. We request and demand that the declaration of the document of the joke be changed as a permit. Celal Dinçer Haydar Akar Muharrem Light Turhan Tayan Engin Özkoç Ali Serindağ Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Aytun Çıray Akyan Erdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0256par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0255par0102	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0257par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0255par0104	Engin Özkoç, MP of Sakarya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0106	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, friends, dear friends, why are we arguing? Look, I'll tell you something from the seat of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and you can deny it. Didn't the world see that, in this world, there was a lie: Iraq is a Muslim country? It was a Muslim country. For years in Iraq, there are nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons. Didn't imperialism enter Iraq or not? He's in. What did Turkey do? Is there an audience left?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0259par0108	They prayed to American soldiers!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0109	I've got it. Did American soldiers enter Iraq scan the minarets with machine guns? He scanned it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0259par0111	He's scanned, he's scanned!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0112	Did he scan the mosques? He scanned it. Did he kill the Muslims?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0260par0113	One million people!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0114	He did. What did Turkey do? Is there no audience left? The audience stayed. Did he rob millions of Muslims naked, pile them up, shit on the dog, spread his paintings around the world? He did. Has he disgraced the world of Muslims? He did. Did he put a bag over our soldier's head? He did. Did Turkey witness the destruction of Iraqi refugees? Okay. What did Turkey do?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0261par0115	Not Turkey, AKP power!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0116	Didn't he wish the American soldiers well? Didn't he, guys? Sir...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0262par0117	He did!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0119	Did he pray?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0263par0120	Tell me about Assad.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0121	Guys, I'm sorry... My dear friends, in the early days of Libya's confusion, should NATO intervene in Libya. What the hell is NATO doing in Libya? Did the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey tell you? He did.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0264par0123	Say what you have to say about the substance, brother, say what you have to say, say what you have to say.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0124	And don't get angry, brother. Why are you getting angry? Look, I've got time, I'm talking, don't get angry. Did the planes from Turkey bomb Muslims without saying "kids"? He bombed it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0265par0126	Assad, Assad.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0127	I'm coming, Assad. Were Muslims slaughtered? He's been murdered. Libyan refugees scattered all over the world? They're scattered. What did Turkey do, guys? He watched. Well, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0266par0129	Who evacuated 33,000 people? Who brought the Turkish workers here?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0130	When people were killing Muslims in Syria, did the Prime Minister of Turkey hold him as a friend of mine, as a brother? He hugged me.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0267par0131	So Assad was killing his citizens? Why don't you tell me? Shame on you. Shame on you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0268par0132	Now you're hugging.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0133	Did they and his wife live together in the palaces? They sat down. After that, did he tell her you're not my friend? He did.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0269par0134	Assad wasn't bombing then, he's bombing now.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0135	Has he declared him the head of terrorism now? He did. Do they now watch millions of Muslims die there? They do. Now, I ask you from this bench: has the Muslim world ever witnessed this much betrayal since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey? No, he didn't. Has he ever witnessed so many Muslim massacres? No, he didn't.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0270par0136	Who's going to the man who killed 70,000 people?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0258par0137	Has he ever allowed so many Muslim children to be killed by his women? No, it didn't. And I ask you, friends, have you ever seen any other government that accepts the murder of their son, 60,000 children so quickly? No, you haven't. Shame on you!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0271par0140	Woe to you!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0272par0141	You went to the man who killed 70,000 people!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0273par0142	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interviewed 310 Rows of Strangers and International Protection Act 4. Article 1 of the article. We demand and demand that the idea of the joke be changed to the idea of the idea. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Haydar Akar Muharrem Light Muharrem Fine Aytun Çıray Engin Özkoç Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Aykan Erdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0274par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0273par0158	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0275par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0273par0160	Muharrem İnce, Yalova MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. This country has suffered terror for thirty years. No one, no one wants to drive a terror. We want peace in this country too. But surrender is one thing, peace is another. Let's go back to '99 for a moment. There's a terrorist group leader on board. He says: "Whatever the Turkish state wants, I am ready to help. I am ready to help." From a point where the wife has reached the prime minister's point today.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0277par0166	Thanks to you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0167	The wife arrived at the prime minister's post today. You're on your knees against a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0278par0168	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0169	Look, you're arguing about who leaked the reports. It doesn't matter who leaked the records, it matters what the reports say. Look, there's a writer, he says to a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm writing to a member of the Constitutional Commission, and I'm writing to you. He says, "I'm writing to you." Look, my dear friends, this is beyond politics. It's -- I'm telling you -- it's more than just AKP, CHP, MHP. Don't you guys really see where we're going? So at this point, the leader of the terrorist organization, who has written the definition, has tomorrow's address to the nation. The squares are now painted red, yellow, green. Photos of the murdered PKK people have been hung. The governorship says it's down. They don't come down from there. You have no dominion tomorrow. What are you talking about? You don't have a flag in there. It's over. You're showing me the flag here.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0279par0172	You take that flag there!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0173	You're showing the flag here, Ahmet Aydın, Deputy Director of the Group. I'm telling you pictures of the PKK people there, and you're showing me the flag in the Grand National Assembly. You can't say people's names.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0280par0175	It's everywhere, everywhere!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0176	Look, in this country, he couldn't enter the House because he put on the Ataturk scarf, and tomorrow people will challenge him with the posters of Abdullah Ocalan. Tomorrow, Turkey prepares to address the nation. He's in great preparation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0281par0178	You also created Abdullah Ocalan!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0179	Are you kidding me? Don't you guys really see that? It's not called peace, it's called preparation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0282par0180	They're sleeping in ignorance, don't be silly!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0181	You've fooled people for years. There will be bombings of mosques in your secondary canals; there will be no, there will be no, there will be a coup. There will be tears, and there will be assassinations. Nah, he could not keep two crokis in his hand. He swallowed it with water, and that's what happened. You have brought in all the people who oppose you, all the people who want to defend the republic - general, journalist, professor, MP, anyone who opposes you. You kept the fan so wide...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0283par0183	Tell me what country February 28th was in.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0184	All your preparations were to forgive the leader of the terrorist organization. You'll forgive him. Look, it's gonna be your vote. The plague of this is on you, the plague of this is on you. The result is amnesty. Turkey is heading this way. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Stop talking to me, for God's sake. Look, you've already shut down the TRT 3/3, so stop beating around the bush. I'm not doing this for votes, I'm doing this for the future of my country. I'm trying to explain, 50 times, 100 times, and I'm saying that you surrendered.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0283par0187	Why don't you show me the reasons that gave birth to them?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0188	I'm saying, "Can you go in there?" I'm telling you, no matter what party you're from -- BDP, MHP, CHP, AKP, come to Yalova, be my guest, Yalova, your hometown. It's my shame if you don't get in there. Why can't you come in there to me? If I can't go in there, then you are the government, and you haven't been able to keep me safe; you've given up your sovereignty there. We'll see tomorrow, we'll see tomorrow. Look, my dear friends, this is not the way you enter; you will regret this way. Give up this surrender.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0283par0190	We didn't surrender in any way, don't worry!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0191	We want a solution, we want peace, but what you're doing...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0283par0192	1,500 terrorists were killed in 2012.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0193	You surrendered in the bargain. We don't know what you're giving, we know what you're taking, you want to take the presidency, that's all... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but we don't know what you gave him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0284par0196	They don't know.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0276par0197	History will not forgive you. What you give will be revealed, you won't be able to come out in public! Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0285par0200	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0286par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0285par0202	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0286par0203	He said we were on our knees in front of a terrorist organization, and he said a lot of things like the wife prime minister, and I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0285par0204	I promise you two minutes of bullying, Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0287par0207	Say the names of the people first, we're waiting.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0210	Look, guys, we've heard it, so please listen to it. Let's hear it first. For once, know this, the AK PARTY has stood up to all the bullies, all the beatings. No one can give us instructions, no one can give us instructions, but we do so by the direction of the nation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0287par0213	Tell me which people, which people.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0214	There are Turks in this nation, there are Kurds in this nation, Laz, Çerkek...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0287par0215	What people are they? Djibouti people?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0216	There's a common history, there's a common culture, this nation is our nation, this nation is everyone's nation.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0287par0217	What's everybody's name?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0218	This nation has made its own definition.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0287par0219	What are those people's names?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0220	He's done it with her since the past. Please, if you know how to listen...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0287par0222	Tell us the names of those people, and we'll hear the rest.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0223	You make it look like they didn't happen with your words. Where are you in this solution? We want a solution, too.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0289par0224	What solution?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0225	What solution are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0290par0226	You're dissolving.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0227	There's an image that feeds on the problem. Is there a solution?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0291par0228	What are you figuring out?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0229	What in God's name have you done to solve this problem?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0292par0230	We didn't sell it, we didn't sell it like you did.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0231	So, who's responsible for this problem? Isn't that the only party mentality of CHP? Isn't it the CHP itself who ignores differences, who discriminates ethnically?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0292par0232	You haven't said Turkish people in two hours, so what are you figuring out?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0233	Isn't it the CHP itself who brought rejection, denial, assimilation policies to this country and divided this nation? You've already divided this country in your heads, divided it in your heads. By not going to that area...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0293par0234	We're there. Who went to the nation?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0235	...you've already interrupted the problems of people in that area. Well, you say Turkish flag, Turkish flag. Who did you hold the Hakkari rally with, was there a Turkish flag at your rally, was it at the Hakkari rally?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0293par0237	There was, like lions.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0294par0238	I forgive you Ahmet, you said Turkish flag.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0239	You won't get anywhere with slogans. You guys are draining the Republic.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0293par0240	Do you have any?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0241	The Republic is with the people; the republic is with the people. A republic without people in it can never be thought of. For the people, for the nation, we'll all be in politics together. Please, friends, Turkey has caught a historic opportunity.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0295par0242	What opportunity? What an opportunity, a chance to sell.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0288par0243	Look, we're gonna take this problem off our agenda, and we're gonna drop it, God willing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Whether you like it or not, our nation and I will overcome this process, this blood, this tear will end.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0297par0248	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0249	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, you are the founder of the terrorist organization, the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0297par0250	Here you go, Mr. Slim. Because of the bullying... Looks like this'll be going on till morning.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we're talking about terrorism, so it's been 30 years. So don't be funny, don't say one-party period, and don't go back seventy-eight years. Over thirty years, eleven years of these thirty years, you own more than one third of them.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0298par0255	Your conclusion, your conclusion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0256	In 2002, terror was over, where you came from was the surrender point.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0257	Where did the terror end?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0258	Look, we've heard about this a lot. In 1956, when the People's Party was closed in a court day due to the Civil Code, the CHP opposed it, the Party said, "Don't shut down the party." The Democratic Party MPs said, "You are a legal party." In 1961, when the Democratic Party MPs were banned from politics, the CHP opposed them, and the soldiers were angry with CHP. When Deniz Gezmiş and his friends were sentenced to death in 1971, this parliament went to the CHP Constitutional Court, said that the people who worked the land, the people who used the water were called communists this time. When we defended the prisoners in Silivri, when we defended the patriots there, when you put the people who opposed you there to take revenge, to take revenge, to bring them to their knees, we opposed him. We have a principled stance, and this time you call us fascists, and you call us transgressors. In the past, you have said the evil man, you have said the communist, and today you say the fascist, the coup artist. You're the fascist, you're the coupger. You want to do a civil coup, you want to bring institutions to their knees, conquer, transform, transform.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0259	Yeah, tell people, people. Listen to what everyone's saying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0260	We have a principled stance, you don't know the principle, you don't know the principle...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0261	Listen to what people are saying, people are saying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0296par0262	...you don't know about the spine, the upright posture.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0264	What's he saying in the trunk, people? Look at him.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0300par0265	If you could just hear what the rest of them are saying, God forbid you should hear what the rest of them are saying.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0266	Look what everyone's saying in the trunk.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0300par0267	If you could just hear what the rest of them are saying, God forbid!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0268	We know, we're traveling, don't worry.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0300par0269	God forbid you should hear what he's saying!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0299par0270	God forbid.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0300par0271	The rest of you are saying bad things, just so you know.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0301par0272	Thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 310 Orders of Foreign Affairs and International Protection Act 5. Article 1. We demand and demand that the joke be changed to the terms of the reference to "vesikas." Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Haydar Akar Muharrem Ilk Turhan Tayan Aytun Çıray Engin Özkoç Aykan Erdemir Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0302par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0301par0291	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0303par0292	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0301par0293	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0304par0294	Aykan Erdemir will speak.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0301par0295	Aykan Erdemir, MP of Bursa.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0305par0296	Dear lawmakers and our valued citizens watching us on computer screens have proposed an arrangement for the ban on discrimination. In the European Union's Compliance Commission, we have predicted an addition to the existing law and the basis for which discrimination can be held and what measures may be brought about. Now you will say: Why did you recommend such an arrangement? Let me speak of the arrangement that we have proposed immediately. Gender, race, color, ethnic, social, or national origins, accessional features, language, religion, faith, sexual orientation and gender identity, philosophy and political opinion, civil state, community, wealth, pregnancy, health care, disability, age, and so forth. People applying for asylum, refugees...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0306par0299	What's that got to do with the proposal?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0305par0300	Let me tell you what this has to do with our headshot.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0306par0301	You know, in your proposal, you're like, "Vesika" in your proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0305par0302	What does that have to do with anything? Let's try to explain it to you. Look, on August 20, 2007, Nigerian Citizen Festus Oky was killed by a bullet fired from a police gun in Beyoglu district. At the time, the Interior Minister was Ottoman Sun, the neutral Minister of Interior. Nine days after the incident, he handed over the mission and Minister of Interior Bashir Atalay continued. During the time of these two ministers, I believed that none of us would approve. It was so dire that it took the D.A. three hours to get called to the police station. In the process, the evidence was blacked out. The coroner is a police officer with a gunshot wound from his gun. The shirt of the murdered Festus Okey has been lost. Why was that important? Because that shirt was the most concrete evidence to show whether the shot was made consciously or not, and unfortunately, the state lost the evidence entrusted to it, and then in the process of judging it, many politicians had an opposing explanation for this Nigerian immigrant's case, they had statements to influence the judiciary. Festus Oky was killed as a result of the discrimination that I just mentioned, which you don't fully understand. The fact that he was Nigerian, he was black, he was poor, he was an orphan, he was an asylum seeker, there was no family members, there was no one to take care of him, maybe he was an orphan, and maybe he was doomed, and that's how the legal process went on. That's the real significance of this law on immigrants, asylum seekers, demanding international protection. I mean, it's a protection for what we call an orphan, what we call a weak person. A similar incident took place again at Courage Aigbedion, an employee of the Nigerian Central Bank. On October 17, 2012, he was beaten. He was a black immigrant from Nigeria again, an irregular immigrant. Although he was beaten to death, he was kept in police custody for three weeks in Kumkapi, and later, when he lost his life, an excuse was made: Courage Aigbedion was HIV positive and died of respiratory failure. What combines both cases is that I think that one person's race, nationality, identity, financial power, health care can be the basis of discrimination against him, and if we want to have a comprehensive protection and regulation of immigrants in our country, we should have clearly added the discrimination ban into these substances. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0307par0309	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 310-Squad Aliens and International Protection Act. Article 1. We demand and demand that the statement in his joke be changed. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Ayşe Nedret Akova Engin Özkoç Muharrem Aykan Erdemir Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Ali Özgündüz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0308par0322	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0307par0323	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0309par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0307par0325	Celal Dinçer has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0310par0327	Thank you. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have just explained to you how necessary and useful the law is, but I told you that it has some problems, and that I would mention that in my later talks. Now, let's make a determination first. Why do you need it? The European Court of Human Rights has filed a total of 30 lawsuits against Turkey over deportation and extradition of criminals since 1991. In this case, violations have been made against Turkey. As a result of these violations, 295 million 387,000 euros have been paid, and I want to point out, 295m euros. Gene, you'll see better how much our country has embraced illegal immigrants in the last 17 years, 921 million and 86 people have illegally entered Turkey. Now, I ask you, how did all these people get through these borders? There may be a lack of context, but I'd like to point out here that there's a weakness. Hopefully, once this law is passed, these flaws will never happen again. Turkey's total border door is 141. The length of these 141 doors is 11.433 kilometers per kilometre. That's why this law must be passed and enforced. The bill makes very detailed arrangements on the issue of asylum expressed by the concept of international protection. However, the geographical limitation policy that we established in 1951 is still being maintained. With this constraint, there is a particular issue that will come to Turkey from outside the European Union, where asylum seekers are not considered refugees. This geographical constraint stems from a check we put in the 1951 Geneva Convention. This law gives only temporary asylum in Turkey if it does not lift our reservations. This also appears to be a lack of law. In other words, asylum seekers from Europe, European-class countries are considered refugees in Turkey, can receive residence permits as they please, and can receive work permits. However, the number of people from Europe to Turkey is scarce. Where does it come from more often? It comes from countries such as Syria, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Somalia, Europe, which does not satisfy this lack. Dear friends, of course, the people we consider refugees have a residence permit in Turkey, but we're sending people we don't accept as refugees to countries like the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Canada, Australia. However, for example, about 17,000 asylums were applied to Turkey in 2011, and only about 5,000 of them were sent abroad to Australia, Canada, within the quota sent by the United Nations. The rest remain in temporary status in Turkey again. Since these people who remain in temporary status are not allowed to work, they are either working under difficult conditions, under very bad conditions, or working as slaves. It's also subject to various treatments that our friend has just mentioned, which are discriminated against. Hence, we benefit from removing the geographical limitation principle. Since the current bill has not solved the geographical limitation, I'd like to point out that this lack exists. Another important issue was that until now there were no objections against deportation decisions, which was contested by this bill. However, the 15-day deadline for appeal of decisions is very poor, and there are difficulties with legal aid. I'd like to point out that there are some things that need to be corrected, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0311par0336	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 310-Squad Aliens and International Protection Act, which is currently in session, is 7th. Article 1. We demand and demand that the declaration of the joke be changed by not being allowed. Celal Dinçer Ayşe Nedret Akova Ali Özgündüz Muharrem Illum Engin Özkoç Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0312par0349	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0311par0350	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0313par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0311par0352	Levent Gök, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0314par0354	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are the ideas and ideas on all our minds beyond the law that we've been discussing at this time of night. Where is Turkey going and what will happen? The question is in the heads of all our citizens and in the heads of all of you. Dear lawmakers, it's very difficult to build a country, build a state, it's very difficult to make it live, but it's very easy to destroy. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded modern Turkey, and his friends founded our country, the Republic of Turkey, on three main ideals, after a war of independence against imperialism 90 years ago. One is to advance our country at a point where it will reach the level of modern civilization; the second is to rely on public sovereignty, and the third is to establish a secular republic. The founding philosophy of our government has been shaped on these three main axes and has tried to come to this day. Dear MPs, during this process, Mustafa Kemal and his friends have created a nation from a community society. We need to evaluate and examine the importance of this concept on the issues we are discussing today: the concept of Ummet. So if you shape a country in an Islamic union, you're facing problems that are faced today in Middle Eastern geography that countries can't overcome. The great Ataturk saw it years ago. He saw clearly that the problem would be solved in a nation's understanding, not in a nation's understanding, and he formed and shaped the Republic of Turkey out of the concept of a nation's axis and community with the distinctive property of all Muslim countries in the Middle East. Now, at this point where we're discussing these concepts, I wish and I want all of our MPs to think about this not once, but a thousand times. Where can our country go when we are separated from these principles, when these principles are shaken? I'm sure you're all having second thoughts, doubts. Think a thousand times, my dear friends. We're not dealing with an easy problem, the Republican People's Party has always declared that there is a party ready to put its hands on the stone to end the terror problem in our country, but the solution to this problem requires an understanding that embraces our entire geography. The work of power is beyond that understanding, and no conflict in the world has been carried out in a country like our country. I hope and wish that the ruling party will see these mistakes, inform the opposition, inform the public, in a transparent understanding, will try to move this process, but know that the Prime Minister's point is based on a presidential understanding that he has shaped in his own head beyond the solution. There's no democracy in this presidential concept, there's no human rights in this presidential understanding, there's no freedom of journalism in that understanding. He has a sense of journalism, and the owner of a newspaper goes to the Prime Minister, and leaves that journalist that you don't like, and I close my paper. In a country he calls democracy, human rights and democracy in Turkey, my dear friends are not mentioned. You're in very dangerous waters, these waters certainly won't get you to a healthy harbor. We all have to cooperate here, co-operate, defend parliamentary democracy to the end. Of course, the parties that agree with each other on this matter need to explain to the public exactly what they think. And the vague rhetoric of the Peace and Democracy Party about the presidential regime is not enough, it needs to be explained. What are you negotiating? Mr. Ahmet Aydın says you can't go east of our country. I say to all of you, let's go with me to Ulidere tomorrow. I don't think any AKP MP would go to Uludere.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0315par0360	We're there every day.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0314par0361	Are you in, my dear friends? Are you in? The BDP people are also silent about it, and the BDP people are also upset about it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0316par0362	That's where we came from.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0315par0363	We're there, we're there every week.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0314par0364	The Republican People's Party will build democracy in a country where we won't turn it over to a presidential understanding. I give you all my love.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0317par0367	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 8 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 310 Orders of Foreign Affairs and International Protection Act 8. Article 1. We demand and demand that the statement in his joke be replaced as unappreciable. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Ayşe Nedret Akova Ali Özgündüz Muharrem Light Engin Özkoç Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Aykan Erdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0318par0380	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0317par0381	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0319par0382	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0317par0383	Aykan Erdemir who wants to speak on the motion is the MP of Bursa.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0385	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I'd like to use this clause to point out a major problem in Turkey. Dear lawmakers Sıla Daşdemir and Buse Karakorum were killed in a very sad car accident on Tuesday (March 19, 2013) at the Bursa-Yalova road sweep station. I ask for God's mercy, and I ask for patience with their families. During the delivery of the funerals of these successful students from Bursa Orhangazi State Hospital, the religious officer Ahmet Yavuz, who worked as a gassilhane official at State Hospital, made a statement. In this statement, he said: "Do not send your children away to study. They send you to distant towns and nearby cities, so that they may study. He spoke more regularly, taking care of himself, saying that he met the reaction of the families and had to leave before he could finish his sentence.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0321par0388	Oh, come on! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0389	We know funerals are the hardest times for family and relatives. And we also know that one of the most important responsibilities of religious officials, perhaps, is to be with family and relatives during this difficult time, to comfort them, to support them in their difficult times. But we also know from time to time the negatives in Turkey that our religious officials can produce results that none of us want at funerals. For example, we lived at the funeral of Neþet Ertaş, which we all considered to be a common value, and the religious officer there asked for a witness as to whether Neþet Ertas was known as a Muslim. I don't think any religious official should be allowed to question a Bektashi-born artist's Islam and question him at a funeral.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0322par0390	It's not them you're talking to, it's us.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0391	Now, if we leave here, what's our mission? Our mission is this: Clearly, the internal training of religious officials, both on the staff of the Ministry of Health and on the municipal staff, is of great importance.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0392	Too cheap, too cheap, too cheap.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0393	Now, you, valued lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, are standing up instead of listening right now, but Turkey is lucky because Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, our Deputy Prime Minister, instead of reacting when I deliver this burden, we need to do something about it right away. I'm going to call our President of Religious Affairs. He said. He also said that for religious officials in all three categories, a service education is necessary, that some categories have already been trained to do so, but if there are neglected, irregularities, it will be involved. So, contrary to the reaction of the Justice and Development Party Group right now...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0395	We're not responding. It's cheap! You're a cheap politician!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0324par0396	In their monopoly, you entered the wrong area. They get uncomfortable when you talk.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0397	...Our Deputy Prime Minister thinks it's an important issue, and he thinks it's important for families to complain, as well as for families to be taken seriously in this area, and I agree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0398	It's so cheap!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0399	Now, dear lawmakers, this is not a cheap matter...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0400	It's cheap! You're a cheap politician!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0401	...because we're dealing with people's pain here.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0402	Don't make politics out of pain! Do politics with service. Don't play politics on pain!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0320par0403	No civil servant can discriminate, other than a citizen, commit sexism, or use hate speech on the basis of his authority as a government official.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0404	Serve and do politics, touch citizens, embrace them, do politics like that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0325par0405	You've touched too much, citizen unsettled without touching this. Too much touching, too uncomfortable, citizen.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0323par0406	He's happy with the service.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0325par0407	You touch too much.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0326par0408	Now, the interesting thing is, why are you taking advantage of these crimes?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0327par0409	We don't take care of any mistakes.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0326par0410	Because I didn't blame you, I didn't blame you. I said: There's a problem, let's solve it.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0328par0411	They asked our Minister, our Minister has given the answer, our Minister has given the answer.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0326par0412	The Vice Prime Minister agrees. I said that, but here you are, taking advantage of a religious officer who uses hate speech.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0328par0413	You don't do politics through pain, you do politics with service, you do politics with your policies. That's cheap politics!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0326par0414	And I present this to the attention and attention of the public. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0328par0417	It's worthless!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0329par0418	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 310-Squad Aliens and International Protection Law Bill. Article 1. We demand and demand that the joke be changed to the "alakakian" in the joke. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Ayşe Nedret Akova Ali Özgündüz Muharrem Light Engin Özkoç Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Aykan Erdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0330par0431	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0329par0432	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0331par0433	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0329par0434	Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0436	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on Article 9 of the Law Bill 310. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0333par0437	What's the difference?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0438	Now, dear friends, we are all the people of this country. I'm offering you something, look, and I'm telling you, if there's a Turkish cop on the street tomorrow in Diyarbakira, Vanda, Hakkari, Bitlis, I'm telling you, if there's one soldier on the street, I'm telling you: You're right. Now, friends, we need to emphasize a fact. Now, if in a country, a state's security forces don't go out on the street, if a state doesn't rule there, the state will be destroyed there. We're telling you some facts, so we don't have any hostility towards each other. It's either the government or it doesn't exist. Now, I asked the Home Secretary: Abdullah Ocalan's message to be read in Diyarbakır tomorrow... the head of the BDP said: "He hasn't come to me yet." He'll come to me tonight. I'll take it to Diyarbakır. Now, I asked this Minister: How does this message come? MIT's bringing the message. Gee, now, fellas, if it doesn't bother you, I don't-- I mean, I'm already a Tunceli MP, and there hasn't been any foreign force in the land where I live for years. Let alone the Ottoman Empire. Really...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0334par0441	Is the Ottoman Empire foreign power?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0442	No... you know, you guys have been...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0334par0443	Foreign power, the Ottoman state?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0444	No, no, some things...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0334par0445	Is the Ottoman Empire foreign power?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0446	Yeah, look, guys, I'm telling you something. Anyway...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0335par0447	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0448	If you're human, listen to me.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0335par0449	You don't know what you're saying...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0450	I'm telling you some facts.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0335par0451	What truth? You know too much!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0452	If you're in power, look, in your reign, friends, the army is confined to their barracks.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0336par0453	Is that a separate republic?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0335par0454	Foreign power...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0455	Armed with weapons brought from the PKK and the United States.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0336par0456	Is that a separate republic?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0337par0457	Listen and learn foreign power.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0458	If it wasn't for those helicopters in the southeast today, no security forces can come out of the barracks or out of a police barracks, know this.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0338par0459	Why?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0460	We're telling the truth. Now, you'll agree to one thing, we've given up the southeast.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0339par0462	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0463	Okay, if you're brave... look, if you've got guts, let's go to Tucson together.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0339par0464	Let's go, let's go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0465	Okay, let's go. I mean, that kind of bullshit...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0339par0466	Let's go. What's it gonna be? Is there something wrong with your Tunceli?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0467	Gee, if friends, if people lost their dignity, if they lost their independence... then they've lost the honor of losing their independence. I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0340par0468	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0469	Why do I feel so hot inside? Look, I'm doing politics in an area where I'm in danger of being killed at any moment.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0340par0470	Are you listening to yourself?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0471	I'm not supposed to say those words. I don't have a bodyguard there either, but this country is a very valuable asset to me. The unity and integrity of this land is my life and my integrity. (HP and MHP rows) I'm willing to sacrifice my life to defend the unity and integrity of this country for him. So I'm not telling you this for nothing, and I'm not saying this for a reason. We'll talk here at this hour, won't we? I'm telling you, if there is any sign of the existence of the state of the Republic of Turkey in the southeast today, I, Ahmet Aydın, would like to congratulate you from here. I'm going to say that the state of the Republic of Turkey was indeed in Diyarbakir, and Hakari had it, but you're going to come out here when it's gone, and you're going to say, "Friends, we made a mistake."
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0340par0473	Don't walk in the dark! Don't walk in the dark!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0474	Look, you guys, look what you've done, what you've done. You took the electronics from the national defense and gave them to MIT. When the MIT did not provide the necessary intel, look, 27 soldiers were martyred in Hakkari, 17 martyred one day, 85 soldiers were wrongfully martyred. Why? Because there was no intel. I know those police stations. The police stations are on the hill, friends, no way, coming down on land like this and killing those people. Intelligence wasn't given, why? Because, before the June 12th elections, Recep Tayyip Erdogan had negotiations with Abdullah Gülίle and Barzani.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0341par0475	What deal?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0476	As a result of these negotiations, you will end Turkey. You will divide Turkey, for sure.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0342par0477	Don't be afraid, don't be afraid! Don't walk in the dark!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0332par0478	And then, look, here, this Huseyin Guler says: "He will now bring the constitution to change, sir, he will add Ergenekon and the ACK people to the pardon clause, and so the constitution he brings will be accepted. What will he do? Sir, he's going to bring the presidential system, and he's going to say in the presidential system: "You, people, are an animal, you can't control yourself, I'm going to rule you alone. Guys, look, you've been here 11 years, you still haven't grasped some of the facts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The future is so dark and the leading player of this darkness...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0342par0482	Don't walk in the dark...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0343par0483	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2010 International Protection Act and International Protection Act. Article 1. We would like to have the joke changed to "hudut" (e.g. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Ayşe Nedret Akova Ali Özgündüz Muharrem Light Engin Özkoç Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Aykan Erdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0344par0496	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0343par0497	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0345par0498	We disagree, Mr. President. Celal Dinçer has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0346par0500	Thank you, Mr. President. I think I've been chosen to be a technical speaker to reduce rising blood pressure. Tonight, I'm speaking technically. Dear friends, in many articles of the bill, I said it was very positive that the bar is referred to the responsibility of the legal aid services. However, our barrooms will need additional resources and expertise to provide legal support for immigrants and asylum seekers. Let's not lose sight of the fact that our barrooms are already able to conduct a very limited study of the subjects of this law. On the other hand, we already know that a few of our NGOs, such as the Helsinki Citizens' Association and the Refugee Solidarity Association, have devoted themselves to providing legal support for immigrants and asylum seekers with very limited means. It is also seen as a lack of access to such expert NGOs to return centres and asylum seeker reception centers under the new law. Dear friends, I've just told you that the bill is also discriminated against in terms of access to the business market for asylum seekers in Turkey. There was a distinction between Europeans and non-Europeans. It is foreseen for both of them to apply for a work permit, but, for example, if a three - language, German-speaking foreigner receives a permit to work in Turkey according to what rules and procedures he has received from outside Europe, it should also be expected that conditional refugees from outside Europe should be subject to the same rules and procedures. Turkey has also applied for 26,000 non-European asylum seekers so far. According to the information I've been given, Mr. Secretary, who received a work permit to complete this procedure, there is only one. This means that this clause of the law will never be enforced. Therefore, according to the bill, more humanitarian arrangements should be made for non-European citizens who will be accepted for asylum and will be granted conditional refugee status and will be allowed to stay in our country temporarily. Besides, we won't be giving up the geographical limitation policy when this arrangement is being made, unless you want to lift it. Dear friends, refugees and asylum seekers were not clearly regulated in our laws, so there were various rights losses in practice. In particular, the fight against human trafficking and the protection of victims appear to be a very important, right, and right, and appropriate issue that is being followed internationally. Modern slavery today appears to be an active institution that specializes in protecting victims of human trafficking, which is a globally important social problem, which is the modern form of slavery in modern times. Dear lawmakers, as a result, our country's immigration and international position, its legislation and administrative system will be harmonised with international human rights norms and the acquish of the European Union. We will be provided with the legal, administrative and physical infrastructure we need in the immigration area. In this way, a strong, manageable migration system will be established in our international relations to strengthen Turkey's position and honor. Therefore, I would like to point out that we have continued to support this law, that we will have our support. I salute your high council again.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0347par0509	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0348par0513	We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0347par0514	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Özkovic, Mr. Akar, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Small, Mr. Silver, Mr. Gök, Mr. Light, Mr. Özgük, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Sakan, Mr. Elector, Mr. Eleker, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Öğütü. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm going to read and process: Aliens and International Protection Act 11th in the current 310 rows. We also propose and propose that the meaning of the article (1) be changed to its goals. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Aykan Erdemir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0349par0534	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0347par0535	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0350par0536	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0347par0537	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0351par0539	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm really disturbed by a statement just now, and maybe it's disturbed a lot of people, and it's made Mr. Secretary very uncomfortable here, and it's made the security bureaucracy even more uncomfortable. Now, some lawmakers from the ruling party address the opposition and say, "You can't go here, you can't go here. This is not a situation to brag about in terms of power. Every citizen must be able to travel safely all over the country. If power fails to carry out its mission, then that power has lost its function of power. The main function of being a government is to ensure the safety of everyone's lives and property. It has no place, its location is within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, 778 thousand square kilometers. This is not a matter for you to brag about, lawmakers. I just wanted to remind you that it really upsets me. And there's one thing you've often said, you say the Republican People's Party is a coupger, the Republican People's Party has taken advantage of the coups and so on. Now, he's been in the press recently... Mr. President, no one's listening.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0352par0544	He listens, he doesn't listen. You talk!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0351par0545	Don't talk, don't talk!
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0353par0546	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0351par0547	Don't talk, this can't happen! Now, the one that was recently released to the press...
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0353par0549	Congressmans, we must remain silent in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0351par0550	I'd like to bring one thing to your attention. Look, before the 12th of March, there was a conversation between the former Undersecretary of MIT Fuat East, the Prime Minister of Time, and what does it say? Mr. Undersecretary says you're going to save democracy with this resignation. Otherwise -- look, I'm getting your attention -- the left will already eliminate democracy. It's too bad. Your resignation will give you a great deal of opportunity to go to the national coalition, to crush the left that wants to eliminate democracy and Turkey. Yes, lawmakers, this is a meeting of the former Undersecretary of MIT with the prime minister, the prime minister of the time. Doesn't this talk teach you who these blows are against, and it doesn't mean anything? Congressmans, you know, the 11th article of the law we discussed today -- I'm coming to the subject of the proposal -- organises the visa. Now, all AKP officials, including the Prime Minister, are bragging. They say, "Sir, we've signed the visa agreement with this country, we've lifted the visas." And so on and so on. Where are they? Mostly African and East Asian countries. The question is whether you can make such a deal with the European Union countries or not. Don't boast, don't boast.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0354par0552	Very soon, very soon.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0351par0553	You'll tell me when that time comes. Why are the others done so soon that it's done so long, doesn't this short time ever end? Dear friends, now, you can't fool people like that. You know that, you know that.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0355par0555	Yeah, well, we're not.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0351par0556	You know that, but you have to say something, so you say it. Please, don't pretend people don't know anything. Now, dear friends, you see, in Gaziantep, a significant portion of the vehicles rented in Hatay are not returned. Why? These rental vehicles are being taken to Syria, and they are not coming back. How do these get across the border? The border's all jagged, there's no limit. This may not be felt so much from a distance. The minister recently left for Gaziantep. He's the former governor there, he knows, and I'm sure that's been expressed to him. Dear friends, another matter: stolen vehicles have increased, no investigations are being carried out of Syrian license plates. Look, a fresh example from the church: we have footage of a citizen who was in a car accident, but no footage of the vehicle causing the car accident, it's been erased. That's how it is around here. I've just told you, there are people in the church who are said to be more Syrians than the people in the church, and they are expressed -- look, I'm not saying Syrian. I'm bringing this to your attention. Thank you all. Good evening.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0356par0561	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th annual International Protection Act of 310 Numbered Strangers and International Protection Act. We propose and propose that the article (2) be changed (b) in the following way. In accordance with Article 12 - (2),, b,,,, who will come to the sea ports and travel to the port city or the surrounding provinces for tourism, provided it does not exceed ninety-six hours. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Engin Özkoç Aykan Erdemir Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0357par0573	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0356par0574	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0358par0575	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0356par0576	Aykan Erdemir who wants to speak on the motion is the MP of Bursa. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0359par0579	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Maybe there's a point that we've neglected in our previous talks, which is that we have a debt of gratitude to the law-makers, commissioners, bureaucrats, academics, members of the NGOs, and, in short, all those in common with this administration and with the common mind. Because this law is really one of the most advanced immigration laws we can see in the world right now, one of the refugee laws.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0360par0581	Why are you making a motion?
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0359par0582	You're asking why we're making a motion, and we're making a motion, because if you believe in my governance, I mean, if you believe in my governance through pressure, we can do better with common sense, and our laws don't change, edited, corrected text every two days. Look, it's because the opposite of that attitude is in the commissions, which we're dealing with today is an advanced text. When this bill came to the European Union's Compliance Commission, there was a declaration of co-operation with associations that worked in the area of immigration, refugee and asylum seekers. So when it comes to immigration, NGOs that the state could co-operate were reduced to organizations that worked only for public interest. This was a typical example of a state-of-the-art, centralist, skeptic, skeptic approach. Our warnings on this matter have been noted, and when we look at the text that we have, we now see that the public imagination, in cooperation with all NGOs, dominates a bill that will lead to the process. Dear lawmakers, well, if we ask you what is the importance of the involvement of civil society agencies in immigration management, we must return to the case of Festus Oky once again. Perhaps the only reason the case of Festus Okey was returned from the Supreme Court and been properly investigated was because of the efforts of civil society organizations to create self-preservation and awareness. Look, Beyoğlu of the Society of Modern Legalists is 7. In his petition to the Criminal Court of Asliye, the NGO, the Association of Modern Legalists, was explained how to take a stand in favour of a victim, an immigrant -- a broad interpretation of the concept of being subjected to the principle of law enforcement and the principle of necessity of prosecution must be carried out first and foremost. Otherwise, as in our case, there is no effective, independent and impartial trial if the victim is orphaned or unable to be reached by his family, especially in the investigation of the verbs carried out by official forces. Of course, the prosecution will make a public trial. However, our association's participation will be a major contribution to the case, as well as an important message to the public on how much of this is condemned and not legitimate. Although the concept of criminal prosecution has not been defined in the Law of Criminal Law, it is observed that the concept of criminal prosecution is no longer limited to those who have been directly wronged by crime, and that those who have been harmed indirectly in modern developments include those who have been harmed. ▪ The concept of being harmed by crime must not be reduced only to a relationship of interest. Because of the open violation of basic rights and freedoms, the institutions that operate in order to prevent violations of basic rights, especially rights, are even damaged by every individual in society because of the way the action and investigation is conducted, and are entitled to an active and active role in the trial of perpetrators. The Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for those who are victims of crime and authority abuse, which was adopted on November 29, 1985 by the United Nations General Assembly's Decision on November 40/34, has described as a person who suffers from emotional loss, economic loss, or fundamental loss, and whose fundamental rights have been damaged in this new way as well as our law sees civil society organizations as a share and opens this path, including the violation of criminal laws through action or negligence. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit06spe0361par0588	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-03-20sit07spe0361par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 310. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (March 21st 2013) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals, it is now 14 p.m., according to the decision taken on Thursday (March 21st 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
