tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word out of the agenda belongs to Süçük MP İsmail Günşan, who wants to speak about the province of Uğur and recycling. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own behalf about the province of the baneman and recycling, and I hereby salute your high council and our holy nation. Dear lawmakers, the land of lovers, the baneman is also a city of firsts. It's a city where the first money was printed, the first electricity was used on the streets, the first sugar factory was built by the public, and the last one to sign for the first ones, as the first face transplant was given. When it comes to the province of the footman, carpeting, rugling, textiles, blankets, gauze, tannery, the treasures of Karun, gold mines, ceramics, thermal waters, canyons, historical works, javelin, tarhana, and wishk. As in many areas, the province of the footman is among the first in the industry. In the case of the servant, the history of the wool - fibre business dates back to 400 years. In 1913, three of the 13 facilities that produced wool fibers and weavers in the industrial distributions in Turkey were located in Baneman. Today, the number has reached 240. Ninety-two percent of the blankets produced in Turkey, 80% of the gauze, 15 per cent of the ceramics are produced in Banjar. Our province, which is also famous for its leather sector, is that 40 per cent of small-sized animals in Turkey are being operated in our Butler province. In the world, about 77 million tonnes of cotton are produced per year in 30 million hectares. The most cotton-producing countries are China, the United States, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Brazil, India and Turkmenistan. In our country, about 2.5 million tonnes of cotton are produced a year, and due to the increase in textile exports, cotton produced in our country is unfortunately not enough for us. We import about 1 million tons of cotton from the outside a year, and we pay a significant amount of currency for it. In our town, the butler is an industrialist who produces cotton and sheepless wool without fields. He established important industrial facilities in recycling by doing an important job of reducing the production and disposing of textile wastes that have become a problem, and getting rid of the dye used in raw cotton. The footman brings to our province 70 trucks a day of 15 tons of textile waste and clippings. These are separated as cotton and wool according to the raw material, as well as by color, which produces about 365 tonnes of cotton fibers and 70 tons of wool fibers annually. In order to produce this amount of cotton, you have to produce cotton in an area of about 228 thousand acres. Again, about 7,000 tonnes of wool are produced. In order to produce this, you have to fold 3,750 sheep about three times a year. In our city, the butler is saving our country from not only the clippings, but also the long-standing pet bottles of nature. Two of the 7 facilities found in Turkey are in Uğur. The journal contains about 120 tonnes of pet bottles. In addition, the baneman contributes to the economy as well as to saving our country from garbage by producing rubbers from old car tires in the name of recycling. Our facilities that make fibers out of pet bottles, unfortunately, are imported abroad because they can't find enough raw materials. However, if all the pet bottles used in our country were recycled, our industrialist would win and we'd get rid of the garbage. On the other hand, of course, it would require a significant amount of energy. The servants and the industrialists and we wish that the energy used in this recycling should be supported by our governments. Besides, I think if our municipalities take the necessary precautions to collect these garbage more regularly, we won't have to import garbage from the outside. Of course, today is a very important day, the anniversary of the death of our late prime minister, the late Professor Dr. Necmettin Erbakan. I thank him with mercy and gratitude from this place again. I hereby salute our high council and our beloved nation with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Sun. The second out-of-date statement is owned by Antalya MP Yusuf Ziya Irbeç, who wants to talk about recent developments in Syria and Turkish foreign policy. Here you go, Mr. Irbet.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, maps are being reshaped every century in our region, which has a special position in the world and in terms of energy resources. The process, which began with the 1815 Vienna Congress in Europe, moved to a new dimension with World War I 1914. The Arab Spring, which began in Tunisia on 17 December 2010, is again perceived as a harbinger of a new era in areas close to energy sources. Syria is on an important transit point for the transport of southern energy to Europe via Turkey. Russia was directly involved in the Syrian crisis because it wanted not to lose a door to the Mediterranean, but also to control natural gas and oil pipelines that could rival it. The change in Syria is very different from other changes in the Middle East, and it has properties that could threaten the peace of the region. Since the military did not support governance during the revolution in Egypt and Tunisia, the changes were not too painful. In Libya, NATO intervention, supported by the United Nations, has accelerated the transition in an environment where China and Russia have avoided interference and there are no weapons of mass destruction. In Libya, however, internal conflicts have not been ended, and they continue. The situation in Syria is very different from those countries and is dangerous in terms of peace in the region. As Syrian military and intelligence directly involved in the crisis, the regime also has weapons of mass destruction. The United States, Britain, France and Israel do not have a tendency to intervene directly in the face of open support from Iran, Russia and China that will not remain or threaten the existing structure. The main issue is that there is a solution in Syria that is considered to be the balance of power rather than the overthrow of Assad. In such an environment, the Syrian people are the victims of the crisis. Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan has chosen to appear directly involved in the case with a strange foreign policy sense, as if he is the only balance of power in the world, reducing Turkey's weight in the region with approaches such as "Get out! Get out!" which are not appropriate for the solution process of international relations. When the Prime Minister tried to export democracy across the border instead of improving friendship and trade and protecting it, the Syrian issue moved to a different level. When Iran's Prime Minister, who opposes regime exports in the region, has taken the same stance, relations between the two countries have become more tense and have reached the point of reckoning in Syria. It makes diplomatic moves in Turkish foreign policy difficult. In Turkish foreign policy, the zero problem is that the letters remain the same, but they have become the only problem. We've always highlighted that it's more meaningful to extend free freedoms to groups in the region, instead of freeing them, and it can serve to consolidate unity and integrity. The Prime Minister and the AKP continue to insist on group rights that separate people, leaving the expansion of feral freedoms aside, just as in our country. The situation in Syria is even more complicated. Forty-five percent of the 22 million people are minorities. Here, keeping groups in the forefront will make it impossible for a population of nearly 10 million people to lock onto a single target together and increase chaos. Prime Minister Erdogan declared red lines regarding regional developments and said, "We can't stay an audience." He likes to make statements. In contrast, there is no consistency in relations with our neighbors. Two years ago, you're going to have a diplomatic relationship, and now you're going to say, "Get out!" Acting on such a vision, the Prime Minister has also lost the chance to be effective at negotiating tables for Turkey and the region to discuss delicate balances. In this context, the Syrian policy complex must be reviewed without getting involved. There's no selfishness in foreign policy, a common act. In a place where the Assad opponents tend to negotiate, our avoidance affects Turkey's perception in the region. Mr. Davutoglu, the foreign minister, had recently responded to journalists in anger about meeting with the Assadists: "God forbid, I will die, and I will not. I am flesh and nails with my Kurdish brothers in this country, and there is no distinction between this people and this people," said a prime minister, who, as in Syrian policy, should stop dragging Turkey into the swamp and stop building the concept of "Turkish nation" in this country. Terror should not only be seen as a phenomenon in domestic policy, and the foreign policy foot should be considered as much. A prime minister, who has not received authority from the nation and hopes to facilitate the process of making the constitution by meeting with the terrorist leader who killed thousands of our martyrs, must now come to the point of facing the facts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The AKP, which has failed to export democracy to Syria on its own, must also give up its tendency to import a constitution that will undermine the unity and brotherhood of the Turkish nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. The third unscheduled statement is Ankara MP Izzet Cetin, who wants to talk about the contract of employment by subcontractors, including PTT workplaces. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0006par0050	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, before I speak, I offer my solidarity and respect to the public workers who are fighting for their rights today. Dear friends, I've spoken from this platform, especially about working life, and I've brought up a lot of issues, but on the last -- 15 days ago -- on February 8th, when I was aware of the actions of PTT employees, I went to them and supported their actions. When I found out the reason for the action, I got goose bumps. In order to share with you the service agreement imposed on those workers and put the AKP MPs' work life ahead of them, I felt the need to speak out of the agenda. Dear friends, not only are the workers working at the PTT, but the officers are also in great trouble. Although the PTT, one of Turkey's most popular institutions, has done major services in the past years, one of the most brutal labour branches of subcontractor work is the transport workforce, especially used by AKP as an instrument of its policy to reduce employment costs in the field. Of course, here the mines are ahead of all of them. We're all aware of the fatal business accidents, the job killings. Dear friends, I want to make it very brief once again that subcontractor work is almost becoming the main operating form in Turkey. There are 500,000 of them in the public, over 1.5 million subcontractors across Turkey have no rights; most of them are under minimum wage, their working hours are long, their working conditions are heavy, they have no severance rights, they have no pay leave and they have no rights; their rights are only to be fired, they have a long period of work. There's a contract imposed on PTT workers, dear friends. Of course, it is clear that this firm is protected, especially by AKP ministers or lawmakers, all PTT employees. A company called Asgun Tourism imposes a contract on the workers and tells the workers that the valued friends are committed to following the rules of their mandate, authority and responsibilities. The staff will also work on the national holiday and general holiday days set out in the Employment Act 4857, while 270 hours of overtime per year is included in its main fee, and they cannot charge overtime at all. This contract is five months old. Twenty-four months plus five months of option tenders, a five-month contract with the workers. The employee agrees to work overtime and work on Saturdays, Sundays, as the employer sees fit. Again, the employer is free to apply weekly working hours; he can send workers to other workplaces when necessary. Worst of all, dear friends, under Article 7 of the Work Law, the employer may temporarily hand over the worker to another employer to carry out his employment if necessary. The worker agrees to work as a temporary worker where he is sent. The employee, again, has submitted regulations prepared by the employer. There's no notice. The Asgun firm, which signed this contract, employs almost 7-8000 workers in Turkey, and fires the workers who act today. On the other hand, on February 1st, PTT again tenders distribution and postal work. When the firm fails to carry out its services, the executives of the company try to pressure the officers to make officers do the distribution procedures they need to do, threaten them, and in the end, on 18/2/2013, instead of cancelling the tender, against the employer who failed to fulfill his obligation, say to the officers, we will do it for three months. While the job that needs to be done is a cancellation of the tender, as the firm is favoured, officers and workers, of course, continue to be oppressed during the AKP administration. I, now, would like to know from the government, especially what ministers are behind this firm, which MPs are behind it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. President, a moment of your time...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0009par0064	President, won't you promise?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0007par0065	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from the Membership of the Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology. I'd like to pay your respects. 26.02.2013 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Given Turkey's rapidly growing weight in the marble sector, the demand of marble in Elazig in the world markets, the entrepreneurialness of the region's local resources, it seems that the Elazig marble sector has a serious potential for development. In order to ensure a possible development and to ensure that the level of prosperity of the region's people will be carried out, I propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Code of the Constitution be carried out. 12:01.2012 [[Elizipt]] [[Tripoli]] [[Aydın]] [[Samsun]] [[İzmir]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 9) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] 19) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] Natural stone mining has become the engine of our mining industry, offering our country's natural resources to the service of our economy, adding value, year-on-year export revenues, and employment. The marble sector is described as the flagship of natural stone mining, with the proportion of both value and total mining exports. In this context, both our country and the Elizgik are very fortunate in terms of its reserves. Because the marble mine is a mining property that has a high quality of technology and human resources in its production process, with a high added value, which is completely sourced in our own land. On the other hand, when surveyed of the emerging sectors in our Elazig province, the marble sector is high in export power and value. In this regard, marbleism is considered the most important sector in the region. Elazig has 8 per cent of Turkey's marble reserve. China, the United States, Saudi Arabia, Dubai, Italy, Russia, Taiwan, Ukraine, Singapore and Indonesia have an export route to more than 20. With a total of 50 million USDs per year, Turkey performs 8.5 per cent of marble exports. The presence of the marble species called Elazığ Vishnei is the only place in the world in Alaya district of Elazig Province. The visible reserve of Elazıg Vishne marble is around 200,000 cubic metres. Possible and possible reserve is considered to be approximately 1 million cubic metres. The average annual production is around 15,000 cubic metres. Elazıg Cherry is usually sold as a block. Selling like this does not contribute much to the economy of our province. It is important for both our province and our country's economy to process and assess by-products in our Elazig province rather than to sell this unique marble as a block in the world. Especially in recent years, China has been buying marble debris from our province outside the bloc. He grinds these very cheap rubble with technology that he has developed and boils it to cheap stones that he has produced and sells it to the world market at expensive prices as Elazýg Cherry. Resolving the property and road problem of the private sector that operates in our Elazig province, reducing energy shortages, minimizing key input costs, also using alternative sustainable energy resources, resolving interpersonal needs, opening the Mining Engineering Department within the Faculty of Engineering at Fırat University, again, the issues of establishing the Mermer Scientific Research and Application Centre within Fırat University must be examined, evaluated, evaluated and done. Again, in Elazığ province, the establishment of marble spending enterprises, the creation of private audit and quality control units, the weighting of marketing activities, the export of add-on products rather than the sale of raw materials (mer block). The most effective and efficient production of value from marble deposits found in Elizıg is needed to make necessary plans so that they do not become endangered. As a result of research, the Elazig marble sector has a serious potential for development, and it is necessary to move quickly to assess that potential. In this scope, in order to establish scientific data for the development of clustering (cluster development) and to create a plan for the development of the Elazig marble sector, I propose and establish a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 98 of the Constitution and Article 104-105 of the Civil Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the need to open Parliamental research under Articles 104, 104, 105 of our Constitution 98th, Turkish Parliamentary Council of Turkey, in order to determine the potential for tourism in the province of Tutahia and to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems that have been taken. 31/01/2012 [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 8) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 21) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 22) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] The province of Kütahya has a 5,000-year-old history of Frig, Rome, Byzantine, Seljuklu, German and Ottoman times, which began with the Hitit civilization. The city is the capital of the German Empire for a hundred and thirty years, the centre of the Ottoman state of Anatolia, and the centre of the Chinese world for four centuries. The foundations of the Ottoman Empire have been laid on the Domanic plateaus. Again, Osman Gazi's grandmother, the founder of the Ottoman State, is in the village of Domanic, the shrine of Hayma Ana. The world's first stock market was founded in the ancient Roman city of Aizanoi, in our province of Rydarhisar. On the other hand, the War of Salvation was won in Dumlupınar on August 30, 1922, the Battle of the High Command, which led to our victory. The Kütahya, which has many of the alternative tourism opportunities, has a great potential for five thousand years of archaeological, historical and cultural wealth, cultural tourism, health tourism with healing spas, along with its forests covering 53 per cent of its size, the Frig Valley and its day-to-day trade sites, and natural tourism. Although there are only six thermal tourism centres in Turkey, they do not have sufficient hotel and museum centers with sufficient business documents from the Ministry of Tourism. The Kütahya, which has Turkey's richest thermal resources, has a serious potential to heal local and foreign tourists with thermal water that can cure a series of diseases from rheumatism to paralysis, from women's disease to nervous illness. From the early eras of history to today, various civilizations and states ruled in Kütahya. Many cultural values have been inherited from almost all of these civilizations he has hosted. Kütahya is also rich in museums. The museum of archeology has an important place among its precedents for its works. The Chinese museum is the first in the world and Turkey. The symbol of the province and the "Chinese" that introduces it to the world are also the most important arts in Kütahya, as well as an important source of income for the people. Ceramic production, which began with Frigs in Kütahya, has continued to improve until the end of the Byzantine period. In 1974, Kütahya, also known for its production of porcelain, owned its first porcelain factory. The china sent throughout Turkey today is exported to many countries. Kütahya is located on the east side of the Inner West Anatolian chapter of the Aegean region, at the intersection of the roads and railways connecting the Inner Anatolian to the Aegean and the Mediterranean region. It is also located on the north-south transit route. Despite this rich tourist potential mentioned above, the province of Kütahya has failed to achieve the expected development and has not had the potential for adequate accommodation. The province of Kütahya, which did not receive public investments expected during the AKP administrations, which has ruled our country single-handed since 2003, was able to buy only 100,000 euros in tourism investments in 2003-2011. In other words, the province of Kütahya has also been forgotten by AKP governments in tourism investments, as in other areas. For reasons revealed above, Parliamentary Research is required to open the province of Kütahya in order to determine the potential of tourism and its problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The permanent demographic of cities in the Central Anatolian Region has caused the districts to shrink day after day. As for the measures to be taken under investigation of the reasons for the migration, we propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Paddles]] 13) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Sakarya]] 15) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Tripoli]] 18) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] According to TÜİK data, as of the end of 2011, Tokat, Yozgat, Sivas, Erzurum are among the most immigrating provinces. The most immigrant cities are Istanbul, Ankara, Bursa and Antalya. Two million, 360 thousand people have moved in our country. He is a champion in the provinces that migrated as the province of the slap. The population is dropping more and more every year. That is how it is in the surrounding cities. The number of slap MPs 2 of Sivas, 2 of Yozgat, has dropped 1 of Amasya. The fall continues. For the last ten years, these provinces have always gone back from AKP power. When we look at the reasons for immigration, these provinces have a lot in common. In these cities, industry and trade have not developed, rural populations are large. It produces farmers, but it hurts. Every year he thinks, "What can I produce so that I can't do any harm this year?" In addition to farming's extinction, employment organizations are also disappearing. The slapping cigarette factory was sold, and it's closed. The same is true of sugar factories. Like many sugar factories, the Turhal sugar factory has been sold by the Privatisation Administration. The production will continue here. It's tried, but I'm afraid it'll end up the same way. The production of tobacco in all countries, such as the province of slap, has been very low. The same result comes for sugar factories. The production of sugar beets will result in the same result. Our people are running away from production, and the land is empty. While the inner Anatolian region has been very important in its past in its animalism, this sector is now at an end. For the summer is almost cut, and the lamb, and the sheep, shall not be found. Today, the tradesman in Inner Asia Minor has finished, and it has become a sinking state. The absence of the supermarket law has finished thousands of trades. AKP's power is brutalizing the tradesman. Industry and industry have not developed in the Central Anatolian provinces, such as the slap. The state is not investing, the private sector is afraid to invest because of various factors. The current reason in our country today is productivity. But if cities like Tokat were given real support, there would be an increase in employment, and people would migrate from big cities to places again. Let's change the incentive law into an Anatolian basis, make the investment attractive. As a government, the farmer, the animal manufacturer, is not supported enough. Fertilizers, diesels, VATs in various medicines should be removed and taken with the farmer, watering and modern farming methods must be popularized. Food barn animalism must be developed, agricultural-based industrial arms must be moved to the countryside, and most importantly, the value of the product must be made. They will also face the closure of municipalities under 2000, in many provinces such as Tokat, Çankırı, Çorum, and in the coming period. Let's not shut down these municipalities. People leave their villages by their own will and necessity. If these municipalities close, there will be more migrations. We need to create attractive environments for living there, for staying there. Tax exemptions, electricity, gas, various things like that should be cut down, and people living in the village may have little or no use for them from other places. That's when we keep the population in the inner Anatolian region. This AKP government, which has ruled our country for three periods, must intervene in these immigration provinces. He must find a way to keep these people in rural areas. Given all these reasons, we have a motion to investigate. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed and put to your votes: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Wednesday (27/02/2013). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. On the agenda's 242, 348, 325 and 424, in the section of the Law Bills and Other Actions From Commissions, to the rankings 3, 5, 6 and 7. The 428 Bill of Law, which was distributed under pressure, would again be taken to the fourth place in 48 hours, and the order of other tasks would be considered according to this. On Thursday (February 28, 2013) until the completion of the talks of Bill 424; Until the completion of the day-to-day program at 2 p.m. at the top of the list; On Tuesdays, March 5, 6 and 7, 2013, Wednesdays and Thursdays, until 8:00; To continue his work, It's recommended. Vocabulary? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm going to make a moment of my word to our lawmakers, who have entered the system, according to the Civil Code 60. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0010par0289	Mr. President, thank you. Now, I would like to say something like, Mr. Minister of Agriculture is here -- just to get his attention -- our Minister of Agriculture. We have the district of Saimbeyli, Mr. Minister. Of course, agricultural district managers are constantly interested in their illness in order to help the animal workers. We thank the Department of Agriculture for that, of course. There was one last disease called brucella disease. That's why they dripped medicine into the eyes of goats, sheep. This drip caused 9,000 pregnant animals to get rid of the pregnancy and disappear. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's goat- it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's goat- it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0011par0293	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0012par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terror is a hand that extends to Turkish nation's security. The security guard of Harimiism, the 61st Turkish Republic of Turkey, which should have broken this hand, lay down the gun, not too loud, don't make a fuss, don't embarrass me, let me lock the door, and give you what you want as much as we agreed. Is that the solution? And I would like to point out the majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in this minor. When today and future generations look at the archives, who would have finished the terror? What would the answer be? One is the state of the Republic of Turkey; two is Recep Tayyip Erdogan; three is the government of the Republic of Turkey, 61st; four is the baby killer Ocalan? Do you think he created a hero from the killer? Thank you, I give you your attention.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0013par0300	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0014par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Former Chief of Staff, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mujahideen Commander of Magosa, Kardak heroes are held in prison for months. In contrast, the Turkish nation's fierce enemy, mass murderer, Ocalan, has been dealt with by the state. The television, gymnastics, and other joyful needs of Ocalan the Slaughterer are being met with great enthusiasm by the government. General Ilker Başbug is being tried as a terrorist while Şemdin Sakık of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is being taken seriously by the court as a witness. Such a judgment cannot be taken seriously by the Turkish nation. These trials and arrests are condemned on the conscience of the Turkish nation. Generals, academics, MPs and journalists with terminal illness are still under arrest. Prime Minister Erdogan can't get out of responsibility by visiting Ergin Saygun (Ergin) or complaining about the terms of his imprisonment. I urge the government and the Minister of Justice to act immediately in order to remove the arrests of these people, or they will be responsible for what happened. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0015par0306	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0016par0309	Mr. President, the other day, I visited Darende, the beautiful district of Malatya. I've been meeting with the Mukhtars, listening to the problems of both villages and their own. The problems of Darende are the same as the problems of Malatya. Because of the lack of apricots, both the Darendeans and the Malatians face the limit of hunger. We sell 1 kg of apricots for $1.6 or $1.7, and yet we can't find customers. Our animals are worthless, the grain of hay is up to $1.00 per kilo, and the bag of oaths is up to 50 euros. They say, Mr. Secretary. And we can't get food and straw....... the farmer is miserable. And, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to point out the situation of the chiefs. Their condition is one or two times worse. The mayor's salary is $410, only the BUG-KUR bonuses are $360. They ask, "Is there an institution in the world that gets elected and gets paid less than we do? " They're screaming, because we can't pay the BUG-KUR bonuses, and when we're sick, we can't go to the doctor, we can't take medicine. They call on the leaders who bridge the country and state, who deliver all kinds of problems to the state, whether this is the right or this is the right.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0017par0314	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0018par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I wish my condolences to our Istanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, who I visited at his house yesterday in Istanbul. As soon as his foot is healed, I wish him to serve in the Parliament of Mustafa Kemal. I wish him to begin his work as soon as possible. I wish him well again. Other than that, in the last week, I personally visited the district of Yusufeli, my constituency district. You know, yesterday, the foundation of the Josephite Dam was laid. A company working on the basic construction of the Yusefeli Dam did not pay 168 workers. Because he hasn't received the company's rations in about four or five months, or because of other problems, the power's out at the firm's location, the diesel's out. Parts of 168 workers have left the company's workplace, facing a major problem. Therefore, in the coming period, their bonus payments, their payments, over four or five months, have been beneficial for their past payments as soon as possible. The minister and the government are sensitive about this, and in Turkey, especially in Artvin, they're responsible for paying off companies who can't afford to bid on dam contracts.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0019par0321	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0020par0324	The Prime Minister of the 57th Government, Professor Dr. Necmettin Erbakan, in honor of the second anniversary of our teacher's death, I want to say that we remember him with mercy and gratitude from God. I'd like to say that he's one of the rare scientists and politicians who branded Turkey's politics. His ideal purpose was to bring happiness, happiness, peace and prosperity to all mankind. I'd like to say that his power in Turkey, even in a very short period, has caused many elites and Turkey to shake the thrones of an elitist layer, which, in some way, has excluded the people of Anatolia for years. And I call to mind him, [O Muhammad], with mercy and favor.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0019par0326	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0021par0329	Thank you, Mr. President. Cemil Kırbayır was taken into custody on 8 October and was never heard from again by the revolutionaries who were destroyed by Fascism on September 12th. Her mother, Berfo Ana, who has been following her son for thirty-three years, said that she would not die until she was found. Although she was 105 years old and had her eyes open, she died last week. He came to court on a stretcher, where the coup d'états of September 12 were being tried and asked for his son's account. At the same time, Berfo Mother was a symbol of Mother Saturday. We promise Berfo Ana, we will surely find our friend's killers and bury Cemil with his mother. We are certain that the killers are in the state's most important positions because all murderers have risen under the protection of the state. Finding the perpetrators of all perpetrators in Turkey is our primary goal. We pledge to the mothers and community of all the lost brothers. We also ask for the mercy of the mother of Berfo, and do not turn your eyes away. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0022par0333	Thank you, Mr. Övüt. Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0023par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the burning of 750 tonnes of coal or chemical waste per day in the local factory, there will be quarryes, which will have a total area of 7900 acres, nine percent of these areas will be in forest areas, and because thousands of trees will be cut down, they will be unable to eat vegetables and fruits, because water supplies will be destroyed, because of the destruction of the cement factory, and because of the destruction of the locals, they will be traveling in the truck routes of air pollution, and because of heavy metals and noise pollution, they will begin to come out of the migrations, and they will react. Every chance you get, the AKP says, "Whatever the nation says." The AKP says, "This time, the Tonyans must not remain silent," and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0022par0338	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0024par0341	Mr. President, Izmir (Izmir) has two urgent problems; Mr. Ministers have problems that they can solve if the religions get their hands on them immediately. The first is the 2nd, which began with the construction of the Konak Tunnel. It's the trouble with our citizens who live in houses that can't be lived in the Cadriye neighborhood. The ministry and authorities have left citizens to live in unhealthy dwellings, saying, "Let's go rent 400 lira and carry $400." Attempts must be made for citizens to get healthy housing as soon as possible. The second major problem, as the public knows, is that production has come to a halt at the BMC factory, where 2,500 people work, despite all the efforts of workers, because their wages are not paid. I'm saying that the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Labor, and the relevant ministries should take the matter into their own hands and take care of the victims of the workers as well as ensure that BMC is the pupil of Izmir. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0025par0345	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0026par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. There are workers working in state institutions all over our country under various names, either temporary staff or subcontractor companies. Most of these workers work for minimum wage, with no social security, could be fired at any time. These people, who are in great fear with their families, want the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to take care of them and take the cast. I tried to talk about them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0027par0351	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0028par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the second anniversary of the arrival of our former prime minister, the late Necmuddin Erbakan. We, the AK PARTY group, once again remember with mercy and gratitude. One of the most important figures in Turkish politics, the late Necmettin Erbakan, was an exemplary leader who earned our people's love and appreciation for his knowledge, personality, experience, principles, struggle and memorable service. He was also a very valuable scientist. Despite all antidemocratic obstacles, Turkey has made valuable contributions to its development and development in all areas, despite all the antidemocratic obstacles in its lifetime. Once again, I ask God's mercy on the late Nejmuddin Erbakan, his family and his loved ones for patience. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0029par0359	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0030par0362	Intaş High School in Istanbul has been on fire for days, and some of the teachers -- 7 teachers -- cannot come to school because they are sick. The ministry is making a huge effort in Turkey to become a political staff by means of education-BIRD-SEN, instead of providing for the school's needs. In order not to leave a non-self-inflicted manager, 947 branch managers are assigned to these staffs by unlicensed hands to manage the training by appointing those who have no right, who have no right, who have no right to their own generalities, who are not in accordance with their terms. I wish they'd put an end to it, return the country to the main issues that education needs.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0029par0364	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0031par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture: The female animal cut is banned in a general order published on 28/12/2012. However, farmers who grow sheep and grow calves have to cut them off. Is there, in fact, a precaution for the prevention of the slaughter of farmers, which is true in the principle of increasing our breeding existence? I'd also like to share this with the Minister here: the farmer is in such a difficult position that there are even cases where he breaks his foot to cut off his animal, to get the disabled document. So our Minister of Agriculture doesn't mind that this policy puts the farmer in this position?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0029par0369	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0032par0372	Thank you very much. We, the National Movement Party Group, pray for God's mercy to the late Necmettin Erbakan. We offer our condolences to all of your loved ones. Najmettin Erbakan Hodja has made a significant contribution to Turkish political life. The name of each party he founded was.... with the word.. so I believe that, at a time when nationalism was being taken into another meaning, when our Necmettin teacher was being questioned, he had to begin with the word "Nicmettin" and understand its value better today. We wish him mercy from Almighty God, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0033par0377	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0034par0380	Mr. President, thank you. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Ahmet Aydın Beye of the AKP Group and Mr. Mehmet Erdogan of the Agriculture Commission... release our tobacco. Adıyaman Çelikhan. Malatya Kurucaova. The Minister isn't listening, and neither am I. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0035par0384	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0036par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, last weekend I was in Tucson. There's, of course, not enough cars in the county, so there's always scrap cars on the roads, and there's always scrap cars in the Village Service. So, unfortunately, because it's snowing too much, the country roads are closed there, and normally the roads are very neglected, that's the first issue. Secondly, the citizens are complaining about not taking these bait prices. It's been snowing a lot this year, but they still haven't taken last year's bait prices. It's said to have been taken in other provinces. I wonder why there's a special practice for Tunceli. They asked me about it, and I offer it to him, sir, if there is a government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit01spe0037par0391	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0037par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 3rd ranking Mera Law Charter and the Interior Commission and the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs reports. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 242 rows. On top of the whole bill, Hatay MP Adnan Şeker will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0038par0021	Thank you. Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you all with respect, love, respect, sir. Now, in the Law Bill 242 rows of amendments to the Mera Law, perhaps the nation following us will think that we are discussing a law to address the problems of the livestock, the problems of our livestock, the problems of our livestock. The goal of this change is to carry a different goal, even though the mera are formulated in such a way as the rehabilitation of the malnourished mera, where the mera are actually open to special use and can be made available to large companies. So the government's job is to determine the difficulties of our animalist, who is already in difficulty, by law, at the point of the rehabilitation of mera, which is an important resource to meet the need for brute bait. Here, our powerful government, the growing economy of the state of the Republic of Turkey, is apparently not successful in the rehabilitation of these reforms and can't afford to reform them. And He has not made it lawful for him, nor has He made it lawful for him. Now, it may come to the mind that at this point, our viewers are wrong: there's a mera that's lost its qualifications, privatizing the reforms of these medians in the interest of our citizens who want to take advantage of it. There's no such thing. So these meadows are being rented. This is a bill that will carry out the privatisation of the use of the mera, not the reformation of the mera. So there's talk of renting. What it says here is:.. in the area where the rent can be established, there can be mandatory livestock facilities to meet the need for animal maintenance and housing...... to say that the Mera's turning into big livestock facilities, that's basically it. Now, in what sense, then, can we argue that this law is intended for the benefit of our livestock farmer, their use, their occupational problems? It's pretty obvious here. The law doesn't tell a person how much to rent. There's a serious flaw in protecting the farmer's rights here, not a single line on this issue. I mean, whatever village it belongs to, there's not a single clause in that village, there's a village, there's a village, there's an animalist who's got to take it first. So, if this goes into tenders, if big companies enter into it, there's not a single clause here on how our village there will compete with these companies in Ardahan, in Kardahan, in Hatay, in Diyarbakır, in Kayseri, in Aydın, in Sivas. There's not a single clause here that gives them a priority that can uphold their rights, their rights, their rights, and the equality of competition. If there is, if there is something that we don't know, I hope Mr. Minister of Agriculture will come back later and tell us. But first of all, we want to make it clear that no one tells the nation, no one, that this bill is a bill brought to solve the problems of the livestock, or that nobody will sell it to us. Dear friends, livestock is already over. So as a brute bait, as a straw or as an animal, Turkey is now a country that needs to be out. The imports of animals and the numbers are obvious, and the animal situation is obvious. The animal man has no hope of getting out of his pathetic state. So, we've said over and over again that the animals in Şırnak, Mardin, Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep, Kilis and Hatay are in great straits because of what has happened with Syria. The borders have turned into a paradise of everything, as well as a paradise of smuggling and animal trafficking. The farmer takes care of his property for months, raises his calf, costs it a year, meets the runaway animal when he lands it, and at the risk of damaging it, he turns his back on the merchant, and never goes back to animalism. There are fewer animals in Turkey. Given the numbers, there is a slight increase, but it is now known to everyone that this is a rise from the sudden nationalization of illegal animals from all our borders -- Iran, Iraq, Syria -- from our borders. Although the number of animals in Turkey has been claimed to have increased slightly by these increases, these numbers are actually dropping dramatically because the livestock can't make money from its animal. Dear friends, 16.8 per cent of Turkey's face measurement is mera. A significant number of people in Turkey provide for their livelihood by providing for their lives, at least today, because the price of meat, the price of milk, the price of the plain, is taking home two, three, five cows under the worst conditions, and taking this as a guarantee, no matter what the condition of their sair income from here, and taking it as a guarantee, and taking it as an insurance, at least, providing for their vital needs, is trying to earn its living, as of today, because the price of the meat, the price of milk, the price of the raw feed, the entry in livestock, is now reducing the power of this farmer, and the ability to sustain his livestock is becoming very low. Now, while this is the case, what is a very important factor in meeting the rude need of our livestock, whether it's going to be a follow-up, or someone coming to invade, big companies, big corporations, trusts, and animals, animals, and Anatolian farmers, to go back as a result, we're going to be able to say, with what reason and with what logic, we're going to be able to say, "Yes!" That's not possible. The National Movement Party would never share such an approach, nor would it allow the animals to have their last opportunity taken away from you. At the very least, the National Movement Party has demonstrated its position in this Parliament with its opposition to this law, and is against it. Dear friends, you, the government, are so stubborn in every matter. So at 2/B, we tried to tell you about this. As a commissioner, our lawmakers in parliament have warned you about many things since the day the other opposition law 2/B was launched, and you persisted. That's not how it works. As this will not do any good to the forest peasant, you have also explained and repeatedly explained to me and many of my friends from this stand that there is a law that causes great tribulation. So the late - God rest his soul - there's a saying from the Ottoman Division chief: "He who finishes the politician is dry stubborn," he says. You're still stubborn about it, and at the point where you're here today, just like we said, you started making changes in the 2/B Act, even though it didn't really refer to the jungle villager, but yesterday you added a clause to that law, which was also contaminated by the 2/B Act. The door to public-private partnership opened, which had nothing to do with the 2/B law, his soul, the forest villager, was opened, and there he smelled a runt and walked away. You have the technique and understanding to make a law that you brought to us while we were still on the road, while we were still on the commission, you brought in the amendment motion. I wonder if these laws are made in the car. I wonder if these laws are being enforced. What's with all the bureaucrats? So what right does this government have to sully the goodwill of its members of the Forest Commission, its power, its opposition, and its pure intentions? Now, the understanding that you bring in this law is not even remotely relevant to the interests and problems of the livestock farmer, but it has an understanding that will make these problems worse and bigger. Governments, of course, take authority from the nation in order to govern the state. You have the authority at 50 percent, but the opposition is to control governments, governments, wrongs. Opposition tells mistakes from time to time. Of course, the government does what it wants, because it's his responsibility, and he needs to know. But what is crooked about these laws, what is right about them, and what we will leave to the conscience of the nation after they have been implemented. Maybe this won't just slam you into the wall, like in law 2/B, our poor farmer, one by one, will notice that the big corporations, the trusts, have fallen into their hands, but then it'll be too late. Just as the forest peasant in Anatolia is standing today, we hope that this animalist, whom you have victimized in many ways tomorrow, will rise up and, hopefully, return the favor politically. Again, the Ministry of Agriculture's practices in many areas of farming victimise the farmers who operate in different areas. Dear friends, in wheat, in sunflowers, in cotton, corn, with TİK data, there is talk of a payment of an acre, which determines how much a farmer can produce. Although, Mr. Secretary has made a promise in our meeting with the Agricultural Commission that he can take a step back from this -- now in peace -- and I hope that he will, after me, express that he is behind that promise on this stand. You can produce 525 kilos of cotton. Says TÜİK, does he understand? No. So what good are the agricultural authorities doing, and how does the TİK determine that number? I mean, in today's terms -- I'm talking about the cotton farm as well as the engine -- when the farmer buys 600-650 kilos of cotton, do you call it producing more, or do you want to take it out on an honest, honest farmer? This is unacceptable. At this point, we hope the Ministry of Agriculture will take the necessary measures. Anyway, the farmer who's in trouble, who's short on credit, shouldn't get hit in that sense. So -- today, while our Minister of Agriculture is here -- the Bank of Agriculture is no longer the Bank of Agriculture, so the gap between our farmer and the Farm Bank is increasing because of its idea of being a commercial customer, of seeing a farmer. I guess the Department of Agriculture will do some good. I mean, it's not our job or the Ministry of Industry to sit around and deal with these things. The Ministry of Agriculture must take immediate measures at this point. The farmer isn't a merchant, but the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Energy thinks the farmer is a trader, or the officer thinks he's bringing a monthly payment plan. Get rid of that understanding, get rid of it quickly, or the Turkish farmer is leaving, after the Turkish farmer is completely in the mud, because he's not a merchant, he can't develop in a year, in six months, in five years, so he can't make all the damage out of a product he's selling. If it lasts five years, it'll take him 15 years to get back on his feet. Please, leave this understanding. I mean, we don't mean that you don't do anything well. For example, we hear there's a lot of good work at the Agricultural Credit Cooperatives General Managers. Although our Minister of Agriculture has said that we don't import hay from this bench, that the hay we import has 800 tons. In a recent meeting, the Agriculture Loan Cooperatives' General Directorate imports thousands of tons of hay. It's not bad, it's good, at least it balances the price a little. You're always saying that we're having problems, that we're not working out. Here, let me put it this way, Mr. Agriculture Minister, while we're here: Bank the agricultural loan co-op, buy the agricultural loan co-ops a bank, or open the way for a bank, and meet the farmer. I believe that agricultural loan co-ops will be able to serve the farmer with much more conscience than the Farm Bank, which no longer has any interest in farming. Dear friends, you can't be stubborn. As we persist in all things, we are stubborn in many political matters and Turkey is blocked. Today, we also persist in the Imran process. And in the Imran process, you insist that no one should take what they say without taking a castle, without considering any tenderness, by making the matter of blood stop, by making filling material, by blocking the expression of many sensitivities in the process. In the meantime, you're gonna hit the wall. In the process, not only are you going to hit the wall, but the Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey, will hit the state. Many values are being taken underfoot, nationalism is being taken underfoot. So, when we say that nationalism is undermining, we think of the National Security Policy Document on October 31, 1997. It is the work of the February 28th process, the National Security Policy Document, and it is said here that Turkish nationalism has become racist and is a threat to the state of the Republic of Turkey. The country's mafia also took advantage of it in that document, and it is a threat to the state of the Republic of Turkey. This National Security Policy Document is in fact the product of a mindset that has hit Turkey's national security with the most severe impact, the product of a mindset that has hit its spiritual values, which is the product of February 28th. Today, the mentality of nationalism, Turkish nationalism -- we think -- is no different than the mindset of February 28th. However, the nationalist Movement Party, with its heavy stance, underpins these heavy slanders and immoral assessments of nationalism in the 28 February period, as it has with the Turkish nation, in the narrow days we live in today, will hopefully bring down these insults and attacks on nationalism, our hope, and that's our hope. Our arm is not broken, our wing is not broken, and we will, of course, give up our democratic struggle until the end, but I would like to point out that the moment we believe that the state, the nation, is being handed over with all its elements, and that the moment it is involved, we will not be afraid of any legitimate struggle and we will not hesitate to pay any price. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0039par0044	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0040par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the draft of the Law to Change the Law on Mera 242 rows. I salute you all with respect and love. We'll talk about the Mera. We want to emphasize its importance once again because these areas are unique resources that cannot be replaced in the production of animal products, the most important source of the population's diet. These resources are important for the agricultural sector, which contributes 25 per cent to employment and 9 per cent to GDP. But that is true of governments who care about agriculture. Unfortunately, right now, we're all going to be talking about this as a stepchild for the AKP government, how agriculture is looked after, how agriculture has been destroyed. The health of animalism, our natural resources of cheap bait, unfortunately, is being dispossessed by a little more and more destruction every day. It's possible to see all the laws that have been passed by the government -- many laws being passed -- destroy parts of the field. Last time we passed a law under the name "Central Transformation." We have to say immediately that if you need land for the transformation of disaster-threatening areas and if you show the reserve space, no one has a chance to say anything to you about anything, because 11 laws in Article 9 of this law have been left out of context, one as the Mera Law, so you have the chance to do what you want to do in these areas. Once again, I want to emphasize that the Mera Law does not have any significance in this sense. However, as these laws come out and the bill is presented to Parliament, I would like to express that I really need some information on how the Minister of Agriculture is acting in the Council of Ministers or in other departments, because this disaster concerns the Ministry of Agriculture by 11 laws, with the Land Protection Act, with the Mera Law, with the Law on Coastal Protection. But I don't think the Minister of Agriculture was very interested in this matter. Friends, two amendments to the Mera Law will be made in Article 4 and Article 12. The fourth article will be changed. So, what I'm saying is, there's no need to translate or set any other goals, we'll rent them to the private sector, we'll give them to the private sector. In these areas, the private sector, including TOKI, can do whatever it wants. There's no other meaning to this... sir, here's information that the cost will be left to the general budget, that the charge will be deposited in the village's corporate personality and municipalities. I don't think they're necessary because I want to know that there's already been a significant decline in the number of villages and that they've been dismissed, and here's how Mr. Minister of Agriculture is acting, and again, he's thinking. Friends, the 12th article states that the base area of these facilities cannot exceed one percent of the area of the rent. The Council of Ministers is authorized to increase this rate to one level. Now, I'd like to continue with an example, and I'd like to talk to you a little bit more about it. Let's say, for example, that 3,000 per cent is a middle-class mera area, and let's say that the average grazing yield is 100 kilograms of dry grass. Given Turkey's mera qualifications and properties -- let's assume that it's a five-month period, which is shorter in the eastern regions of the season -- the total yield of grass in this area will be 300 tons annually. This yield will be able to meet the needs of 200 cattle units during the grazing season. This, on average, is a 400 - kilogram - weighing 400 - head animal, or 2,000 - head animal. According to the text prepared, the 1 percent facility area will be 30 per cent. This amount can be raised to 60 kara by the decision of the Council of Ministers. For 400 cattle, as it is known, modern, semi-open animal shelters and subsidiaries -- civilization, delivery hall, fertilizer pit, calf, all included -- will cover a ten-yard area, with the remaining 20 acres, or if the Council of Ministers doubles its size, what will be used for? For the small animal in this area 2,000 heads, the maximum area of a 5.5-yard facility will be sufficient, including the navigation area. And from here, given 2%, I'd like to say that we should think about what the 54.5 degree area is going to do together, and that what we're planning to do in this area needs to be made clear and clear. So, as I said at the beginning, I'd like to talk about a special effort to get these parts into the private sector. Dear lawmakers, another law on this law, another law that has been dismissed these days. In 29 cities with the Metropolitan Law -- and in Bursa, 656 -- the villages suddenly became neighborhoods, and from March 30, they will be neighborhoods. Last week, we're traveling through villages in Burma, one of the biggest problems of the village's citizens is the removal of their assets. Lists of assets have been requested by governors and all owners are reactive. There's an expression for peasant citizens, and I want to share it with you, and I want to express it in its own terms. Our peasant citizens say... what's the point if someone puts a gun on you and takes money from you while you're on the way? It's a mugging. We've asked the lawyers, they're calling it "gasp." Well, you're in a crowded place, so if they took your wallet out of your pocket, what would that be? That was called theft, again, by fellow lawyers. Citizens of the village say: "Isn't it an extortion by the government, and a theft, and I want to leave the appreciation of this to the High Parliament, dear friends, that I have separated the other real estates from my fingernail? Dear lawmakers, I would like to say a few words about the fact that the mera is troubled, and the importance of the mera in terms of the importance of animalism, once again, but let's see if our government will ever consider its inputs. One of them is fuel, diesel. Today they use diesel in Europe and in the United States, half of the mazood that we use. Then how will our farmers, our peasants, compete with these countries? For one thing, at first, I'd like to say that you were a 2-0 loser. I'd like to share one more thing. Dear lawmakers, given to yacht owners, shipowners for $1.5 lira, are given to our brothers and sisters for diesel at $1.5, and peasants for $4.20. I ask our dear viewers, our peasant citizens, if, after putting the diesel in his tractor, he jumps into his tractor, crosses the Bosphorus Bridge, and drinks tea on the backs of Sariyer, or goes directly to the production sites. That's one of the first points of view of this government as a farmer. Unfortunately, to this day, despite all our efforts on this subject, I would like to stress that there is no progress, no effort whatsoever. Also, I'd like to say something else about diesel, folks. The diesel comes out of the refinery and the masoth goes to the pumps, $1.50, all expenses included. This one's got an OTV and a VAT. Dear friends, we farmers use 3.5 billion litres of diesel a year. When you multiply this by the amount of VAT and ETV, you'll see a number over $8 billion. For what I'm saying, unfortunately, except for this height in fuel prices, our farmer supports the state with diesel because we've all shown that nine billion euros of aid in the budgets were given to him at the price of VAT and ETV in the fuel again. So, unfortunately, I want to underline once again that this government, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Agriculture, does not support farmers; farmers support government by paying diesel, fertilizer, electricity and VAT. Again, I want to talk about the Agricultural Law, as we continue to talk about laws. In 2006, the Agricultural Law was passed. Mr. Secretary says he makes laws about this law every chance he gets. Yes, the farmers also hoped that such a law would come to pass, perhaps as an ointment for our wounds. So, what happened in 2006 when the Agricultural Law came out? Unfortunately, this Agricultural Law in 2006 did not support farmers as the mountain gave birth to mice. In other words, from 2007 to 2012, over 27 billion, Mr. Minister of Agriculture -- not to mention as a person -- the government, the government, owes the farmer. So it's supposed to be 1 per cent per year, but it didn't give 1 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient, which is 50 per thousand. In this regard, I would like to address my fellow farmers again and say that this government owes you 27 billion dollars. As the Republican People's Party, I would like to state that we have proposed a law on this matter. Friends, I'd like to come slowly to my district of Burma, where I'd like to continue the rest of my time by talking about my fellow Bursaans, who, of course, are troubled by my fellow farmers in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, in November 2010, a report of damage was made on the olives in Bursa. The first, second, third term has been paid, according to the damage done to the olive, the fourth part has not been paid. What counties? Gemlik, Iznik, Orhangazi. In light of the information I received from the head of the Chamber of Agriculture, I'd like to say that the government still owes 4.5 trillion to 4,100 farmers from November 2010. Here, I want to express to our friends how the farmers are supported. Again in 2011, there was a problem in this region: In November, during harvest, the temperature between day and night was very low in olives in terms of efficiency and quality because of the awareness of the temperature. Despite our persistent conversation with the Minister, with our friends at the Agricultural Commission as well, neither of those debts has been postponed nor has any work been done on the matter. I'd like to say from here that we're in the southern Marmara region of Bursa. The wheat, cotton and canola are supported. We also want to express support for olives, at least $1. And I'll tell you this right now, according to Karacabey's statement from the Karacabey Agriculture Room, the Minister has stated that this will not be the case in the Commission, but I'd like to emphasize once again. According to TİK figures -- if you do the premiums according to TİK figures -- I'd like to say that a $3.7 billion loss in the Karacabey area has made farmers very miserable. The scholarship is troubled because we produce raspberries, and at the time of the raspberries harvest, we see that 2,300 tonnes of raspberries have been imported from Serbia. Of course, he stayed on raspberries in our Red Villages and could not find a buyer for 1.5 TL. Isn't the same in Egypt? The same is true in Egypt. In Karacabey, on the day of the harvest of corn in Kemalpaşa, know that you have the chance to see ships in the port of Bandirma. The potato people are in trouble. We met our friends in Nevşehir, and Afyon was the same. I'd like to say once again that they couldn't sell the potato they cost 35 cents on the dollar. What else is happening in Bursa? Dear friends, Mr. Governor declared 2013 as the year of silk insectism, but in 2004, unfortunately, the Institute for the Research of Ipekbugs of Burma was shut down. I'd like to finish by saying the last two things right now about the mera. There is an auto-test center in the fields of the town of Bursa, Yenişehir, Turkey, and Karacaali. What did the Minister of Agriculture do about it? So I want to know very carefully what the Council of Ministers is doing as they pass this decision, and what their motives are in this regard, while 1,120 acres of Karacaali have been given to the car testing center of Karacaali. There's another matter. Friends, there is a tender in the Lord of the Forest today, before this law is passed in the house of Mustafakemalpaşa Ormankadı. I'd like to state that even this law is being tendered without being expected. With these thoughts and feelings, I give you all a lot of respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0041par0072	Thank you, Mr. Irony. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0042par0076	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Committee for Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs reports and to amendments to the Law of Mera, 242 rows on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. Today we are renegotiating the Mera Law, repeating it. We know that Turkey is an agricultural country, but it's important to see if we're considering this country well enough. Animalism is about the mera. Mera are our common assets, mera are our values, mera are our sources of wealth. So it's also a food source for animals. In fact, many years ago, it was divided by the intelligent people we call our territory, and there was no incident. For a hundred years, I'm a man who can testify to that. So, these problems were not coming out. When the Tapu, the Kadastro Law, with the Mera Law, the Law of Corrections, and so on, the peasant caused fights every spring. Thus, the use of those meres, the use of pedestrians, was delayed, and many people had to emigrate from the village and were forced to. Therefore, today these meres have not been reformed, nor has a proper law been passed, nor has any law been passed. Still, this chronicized problem continues in our region. In fact, I would like to point out that today, with the new law, the resources that can be converted into money by corporations are not in the category because it is the living and feeding ground of animals. It's also free feeding grounds for animal breeders. The products of animals that feed in the Mera are richer in nutrients than the animals in closed spaces. Mera are also carbon dioxide depositors, oxygen-producing areas. Perhaps the most important feature of the ceremonies is that the ecological chain is home to the essential creatures. Nature is like man. He is sometimes attacked from time to time in many ways, and sometimes faced with events that stem from his natural selection, such as wind and earth tremors, or earthquakes. And that's not enough. In recent years, the pasture and the pedestrians in our area have been banned, so even the animal haunt area has been banned. Let alone his people, his animals, were deprived of that opportunity, the places that were bombed day and night, the banned decrees that were issued -- 417, I'm talking about the past -- he couldn't even take the peasant animal to pasture. He wasn't looking for his pet in the mountains. Why? Because it was declared a restricted area. Mera are an important area for both humans and animals, the most important input of the agricultural system are mera. Today, I'm afraid, these distractions are being used without purpose. In view of this negative situation, there has been a significant process of decomposition. Meralar, pedestrians and barracks are one of the most important sources in Turkey that meets the needs of millions of people to feed. Thus, it is vital that the meadows, the pedestrians, the barracks be preserved, recycled, reformed. However, this bill -- the transfer of mera, pedestrians, barracks to private and legal persons and organisations regardless of the need for the use of their corporate personalities in the village or the region -- will result in agricultural production, the use of locals, and their victims. This is also an important problem. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been removed from joint inheritance, which may be considered a common value, which is added to the Law of 648, which was issued in 2012, or rather, the possibilities for construction in the villages have been restricted. The exceptions for the residents, previously registered to the village population, have been made known to all. This right has been eliminated. In fact, they've been invited to take advantage of that right. In particular, village settlements and environments along the shoreline have to be opened entirely to the range, regardless of the properties of the farmland. With this law, an additional clause was added to the Building Law for this purpose. In addition to the additional clause added to the Building Law, from parts of the mera, plateau, and barracks that are considered a temporary settlement for traditional use, those that are required for public services can be earmarked for up to twenty-nine years in exchange for the price of demand holders. It will also be assigned to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to be used and evaluated within the framework of Tourism Incentivisation Law 2634, as well as the tourist centers of mera, plateau and barracks and areas of cultural and tourism development. In addition, the demand holders will be given up to twenty-nine years in exchange for the price. It means that they will be used without purpose, and will be set up with housing, hotels, resorts, golf courses and so on. In November 2012, however, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar said that construction of mera could be out of the question. It's the law that makes it impossible for peasants to do livestock. For example, according to the newspapers of October 1, 2012, in Malatya, Mush, Bingol, and so on, despite such practices, large companies have gone to rent, but in Malatya, there have been stronger demands. Of course, the only problem with the area is that the meadows and the plateaus are rented. The dynamite that was detonated on the land leased to the marble factories also caused dozens of springs to dry. Another example occurs at the Bergama Kozak plateau. The marble and mines are drying out the pine nuts. We're even asking now, and we're answering that question. First of all, what are the villagers going to do when they can't do livestock? And secondly, is it possible to go back after the contamination of nature or not? Is it important to the government that animals can't feed freely, that animal breeders can search country and country for hay, that ecology will be corrupted, that they won't give people healthy food? How does the government feel about that? But we're asking our Minister if the mera are important to all living beings and ecology, along with the citizens. For the past ten years, the narrowing of the plateau and mecha fields is one of the most remarkable situations. At the same time, the narrowing of the Mera and the plateau areas also leads to a proportional decline in animalism. If these meras had been reformed, supported by the villagers, there would have been great progress in animalism today. We know that a lot of our areas are good for livestock. Like Bitlis, like Mush, like Ağar, like Van, like Bingol, like Elazıg, like Mardin, we know that six, seven months of winter take place. Thus, the availability of these fields for livestock depends on these climate conditions and conditions. Therefore, in accordance with the demands made to the state, the law has been disabled, especially since 1990, by a significant portion of the plateaus, due to low-density war, non-profit peace. The mountains -- as I've just said -- were always bombed, the villages were forced to evacuate. Four thousand villages have been evacuated, three million people, four million people have been forced to migrate to the Metropole. Well, a scenario like this, a painting like this, how convenient a field like this might be, you think about it. For many years, villages, meadows, pedestrians have been evacuated under the name of the State of Emergency, security zone, temporary security zones, and thousands of people have been victimized, and that is not enough, and people have gone to the unknown. Today, the law states: "Here is a shepherd who will identify himself, and he will tell you what field he has used in the area in which he lives. It's a very absurd understanding. What kind of law is that? So I live in Hürmuz village of Bitlis, and I go to the police station every day? For your information, I will go to this part of the mountain. I will return to Gampoz. I will go to Sheikh Amer. I will go up to the mountain. I will go up to Tenuran Yayla, and feed my cattle. What age do we live in? We're talking peace, brotherhood, humanity, democracy, democratization. If we don't provide them, I assure you, we're not gonna get anywhere with these security-sensitivity laws. For him, even today, people are being victimized in many places under the name of the temporary security zone. You see, 15 districts were banned by January 7th. What if a man forbids his own citizen, his own territory, his own land, his own deed? What understanding is that? What kind of understanding is that? What kind of brotherhood is this? We're having trouble making sense of it. Since the day the AKP took office, Turkey has also seen every part of its territory as a hub. Finally, I think the Mera Law we're discussing is preparing for a new runt. The AKP government is continuing its search for new mera across the country. However, in Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, does it not mean that banning people's livelihoods, livelihoods, villages, pedestrians, means looking for a new mera area and victimizing people, so to speak, narrows down the livelihoods of the people living in this area. Because there's no other livelihood in our area right now, except for animalism. Because the farmland is too narrow, the plateaus, the mountains, the plateaus are too good for livestock. So, if we were to make a bill like this, I think, with this law being passed, thinking about the East and the Southeast, I'm sure I wouldn't be saying it here today. Every spring, the gendarme knocks on the door of the peasant, the farmer, our livestock. Well, who's going to get people into areas that are on such leave with these bans? I ask you, shouldn't everyone know what's going on there? And that's not enough -- our region is a second source of living beekeeping -- in terms of beekeeping, which is the kind of resources that nature has so lovingly offered to people, and unfortunately, we're preventing beekeepers from going out there. So why are we blocking it? Is there anything sweeter than making honey? Is there anything better than making oil? Is there anything as wholesome and wholesome as the natural supply of human food, which is naturally offered to the public in one hand without adding any substance? Of course not. Today, Bitlis has an integrated facility because it is the most suitable area of beekeeping and livestock. Our Minister knows about that integrated facility, but now that the beekeepers are in debt, that facility isn't running. Perhaps they've come and gone to our Minister over and over, Mr. Minister knows it, Mr. Vice Prime Minister knows it, Mr. Prime Minister knows it, and they know it very well, especially that facility. Now, he's at a standstill. 2,000 beekeepers were getting off on the job, 2,000 beekeepers. In everyone's homes, three or four or five people, 10,000 people made a living of it, but because of the prohibitions in this area, it's become so useless and it's causing production to cease to exist. The town of Gölbaşı is located in the District of Norşin, Bitlis. Now the citizen has to buy his own land and at a high price. I mean, the problems don't end with one story, but I consider the curfew, the permission to the shepherd, the declaration of identity and so on as a threat, and I consider it a threat to prevent people from living as human beings. On this occasion, I salute you with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0043par0094	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu. On behalf of his people, Adana MP Ali Halaman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0044par0098	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on behalf of the National Party for Action Group on behalf of the 242th Amendment to the Mera Law, a five-point bill. I salute your high council. When it is said that agriculture and animalism are often thought to be the social, political, and material use of the villager, townie, and urban. 15 per cent of our country's total area is 16 per cent of the field, but since it's been open to abuse for many years, it's often used by the dominant forces of the area, in villages, in cities, on the edges of the city, and they're more engaged. Although there was a comprehensive law in 1998-1999 called the Mera Law, the mera could not escape occupation, political preferences, administrative exclusion. Hence, changes in the Mera Law for use outside livestock and agriculture have been envisioned in today's conditions. The reason for the change, particularly recently, has been a five-point law, such as to rent out, build, buy, sell the legal grounds of the areas of the mera fields, executives, capital owners, dominant groups occupying. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, these capitalist policies the government has implemented... have already passed the Metropolitan Law. The corporate personalities of the villages and villages have been eliminated, and the places that are seen today as a mera area have moved to cities, land has become a land. Urban transformation, disaster hazard, earthquake law, 2/B, jungle law, water meter, water measuring device for underground waters, and a large number of land sales laws, the privatization of everything, and eventually came this mera law as a five-pointer. In doing so, did you increase the welfare of society, the country, within ten years? Do you think that even though the country has been buried in an internal and external debt of $539 billion over the course of a decade, these loans will be repaid by constantly selling? So even if you sell the mera fields, the mountain won't hold up. In this country, every member of parliament says that animalism is troubled from time to time. Therefore, every time the animal is worthless, the straw, the medicine is constantly imported, even though it is imported, there is no great contribution to the development of animalism, it comes to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Even though farmers are miserable in agriculture, look, in March, April, sunflowers, corn seeds don't exist in the Çukurova region. So since there are no import regime decrees to be issued in January, corn seeds, sunflower seeds sell at an exorbitant price around Adana and around it. Because of the laws you passed, the public has been coming down the streets lately. Look, there are hikes and riots for 2/B in Antalya. Because of the laws you've made in schools, because of the tuition, the clothes, the society is on the alert. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, at the group meeting -- I mean, outside his group -- Mr. President of the National Movement Party, Doctor State Gardenli says that the State Garden has been in power for three and a half years, is there an obelisk tree? Thus, during the three and a half years of his administration, Mr. Leader Dr. State Garden, the development of democracy, the rise of the social level in every corner of this beautiful country, from Bitlis to Ahlat, I went from Mus to Malazgirt -- at that time -- on the initiative of the region, Malazgirt, Mush, Bitlis, all the way to Bitlis, on the conditions of that day, the general president of the National Movement Party, Dr. State Garden. The construction of the Farid Melen Airport in Van (D.A.) was the result of the construction of the Doctor's State Garden. Therefore, as Deputy Prime Minister of Diyarbakır, the Diyarbakirs must bring their water. He transferred about 7 trillion in the terms of that day from the grant. So now, all of this has been the work of the State Gardener, who has been fighting for three and a half years for the destruction of homes, homes, homes, and homes. Small-sized highways, improved agriculture, improved animalism, the destruction of terrorism, social integration, high-level policy in foreign policy took place in his era. Now we have 125 billion dollars in the Central Bank, and he boasts that his trust fund was worth 25,000 dollars in the past year. He thinks that people have been struggling with execution, debt, credit cards, that adultery has increased, that killings, suicides have increased, that society has been divided, that separatism has increased, that Turkishness and Turkicism have been destroyed by law, that they have served this country to create new political actors. By making political, social, material aid to the Arab Spring, you had the Muslim fight with the Muslim people. I've taken the nationalism of the nation under my feet. You think it's right to say it, to insult it. In every corner of this beautiful land, unemployment, inequality, injustice is at stake. This will increase the march for the Mera Act 2/B. These laws call for money, for profit. It's the law to eliminate the peasant, the townie. I have made a promise to say these things. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the great Turkish nation with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0045par0109	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. On behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehdi Eker. Here you go, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0046par0113	The AKP doesn't listen to its own Minister! Why is that?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0047par0114	He doesn't need applause.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0046par0115	A group that doesn't listen to their own Minister. We're here, but there's no AKP Group. Don't worry, he's listening, listening. Everyone's listening. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised to inform the High Council on the draft of the mera law. Mr. President, there are still 14 million hectares of mera in Turkey, according to TÜİK data. This, unfortunately, is a continuous decline in the history of the Republic, from the 1930s, 1940s. However, the remaining part needs to be well evaluated, reformed, and more grass from the unit area, more grass from the meadow, and therefore a cheaper bait source for livestock. In 1998, there was a Mera Law. In 2000, some of its reform practices began. Here, up until this time, during this time, there have been some of course applications. As of now, nearly 9 million hectares of this 14 million hectares of mera's presence have been identified, the construction of the 4.5 million hectares, and the reforms that have been reformed, especially during our administration have been concentrated, and the reforms have been completed in about 450 hectares. Normally, in Turkey, of course, due to the amount of rain taken, and due to the lack of reform work, in the past, 65 per cent of Turkey's mera presence is weak in the yield of grass, which means it gives between 20 and 25 kilograms per del. It's a very weak mera structure. The 25 per cent of it has negligible yield between 38 and 45 kilograms. When we add them up, it's 90%. So 90 per cent of Turkey's 14 million hectares of mera yield grass with weak and medium quality. Of course, between 20 and 45 kilograms of dark grass, which is extremely weak. It's a very, very weak structure compared to world standards. Therefore, it must be reformed, and it must be well assessed. We have a good quality, that capacity, that capacity, which can be produced between 120 kilograms and 150 kilograms of weed per square foot. Mera is only 10 percent of our existence. Mr. President, there are two areas that we can provide as a source of bait. One, we're going to reform these mera, we're going to get more grass than these so we can feed our animals cheaper. And we need to increase the plantage field. We, the Ministry, have increased the feeding ground substantially by providing more support. Here, I'd like to stress that in particular. Our support was 35 million liras, and in 2012 -- the money we paid for planting plants within a year -- was about 293 million Turkish liras. It's just money paid to farmers who plant bait, like shelter, clover, feed plants. In total, we moved the planting area from 1,100,000 hectares to 2,226 thousand hectares of land. This normally means a 100 per cent increase, so within ten years, the plant plant plant in Turkey has increased by 100 per cent, upped 2.2 million hectares. Let me also say this: Turkey's total production of crude bait has increased from 34 million tons to 46 million tonnes over the past decade, but also, of course, animals need food, because the need for food is increasing because animals have become a cultured species, so we need to provide more and more cheap bait in this area. Actually, that's the main reason underlying today's bill. I mean, we're going to reform our existence, that's... that's in the areas where the citizen has been assigned to the villagers, and if there's animal assets, those citizens are already running them, grazing their livestock. But it's being detected, so let's say it's the animal that's being detected for an animal, and it's being detected. We call it a cattle unit. We're predicting 15 to 20 acres per unit of cattle, 50 to 60 in the middle class, and 100 in the weak field. Now, somewhere, if there's a mera, it's said that there's this many animals here, and if there's this many for every animal, then the village here will be left with this much space, if there's an extra, unusable mera area on it, that's what's going to be rented, that's what it's done so far. In this framework, about 1,200,000 hectares of land have been rented in different parts of Turkey, by the boroughs of the provinces, and long-term, there is this kind of practice. I mean, it doesn't give us a chance to rent a new mera or anything. So, what's the problem? Here's the problem: when these mera areas are being rented, when they're being assigned... oh, and I'll tell you this: if there's a mera area to rent in one area, it's a priority for farmers or investors who live in the area or live in the area, and they're hired in the first place. If there is no demand from them, if there is no demand -- there is no animal presence -- then it must be perfectly natural to accept that it should be rented and contributed to Turkey's economy. In fact, not doing so would harm Turkey. Because if he's out there, and there's no animal, so if someone's going to take him, make him reform, get more weed, if there's a way to get more, cheaper bait, and we're keeping it from him, if we're not doing it, then we're going to have to question him here. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there's one thing in the current application, the existing Mera Law: if the mera field is corrupted due to excessive use, there's an expense being paid to restore these mera fields to its former state. This expense is being collected from the person, but there's no clarity in the law as to how, where it's being invested, there's no clarity. A clause -- in the bill we brought in today, in the bill we submitted to your votes -- brings an arrangement about it. The general budget for what happened, and for what is going to happen, is also being provided with an arrangement of the Ministry of Agriculture and that money for the use of mera services in that province. That's one. The second thing is, now, you've rented the meadow, get rid of it. Someone came in, and here he is, applying through a tender, and he brought his project to the government to bring the highest income, and if you give me this place, I'll do this reform project here, I'll bring up this kind of weed, I'll increase it. He can't build a hangar, not even a warehouse, where he's going to put the weed he's going to get after he's reformed and reformed. E, now, you rent, you do a procedure, you do an app, you plant seeds, you plant mera seed, you compost, you water it, it costs a lot of money; it buys grass, but it's not allowed to build the facility to be converted into economics, to be used in animal activity. This is the arrangement for the 2nd article. So we're predicting an arrangement on two issues: 1) As long as we do not cross 1 percent of the total area to be used in the animal activity, we allow him to make an arrangement where he can store his weed at work or build a livestock plant. 2) If a land has been used outside the Mera's purpose, if it has been driven beyond its purpose, we also provide an explanation of where the money was collected from it would be deposited, and we bring an arrangement. The arrangement is related to these two articles. The other two substances -- four articles of design -- are a matter of execution and execution. Or a new lease... a dear friend of ours just told me here, they've already started renting. This isn't a new lease, it's been leased from far away, and like I said, 1,200,000 hectares of land have been leased so far. It's part of the steps that we've taken, through mera rehabilitation and through planting plants, to increase that, to get Turkey's cheaper source of bait and thus reduce the cost of animalism, which is extremely important. Now, Mr. President, I want to make another point: there's a big development in the livestock industry in Turkey, there's a big transformation and change; we need to know that, other than that, animalism is dead, for example. There are no animals left. Their claims do not reflect the truth at all. I've said it a lot here, but since it's been expressed every time, I'd like to say it one more time for the record. 9.8 million cattle, as of 2011, have managed 12.4 million, and when the 2012 number is announced, we'll see that this has reached a slightly higher point. One of the most important indicators of development is that about 40 percent of the population of 12 million,400,000 cattle is pure culture. It was 19 percent earlier, so 19 percent of 9.8 million were culture, 81 percent were hybrids or other inefficient races. Currently, about 40 percent of them are pure cultures. What? 12.4 million cattle. For the first time in the history of the republic, the number of animals that have been watching the direction downward began to go up. There, 32.3 million were dealt with, that's the number of 2011; in 2012, we expect small animals, sheep and goats, to rise to about 35 million. Milk production has also increased from 8.4 million tons to 15 million tons, which are recorded figures. So, red meat production, you know, was announced last week, up to 915 thousand tons in Turkey. From time to time, it's true, it's about prices, milk at the price of bait, meat at the price of meat, there's trouble against the farmer, period. We've taken many measures to solve them, and we're taking them in the following process. Here's one of them is the creation of an intervention agency. Two: increasing productivity, increasing efficiency, especially by the creation of beef cows from cultural races in the development of meat animalism. So, we're thinking that the planting of these mera and other bait plants would also have a cost-effective effect on this. That's what experts advise us on. Now, there's a serious increase in livestock production, whether it's livestock or cattle. And this, of course, was provided as: 2.2 billion dollars, which is that in 2012, we only paid cash, pro bono, to our livestock manufacturers. 293 million of this -- I just told you -- it's just money for plant bait. Others provide both milk premiums and support for the feeders, as well as for other livestock. I would also like to point out that one of the key parts of the 2013 agricultural support payments is the diesel, fertilizer and soil analysis support, water products support, milk powder support, and certified seed use support -- which will be transferred to the bank account today -- 1 billion,670 million -- and tomorrow, after twelve, our farmers will be able to receive it. Because we're paying in February, and today, on February 27th, that money goes to the bank, $1 billion,670 million. 2 million, 217,000 farmers will also benefit from these benefits. One billion 410 million liras are fuel, fertilizer and soil analysis support, and the other one consists of other support pens. Last month, we paid $278 million in January. Thus, in the first two months of this year, in Turkey, the government's cash, pro bono, grant support to the farmer totalled $1 billion, $950 million, about one. Today, on this occasion, I would like to share this information with you. The bill -- as I said -- is two important arrangements and a practical need in the meadow. In fact, it's not a new thing in a sense, it's just an arrangement for merchandising, which is given on the record of reforms for better operating, higher efficiency, which is rented, given in exchange for the project. That, of course, is in accordance with the will of the High Assembly. I wish him well. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0048par0141	Thank you, Mr. Eker. In the name of the person, Kars MP Yunus Kılıç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0049par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself concerning our Law Design for the Amendment to the Code of Mera 4342. I salute your high council. Respectable lawmakers, in fact, are two changes, which may be considered important, but when you look at them in terms of its content, are very comprehensive in terms of agriculture and animalism. One of them -- as the Minister long said -- includes facilities to be built to maintain agricultural activity on agricultural land, which has already been rented. That makes perfect sense, because it was known to cause this kind of trouble: in agricultural areas -- if the plant is not built -- it was mostly migrating -- so when the citizen arrived, he was leaving at the end of the grazing season because he couldn't live there; and when they went back to their homeland next year and came back, there were serious problems, especially with the transfer of plant and animal disease. It was in beekeeping, it was in livestock. This will open the way for a more permanent, more stable animalism. The speakers had concerns, concerns that they expressed. One of the most important things was where these meres would be rented to trusts, cartels, big businessmen, and the villagers would suffer from it. Actually, it's certainly not relevant because the Mera Law is already an obstacle. It's about to start very close when the auction starts, if there's one in the nearest village, or if there's one nearby, or if it starts from being hired to these kind of eager people in the area...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0050par0149	Is it so hard, my friend, that I don't get a place of residence in Kars, if I'm to receive a tender?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0049par0150	...if that's not there, we'll go to a wider area... because there's an empty lot of land in the middle. Respected lawmakers, as bad as wild grazing is in the meadows, it is equally harmful for me to be grazed. Why? Because animals also contribute to the airing of the mera, which contributes to the plant, to the vegetation, which naturally fertilizes the land. If you have to feed two animals in a field, if you put 1 there's the harm, and if you put 3 there's the harm. So it's very important for country agriculture and animalism to keep these areas open. Now, actually, Mr. Secretary has expressed the law well enough. Now, the EC PARTY -- you know -- respected lawmakers, have serious claims in their vision of 2023. Some of the most important of these are an agricultural product of 150 billion dollars, an agricultural export of $40 billion, a million in revenues per capita in rural areas, a collection of 20 million hectares; the watering of 8.5 million hectares of land; the production of at least 20 million tons of quality crude oaths, the production of a total of 50 kilograms of red and white meat consumption; 15 million majors, at least 40 million small animals in our country, and the re-substantiting of this Mera Law, which our Prime Minister has expressed in connection with the 61 million hectares, the provision of the government of Turkey's development and reforms in the country. Now, when you're claiming all this, the AK PARTY, what is our current situation, what was it like in the past, how is it today? It's impossible to do healthy things without detecting them. Now, in Turkey, agriculture and animalism, respected lawmakers, have had conjunctural problems that have been accumulated for about a hundred years, or even earlier, to be able to go to the world, and are now conjunctural problems. What's all this? We have a climate feature that's not particularly suitable for agriculture. Turkey, you know, has a territorial climate structure; it's usually a long, cold country in winter, dry in the summer, low in the summer, without enough rain at the desired time. Now, we want to make more and more in this country -- a country that has a growing prosperity as a day goes by -- and we want to consume more. And the only way we can do that is to get to a point where we can determine the potentials that exist in ourselves and get the highest efficiency on them that we can get to the point where we can get enough of our people's needs. One of the most important things is our presence, which all speakers have detected. Because in Turkey, our input costs in livestock and agriculture, which many of the lawmakers have just described rightly, are high because we haven't produced many of them in our country. So in the global world, we don't have much chance of competing with agricultural products. So the way we can do a more random animalism here is to evaluate our own potentials. What's this? Our most important asset -- I repeat -- is our merest because it's the cheapest -- even the most valuable -- in Turkey, when we're looking at rough bait production right now -- is the areas where we can buy products. And at 44 million hectares in Turkey in the 1940s, until about 14 million from that time to now, they were already friends -- not after we arrived -- these mera fields were reduced. Now, what the AK PARTY wants to do: at least let's reform what we have left, get higher yields from here, and add that to livestock as a cheap input, and let's meet the need for rough bait. That's the essence of what's meant to be done and brought back with a change in the law. Now, how did this happen in the old days? Previously, before the Mera Act came out in 1998, the chiefs often sold the surplus of these mera fields in their own way in the villages. Generally, the chiefs, of course, were the majority people in the village, so the villagers didn't make much of a sound either, to be honest, but in rehabilitation, this money was never used. In fact, even in villages, even from people with animals other than breeding -- we used to call it garbage money in Eastern Anatolia -- they collected money and used it in certain needs of the village, but they never used it in reform. Later, after 1998, after the governorships began to auction it off -- as the Minister stated -- it was unclear what accounts these funds would go into. So, it was being transferred to the general budget, and the trail was disappearing. So, no way was it used to recycle the reform of the mera. Now, this is at the beginning of the most important changes brought by this law. So, the money for this rehabilitation will be invested in village chests, municipal corporate personalities, and that will be the purpose of its use. If we can get that done, at least we'll have the means to keep our presence as areas that will produce cheap, rough bait. In that sense, the law is made up of two small substances, but it's extremely important to its content. Other than that, respected lawmakers, Turkey was in a situation in the 1940s where about two animals fell to about one person; in the later years, almost one animal to one person has now reached a number of animals to about two people. And in the 1940s, 75 per cent of the population of Turkey was involved in agriculture and livestock, and in later years it fell to 25 per cent, so three people used to produce for one person in the city, but now three people have to settle for one person. If we do not assess our potentials in this sense well -- if you take into account Turkey's growing prosperity level with this EC PARTY -- the village population in Turkey will fall to 10 percent, as in the developed Western countries, almost ten years later. It's actually a problem, but it's up to us to turn our potential into a plus, to increase the income of the villager, the countryside, because in ten years, one person will also have to produce it for nine people. This shows that our village population will be reduced. Is that a good thing? It's bad now in Turkey because it has to create different jobs, but when the day comes, if we can make our preparations for that day, if we can expand the business of the residents in this village, if we can increase the land scale, if we can collect and water the land, our claim to raise our population in the country's income to at least 10,000 dollars in ten years won't be possible. In that sense, I think the law is useful. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0051par0163	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0052par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0051par0165	Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0052par0166	Sir, Mr. Secretary has given me some misleading information about the increase in the number of animals in Turkey, and I want an answer on that.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0051par0167	So he said the number was low?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0053par0168	Mr. Secretary, they're misleading Mr. Ugly with numbers, he said.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0051par0169	You want to fix it.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0054par0170	Yes, sir, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0051par0171	Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0054par0174	Mr. President, the valued MPs, Mr. Secretary, are saying the number of animals in Turkey is numerical. I've already stated in my speech that the facts have nothing to do with these numbers. Now, Mr. Secretary, did you or did you not give instructions between the date 02/12/2011 and the date 02/6/2012, at the point of the release of the subject of the recording of an animal of all ages -- the animal of cattle, which you say is increasing -- by earrings? One. Do you know how many animals have entered Turkey in this time envelope? You don't know. Can you then take the number of animals entering this time envelope as an increase in the number of animals as a result of your animal policy in Turkey? Does this have statistical value or not? It's as simple as that. I mean, there's no need to fool people. Besides, these animals have brought a ton of diseases. I mean, he's brought a lot of diseases, as he has done great harm to the man who is honorably an animalist in Turkey. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, it's as if, here, we're talking about warehouses where we're going to make all the weed. He says they're allowing the facility to be put away. Yahu is clearly saying that there are obligatory livestock facilities for animal maintenance, housing, water supply. I mean, we're talking about the livestock plant. We say there's a law that paves the way for abuse at the point where you can turn the Mera into big animal farms and take it away from the peasant. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0055par0179	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. [[Continue]] We're moving on to the QA, Mr. Lawmakers. We're 20 minutes out. I'm about to give every person a minute of their ten minutes of questions. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0056par0189	Mr. Secretary, if you forbid tobacco planting in the world, I will congratulate you, but it's free in the world. If you forbid it in Turkey, I can't congratulate you. The farmer's labor, Adıyaman, Malatiah, and Mush farmer's helix tobacco, were slaughtered in the Law of Tobacco and Alcohol Market. I'm warning you and the Ministry right now; I'm warning Mr. Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. The day that law gets here, if you don't lift the bans, Mr. Secretary, I'm not going to put tobacco in there and get out of there. Can I have your opinion on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0055par0191	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0057par0193	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, how many times have you changed the Mera Law during your reign? Has the purpose of these changes been fulfilled, and for what reason? I'd appreciate a heads-up. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0058par0196	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0059par0198	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, last week I visited villages in Meric district of Edirne. A farmer had urethra in the back of his tractor, he bought it from a farm loan. When I asked him how much he had bought it yesterday, he said 1,300 lira. There was another farmer with him, and last week I took him from farm loans to 1,250. When I called before I got here today, they said the fertilizer went to 1,340. Can't you stop the increase in fertilizer and other inputs just when the farmer needs it, or do you have that kind of perspective? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0060par0201	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0061par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, about 100 people in Erzincan were defrauded who had to sell their animals because they couldn't take care of their animals. Of course, the forensics can't do anything because it's about the renewed laws... and you need to work on that. And why did these people sell it? It needs to be investigated. Two: You say you gave a lot to the farmer to distribute these supports, but it's important who gets the lion's share. Third: Although the sugar beets have been released to quotas, Erzincan has a 50% reduction this year. If they make such a good profit, why would they be so low? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0062par0208	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0063par0210	Mr. President, when a farmer who works agriculture and livestock in Manisa goes to the county manager's office, money is cut off between $175 and $230 for the transaction of around 180 pens. What legal arrangement and grounds are these cut funds provided for in exchange for what service? I've asked the question of what studies are these estimated to have found hundreds of millions of liras, but I haven't received an answer. I'm waiting to hear back from you again about where it was used. Again, I have another question: In the mera commission established in our ministry as the county's special administration office, we are also the institution of this sector. How do you feel about it? My third question is that in the village of Hadjibathanler, the village of Gölmarmara was built in the village of Hacıbathan. This barn, built by İbrahim Güngör, is one night at 5:30 p.m.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0064par0214	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0065par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask you again, Mr. Secretary, although Mr. Secretary has told you from the inside of the action that agriculture is in very good places. There is an auto-test center in the fields of Yenişehir, Turkey, and Karacaali villages. 2,600 acres of mera land is disappearing. Now, farmers ask: "We have 2,000 sheep in Karaköy, 700 cattle; 1,500 sheep in Karacaali, 600 cattle in Karacaali. What should we do with these animals, Mr. Secretary? All our troubles have been taken away from us. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0066par0220	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0067par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there was a flood in Erdemli, and Mr. Minister of Economics had come to the government as a representative and said that the wounds would be covered there, unfortunately, the AKP government didn't keep its promise. Not long after that, there was a flood in Tarsus, and your government failed to keep its promises. Are you really a friend of the farmer's, are you really with the farmer, are you going to delay his debt to the Agriculture Bank? Please answer them, because the farmer is really tired of you, tired of you, wants to hear a decent word.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0066par0224	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0068par0226	In Balıkesir district, the citizen still has no fertilizer, no diesel support. Besides, figs, corn, clover supports have not yet been paid. When do you plan to pay for these?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0066par0227	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0069par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a problem with the General Directorate of Agriculture and Loan Co-operatives and the import of about 500-600 tons of hay and grass due to the difficulty between the Regional Directorate of Erzurum and the Association of Drivers and Careers in Artvin Hopa. He's waiting on the ship right now, with all the grass and hay available. That's why there's such a great impression. Today, the act of burning hay and grass was carried out in Hopa. Do you know anything about such an event? Do you intend to compensate for the victimhood of this incident?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0066par0231	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0070par0233	Mr. President, thank you. While this Mera Law was being discussed... we had village mansions built in the past because of the village's corporate personality... so that the villagers could read, get married, have their weddings, have their guests over there talking. Will this law allow the purchase of and rent of this village's mansions, which are considered a field of mera? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0071par0236	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0072par0238	Mr. President, my question just got interrupted, and when I got the chance, I felt the need to ask again. I repeat, İbrahim Güngör, who has built a stable of sheep-saan goats around the village of Hadjibathanler in the district of Gölmarmara, has applied to the authorities for these proceedings when he learned that he must be licensed. Before the deadline for the current building is completed, it is now 17 p.m. on January 18th by the special administration. It must have been destroyed at 00. 200 head goats found inside the building remain exposed in the cold and rainy weather. 40 cubs have been destroyed by animals that are half pregnant. You spoke of your ministry's support for nutrition. How do you feel about these animals being destroyed?
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0071par0240	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, there's been a lot of talk here about tobacco. This has previously been acquired by the state in Turkey's particular type of song tobacco, and this purchase has continued in some way for the past few years. After that, the private sector can only be bought and exported by contractors. Everyone knows about the old app, and I don't think anyone's on his side in this room. So if a product that can't be exported or assessed was bought by the government, kept in storage and burned behind it...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0073par0244	I didn't say that. I'm not saying that. If I'm planting it, let me sell it freely. I don't want anything else, Mr. Secretary. Will you excuse me? That's what this policy is about, Mr. Mevlüt. Don't get angry if you want to, but that's the truth. No, I'm not saying that. If I am, let me sell freely. I have said nothing else. Now, that tobacco grows in my area, too. Yeah. GIDE, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir), I know. And I know how to wrap that tobacco. If I'm planting it, let me sell it freely. I mean, it's in my area, but it's got to be sold out, or it's got to be done inside. Either the cigarette factories will do it, or they're already given a certain amount of access to what they need to do, and they're allowed to produce it. So there's a ban, which you specifically brought here for this job, you know, that you banned it. And instead of that, there's a product, and that product needs to be evaluated. There's a punishment, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mr. Gürkan has mentioned the price of fertilizer. Of course, including the agricultural loan co-op, you know, all the prices in the fertilizer market in Turkey are being evaluated by the private sector, they're being made. Here's what we can do: the manufacturer-- look, I just gave a number from the bench, and I said that $1 billion,760 million is being paid in total in Turkey. We can't...
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0074par0255	Mr. Secretary... If you'll excuse me. We can't... Sir... But don't interrupt me. I'm not interrupting, but this market controls 80 percent of the agricultural loan. Now, Mr. Deputy, the agricultural loan farmer's organization is not the foundation of the Department of Agriculture. It used to be. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) was a long time ago. Yeah, back in the day. The Ministry of Agriculture does not have agricultural loans, which means that agriculture loan farmers themselves share. They produce some of it, import some of it, like other companies, and evaluate a product they import. So, unfortunately, the problem there is that at the exact time of that fertilizer, there's no way to store it, there's no way to store it, there's no way to store it, and just when that product starts to use it, there's an increase in prices, but if you buy it, let's say, 1 million tons, 2 million tons, if you store it in advance, and then you use it for a long time, and then there's no mechanism, and there's no mechanism that we can do as much as we can to the farmer as possible, that's a particular fraction of the mazo and fertilizer that it used for the farmer, and that's going up to about 25 percent of the time between 15 percent and 20 percent. Mr. Secretary, you still haven't paid the supports in Edirne! No, now, look... It was paid everywhere, and Edirne was not paid. In the second part of your question, another friend asked. I just told you, tonight, it's already going into the accounts today, and tomorrow it's going into the farmers' account, and it's making up a lot of diesel and fertilizer support, $1 billion, 400 million.
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0075par0271	Are you paying for the olive damage at the scholarship, Mr. Secretary? There's a section one, sir. Three parts paid, one part stands. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been informed that Erzincan has sold an animal of one of our citizens. Sure, why did the citizen sell the animal? If we're given a little more specific, specific information, we'll examine it, and we'll answer the question. This year we paid $7.6 billion for support. 39% of the support we're paying is diesel, fertilizer and soil analysis support, as well as bonus support, which we're paying for, which is 17. These are grains, beans -- especially those that enter this group -- and fatty seeds -- which are very important for both the feeding of Turkey, and very strategically, from our point of view. Another third pen is the support of $2.2 billion in livestock. The rest of it creates other supports, like insurance support, or agricultural insurance support, rural development support, etcetera. Now, this is paid based on this: prims is paid over the amount, and if fertilizer is like diesel, then whatever product the farmer has planted -- let's say the grain is a different category, and the industry plant is a separate category -- these are given over the area. We also pay 50% of the policy in insurance as a grant, and the premium is given over the amount. So, the system is actually a fair system, so there's no other distinction here, and it's just a form of support for the deed, as it used to be. We put an end to these practices. That's not the kind of practice we're doing right now. Now, in Erzincan, for example -- in 2002 -- I'd like to ask our representative to listen -- the USDA's total support for Erzincan farmers is 207,000 liras, and its support in 2012 is 13,87,000 liras. Now I'm going to leave it to you to appreciate how solid this is, how much increase it is. So agriculture support, which has previously been given to only those showing the deed, is a ten-dollar support per decedent, can be given in very different categories, in different ways today. As I was saying, 13 million, 897 thousand liras of bailed out by the Erzincan farmer within a year. Now, there's something Mr. Oz said in particular about the district of Gölmarmara. Of course, the practice of the county's private administration is strictly within the law. If there's an illegal procedure, he'll be accounted for anyway, so you'll ask him, and we'll ask him. There's an app made at the site, probably in an unregistered location, which is what you said. Therefore, we can only say about it after the examination. But the first thing we know is that he built a building that he shouldn't have done on the street because of the invasion and rape of the Mera Law. In fact, what we're saying here is that the bill that we've brought in today has to do with this kind of practice. The Mera commission gave us two months to evacuate the shelter. At the end of the time, the invasion and rape continued. Hence, an application was made to evacuate according to Law 3091. The Ministry's money for the return capital, in exchange for some of its expenses, or rather, in exchange for the transactions, has a significant share in it; it goes to the Treasury, to the Treasury, to the Treasury, to the Treasury. And that's how we tell you about the legislation, and that's how we answer the questions you ask there. Mr. Demirözüstın Yenişehir district of Karacaali....about the allocation of the car test center in 232 square areas.. 2,600 per cent, Mr. Secretary, 2,600 per cent. This is by the county mera commission. It's not 232. The 14th Article of the Mera Law (c) was not a single person in its place, so the mera commission is not a single person. I know. Will you excuse me? There, at the mera commission, he is a member of many public institutions and NGOs of that mera commission. So, they're all in the form of a law, whatever it is, so... oh, this mera commission is open to all of us, even if it's against the law. So that's what they're saying. The debts of our farmers affected by the flood in Erdemli and Tarsus district have been postponed for a year, so after that, let's say, if something happened in the last month, we're bringing them together, and we're doing it. Other than that, Mr. Cloud said, "When will the money be paid?" The money goes into your bank account tonight, and tomorrow it goes into the farmers' account. I think he's prepared the question before, Congressman. And $1 billion,410 million of this is diesel, fertilizer and soil analysis. A total of $1 billion,670 million. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER
tbmm-2013-02-27sit02spe0076par0291	Our time is... I'll tell him a sentence. We're out of time, but two minutes, if you want, I'll give you an answer. All right, all right. You'll answer me later? GEDA, TRAVEL AND ANIMALITY AFTER MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir). Okay. So the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
