tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations, the response time is 20 minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Kolkar, who asked for a statement on Turkey's opening policy on the African continent. Mr. Konkar, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Turkey's opening policy for Africa. On this occasion, I salute you all. Africa, with 54 countries and more than 1 billion people, is taking its place on the world stage as a continent that has the potential to achieve rapid economic growth in many countries, momentum in transition to democracy, and hope in terms of natural and human resources. Of the 10 fastest growing economies in the world between 2000 and 2010, six are in Africa. With only three countries on the continent in 1989, this number exceeds one third of the continents today. In the second half of the 21st century, Africa is viewed as the century of Africa, and as a new actor on the global stage, Africa is important to all world states. Today, powerful countries of the world are competing for the resources of Africa. In particular, Africa, south of the Sahara, with its short name the SAGA (SGA), is guaranteed to be more intense in the coming years, and more competitive in this region. In this framework, the sub-Saharan Africa and most of the African continent have become one of the primary areas of our country's foreign policy. Precious lawmakers are considered by our country, a model country and trusted partner in the process of the Admission Policy for Africa, which we have begun to implement with the SAGA countries in order to build a network of economic, political and cultural relations. Our historical history with the continent is very important at this point. Since the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire has fought as a force against the European colonialism that has begun to be mauled in the region, providing material and spiritual support to local peoples. Both our economists and we today have taken care of the creation of common interests in our bilateral and multilateral relations and strengthening the bond of partnership. Rather than creating permanent solutions to the fundamental problems of Africa, most of the countries who are interested in Africa today are seeking a share of the wealth of these countries, Turkey is different from those countries. Dear MPs, within the humanitarian dimension of Turkey's approach to the continent, we provide humanitarian and technical assistance to countries in the region, supporting development programmes. Today we're building our Somali policy on a completely human basis. Our Prime Minister's visit to Somalia in August 2011, the opening of the Mogadishu Embassy in November 2011, and the start of our Turkish Airlines campaigns in March 2012, has always been in this framework. For Somalia, who struggled to survive in the summer of 2011, only our nation's voluntary donations amounted to $500 million. This policy, which we run on a completely human scale, has contributed greatly to our country's reputation on the continent and the world. In Africa, as in many countries around the world, TİKA has built wells, building schools, hospitals, dorms, cultural centers, providing for infrastructure, food, medicine, and medical supplies, implementing thousands of projects in full human form, in good time and in good time. As part of our policy of opening up to Africa, the esteemed lawmakers were established as observer countries in the African Union in 2005, strategic partners in 2008, co-operation summits and review meetings attended by all African countries at the highest level, and Turkey-Africa partnership has been established on a solid basis and has been stable. As a result of our political determination, the number of embassies of African countries in Turkey increased from 10 to 21. Very recently, the number of embassies is planned to be raised to 34. Since 2008, there have only been 41 high-level bilateral visits with the SAGA countries, which have been reached by our Prime Minister's visits to Gabon, Niger and Senegal last week. Mr. President, we have provided substantial support from African countries in the process of being elected to the United Nations Security Council in 2008 as a result of this decisive and meticulous policy. Our trade with SGA countries alone has increased by 10 times in the last ten years to $7.5 billion. In 2011, we aim to increase our trade with all African countries at $17 billion to $50 billion in the coming period. As I put an end to my remarks, our President, Mr Abdullah Gule, our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Foreign Minister Mr Ahmet Davutoglu, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and TİKA employees, our public and civil society organizations and our beloved nation, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Cockar. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Gürkut Akcar, MP of Antalya, who wants to talk about developments in Mediterranean University and Social Security County Directorate. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, I have been promised to share some developments in Antalya. I salute you. I'd like to share a few points with you since we haven't had a lot of opportunities to talk off the agenda. The first is the pressures, intimidation and exile of our doctors at the Antalya Social Security Directorate. The doctors who examined the bills of private hospitals were scolded by the Governor of the Province because of you. After the doctors reported it and filed a complaint, the pressure increased. The county manager put an investigation into a doctor's disciplinary action first. When this sentence was lifted by the Antalya Province Disciplinary Board, other investigations were raised this time, doctors were first sent to the counties, then deported out of the province. This painting is unacceptable. One wrong procedure the doctors saw, they wanted to fix the overpayment, and they're all over the place. It's not the job of the county manager to guard the private hospitals' bills. When there are serious deficits in the system, most of the bills are uncontrollable, it is unacceptable for doctors to be exiled. This is the Governor of the Province, he must be removed immediately, the Minister calling the county manager must resign, and our doctors must be returned to their posts. The social security system is on. It's a shame that those who say, "It's a shame that the poor pay their special hospital bills. " Dear friends, another issue is what happened at the University of the Mediterranean. The University of the Mediterranean is on the agenda with some allegations, luxury car cars, staffing. I don't want to have an argument over single names, but it has been reported that a congregational staffing has been attempted by the rectory, medical school, and those who have been brought to high-level positions under hospital administration. Many well-grown scientists, university-identified names, are forced to leave the university. Colleges should be institutions of intelligence and science. The draft of the SEC law shows that universities will further distance themselves from these concepts. Silent, obedient universities and young people are wanted. We don't want that. We don't want a university with community staffing, luxury cars, corruption. I think these matters need to be thoroughly investigated. Dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about the stadium to Antalya. TOKI operates everywhere like a hubby machine that transfers the values of cities to allies. The target now is Antalya. While there is nowhere else to be a city square, the stadium will be built. For the stadium, which is 40,000 square metres of square feet of space, it has been left to its pleasure as a commercial plot for 40,000 square feet of stadium. TOKI is building for land. TOKI does business, not community service. For months, I've been asking what will be done in return for the stadium, but I can't get an answer. We're gonna get another 65-story runt project? I ask the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I ask there, not a single sentence is answered. This is disrespectful to Antalya. I don't want that information for my own personal pleasure. The people of Antalya want to know what to do with 40,000 square meters in exchange for the stadium. We're waiting for an answer. We do not accept that Antalya, which contributes billions of dollars to the country through tourism and agricultural production, should be treated as a merchant with the understanding of hitting the bird of tea with the stone of tea. I condemn the establishment of the stadium in exchange for the land of Antalya, which pays the most taxes, while building the stadium in the state's pouch by 13th. Dear friends, the most beautiful cities in the world are famous for their squares. There is no other city square in Antalya. TOKI has set eyes on Antalya, all the gaps that should remain in the green area. Next, the TeKEL plot at Mevlana Crossroad, the battery factory and the weaving plant plots. Antalya is being looted with quarryes, with HESEs, and even if the enemy comes, it won't do so much damage. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Acar. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, who wants to talk about the problems of the village rangers. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, I would like to welcome you to share with you the problems of our temporary and voluntary village rangers, the respected members of the Turkish nation; the separatist, destructive, separatist terror. I salute your high council. The village administration was the most important element of the administrative structure of the young republic in the 1920s, which started development from the village. The village Law 442, which has been adopted by 80 per cent of the population based on the fact that they live in villages, provided proper arrangements for each area, and equipped the village chief with the authority of a high-ranking government official. In this framework, it is possible to assign village rangers to serve as armed and gendarmes under the chief's orders to protect the rape, life, and property of those living in the village. The village rangers were a law enforcement force to protect the villager from bandits and harvest time from the marauder. The village rangers have successfully carried out their duties along with our chiefs. By the 1980s, when the separatist, destructive PKK terror replaced Armenian terror by enemy altars became serious, our state needed more service to the village rangers and added to village law 442 today's protection system in 1985, with the provision of additional 18th article. The temporary village ranger system, launched in 22 cities in 1985, was carried out in an extraordinary manner announced in 1987, started to pay the rangers in 1992, and increased the number of cities where the system was implemented to 35.000 additional rangers were received in 2008. Until today, temporary and voluntary village rangers, soldiers and police, have served as lions in the fight against terrorism with their comrades. Temporarily and voluntary village rangers wanted the Turkish flag to fly in the land where they lived, and the Turkish state to rule; so far they have given 1,696 martyrs and 1,916 wounded, veterans, to prevent a pack of murderers and coyotes from travelling on our land. Our village rangers, their families and villages have been targeted by heathen, faithless, murderers, and murderers. PKK terrorists have committed 52 massacres in Şırnak alone since 1987. Terrorists from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who say they are acting on behalf of our Kurdish citizens, but are not of Kurdish origin, have brutally slaughtered about 30,000 of our people. From time to time, our rangers lost their lives, their blood, their organs, their infant in the fire, their child playing in the garden, their wife doing their jobs in their homes, her father's mother, her younger brother, and her sister making dowry; and from time to time, they sent her family to their relatives in distant parts, and they continued in their watches and duties. Whoever was in the face of separatist terror, they put their political choices aside and took sides with him. Like our soldiers, our village rangers, who sacrifice like our police, who don't spare their blood, their lives, spend their whole lives in places they serve because they're their homeland. That's why they're on the bandit's target board 365 days and 24 hours a day. That's why the problems of our village rangers must be resolved at once. This is a task for the ruling party, for all of us at last. Our village rangers have a price of 810 to 880 dollars below the age of starvation. This year's salary increase has been at a funny level like $10 a month. These fees should be at the level of wages given to the underprivileged men both in volunteer rangers and in other rangers. Retirement pensions, around 365 TL, are a very funny number. It's only fair that this number will be raised to minimum wage. Low operational compensation must be balanced with military personnel and paid regularly everywhere. In operations, travel money and rations must be provided privately. Social security shortages and irregularities must be resolved immediately. The village rangers and their families, the villages they live in, are troubled by the fact that yesterday's AKP was without strings, and that today's PKK people were involved. The village rangers are preparing to teach a lesson by the Metropolitan Law to the AKP (AKP) who surrenders themselves to the political understanding of the terrorist organization and its extensions. The village rangers are determined to continue living in the shadow of the Turkish flag despite the AKP-PK-BDP co-operation. They asked me to pass these on to you, and they said, "This is to be known." I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. I'm gonna give our friends who've been in the system a minute of questions. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Artvin Province is a beautiful town in Ardanuk Province, where the population is up to 20,000 in summer and 11,000 in winter. The last court of this district, unfortunately, is closed by the decision of the HSYK. Ardanuç is 40km from Artvin Province, and any village of Ardanuk is about 30 to 40km from its own district. A person must travel more than 150km to the district centre and then to the courthouse in Artvin County. That's about 50 to 60 liras. In Turkey, where cases last more than a year, it is impossible for people to reach access from the courthouse. Therefore, the immediate return of the HSYK and the Ministry of Justice from this wrong decision regarding the closure of the Ardanuç Courthouse is urgent for the removal of the victims of our citizens there. Once again, I present this matter to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you, my dear President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Gebze is an industrial centre in the district of Gebze. Four organised industrial regions are located north of Gebze, Jersey and Darica. At this point, both E-5 (E) and TEM (TEM) have passed, the industry has caused a traffic jam in the mornings and evenings during a period when the previous work force from Gebze to İstanbul (Gebze) has now arrived from Istanbul to Gebze (Gebze). Therefore, I believe it would be right to give up an entrance north of Gebze (Gebze) at the entrance of North Marmara and TEM to reduce the loss of labor in the organised industrial region. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0011par0069	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. First, our fellow journalists from the region inform us that they were forced to join AKP district organisations and went there and were not hired before they went there, our journalist friends in the government hospitals of Balıkesir, Bandırma and Edremit. Unfortunately, it has recently begun to be applied in Turkey, in hiring, as a basic criteria for membership, beyond concepts such as justice, polytheism, education, and equality. That's a very dangerous way to go. Are these claims true or not? They're being investigated, and that's not what our party members are telling us, it's what our journalist friends in the area are telling us. The last six public hospital assistants will be taken to six public hospitals, and our citizens who have applied there will be turned to AKP.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is my character. He says that Rauf Denktaş, the founding President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, who we lost last year, is an indispensable one. I bow before the spirituality of the founder of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus, Rauf Denktas, who put his life on the line to ensure freedom, independence and survival of the Turkish Cypriot people, and ask for God's mercy. I also refer to God politicians who don't appreciate Denktas, the man of great ideals, claims, and cases. In politics, sometimes cats are fed to rats. Denktaş had to suffer such a fate in his last days. The only thing we're going to say about this is, let Baht be ashamed. Denktas has received the mercy of Hakk, but he will live and live both the state and the cause he founded. Let it not be forgotten that those who kill their heroes in the face of their doom.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0016par0089	Mr. President, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting supports the manufacturer for $225 per animal. 5 per cent of this is cut into the bank as income tax. As the number of manufacturers exceeds 200, 20 per cent and the higher troops receive 2 legal cuts per thousand, and the manufacturer gets $168. With the application notification in 2011, the manufacturer's troops could cut by around 30 per cent with general board decisions. The failure of the application is said to be a general board decision and the farmer's written permit, with a new application notice in 2012. Our manufacturer, who is left with $168, is left with $117 if the general board's decision is carried out. Our manufacturer pays $100, so we're down from $225 to $17. However, support payments are not transferred to the manufacturer's account in seven days, even though it is indicated in the application notification.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0015par0092	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Dear Silver...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you. I'd like to talk to you about Balıkesir Medical School. There's medical school in Balıkesir, medical school, there's no emergency, there's no emergency, there's no oncology, there's no oncology, there's no oncology, there's no MRI, there's no labs for patients' needs; there's no departments, there's no plastic surgery, there's no outside teachers. We're wondering if they can't find an AKP doctor to assign them here. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. Silver. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. The Republic of Turkey is going through a difficult time. It's a Kurdish problem that hasn't been solved in about a hundred years, and we've lost about 50,000 citizens in our country due to the last 30 years of internal conflict. At last, the government has begun an internal peace process so that the blood of this flowing brother will stop and the mothers won't cry. Under this internal peace process, all obstacles can be faced, and we have experienced the same obstacle in Paris. The government must make an effort to resolve this problem without being discouraged. Besides, anyone who wants Turkey's unity and unity must support the government in this regard. Everyone has to pay attention to their language and actions, to avoid provocations. So, I'd like to point out that I'm here for the government to do everything in its power to resolve this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0020par0105	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0021par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to heavy winter conditions in many parts of Asia Minor, roads have been corrupted, water has been frozen, infrastructure has been damaged, people have been victimised. In order to support village roads and infrastructure, additional funds are needed. Emergency assistance must be made to victims and private administrations without distinctions in the municipalities of power-mutation. That's why I'd like to invite the government on duty and get the attention of the concerned ministers. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0022par0111	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0023par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Our students are having trouble studying at the Osman Tan Elementary School in our district. For that reason, the school building is inadequate. The roof of the school building is flowing, the floor is broken and worn out. The windows are not resistant to the cold, and therefore all applications are in vain, the necessary measures are not taken. I'm speaking from here to our Minister of National Education, Mr. Dinçer, that you perform the appointment of teachers and also correct the physical conditions of our schools. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0024par0119	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0025par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a huge profit scheme in Turkey. There's a profit scheme that takes down the livestock manufacturer, cools off production, makes the fields unplantable in areas that are rapidly urbanizing like Antalya, Mughla, and corrupts greenhouses, transforms them into land for construction at the first opportunity. This has clearly made Turkey a country that quickly erosions its agricultural power and condemns it to imports and endangers food safety. In 2012, there is a difference between the producer's price in table olives and the consumer's paying 374%; it's mind-blowing. The difference between 300 per cent of the lemon and the price of the manufacturer in eggplant and the cost of consumers has passed by 150 per cent; this has remained at 65 per cent in tomatoes, reaching 140 per cent in milk, finding between 80 per cent and 100 per cent in fruit prices, 55 per cent in red meat. The extreme difference between the price of such a producer and the price of consumers is fundamentally bombing production in Turkey. What measures does the government consider?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0024par0124	Mr. Acar, thank you. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, we offer and demand that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and the Constitution's 98th and TEMMM Institution to determine the current problems of our citizens who are producing bees and producing honey, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be taken. [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] 10) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[Paddles]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Yozgat]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] In our country, 54,574 families are beekeepers with 5,785,371 hives. The beekeeping industry produces 74.5 thousand tons of honey, making $3372 million for our country's economy. As of the world's number of bee hives, our country is ranked number two, and is ranked fourth by the production of honey. However, the world's honey production of 5.7 per cent is not sufficient for the production of bee products, such as bees' milk, pollen, propaganda, bee venom, and cosmetics. In our country, they're all about beekeepers, traveling beekeepers. In the process, our beekeepers face some bureaucratic barriers, which affect the beekeeping industry in a negative way. In the beekeeping industry, where the concept of time is very important, bureaucratic procedures need to be facilitated. For the future of beekeeping, it is important that legal arrangements be made immediately according to the actual conditions of beekeeping in our country. Since there are no proper inspections of beekeepers' materials, problems in bee health require production and implementation of bee health projects across the country. In our cities with the potential for beekeeping, experts who can inspire and instruct our manufacturers to implement the right methods need to be trained and employed. It also reduces the efficiency of these technical staffs, which are already inadequate to deal with different issues. Illegal access to our country must be blocked by honey, wax and other bee products. Artificial honeys that the bee does not produce should not be allowed to market. Otherwise, it is a danger to the health of our citizens, and it is also a victim to our citizens who are engaged in beekeeping. Today, it is the centre of pine honey, which is first in the country with its hives and honey production; in 334 villages, 5,800 families have been beekeeping in total of 950,000 hives, offering sweeteners in tourist destinations as honey. We have great duties in our Grand Assembly to determine the present problems of our beekeepers, to address these problems, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. In order for our Supreme Assembly to carry out this mission, we respectfully request and demand that parliamentary research be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Administration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of our country's most important agricultural centers, Çukurova region's cotton manufacturers, we would like to ask that parliamentary research be opened as required by Articles 104, 105, and the Constitution be carried out in order to meet the measures and practices that need to be carried out. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Elizipt]] [[Lug]] [[Manisa]] 7) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tripoli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Tekirdağ]] 11) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Yozgat]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] Pamuk is an industrial product that provides a vast area of business with agriculture and industry, with its silk and textile industry, its dewite and oil industry, and its cattle industry, and its exports and its foreign trade. Cotton production in Turkey is well below your need and therefore can't afford consumption. Production in the Çukurova region has been reduced because cotton planting in our region has stopped being economical because of the effects of disease and harmfulness in recent years. The most affected province in this region has been the province of Adana, one of the cotton depositorys. There is also a cost problem in the production of cotton. Although our country's efficiency in cotton production is above the world average, the rise in input prices is threatening to reduce production, its sustainability. Entrance prices, problems with the small business structure, labour costs, tax rates on agricultural goods and services are significant cost factors for the manufacturer. In input pens such as seeds, medicines, fertilizers, electricity, diesels, VAT and STV are required to be raised to a reasonable level and to increase agricultural support. If a national policy is not created in cotton, production will be reduced year after year, and the entire need for cotton will be met with import. In recent years, the fact that cotton prices in our country have been under the markets of the world has left the farmer in a difficult position and the Turkish textile sector has become dependent on the outside again. To resolve the high cost issue of Turkish cotton and to increase production and compete with world prices in this way, cotton policies must be reassessed, the conditions of the rival country and the prices of the world should be considered in determining cotton support. In our country and especially in the Çukurova region, the amount of support in the production of cotton is insufficient for rival countries, covering input costs, making cotton production profitable and encouraging. As a result, the preference of other products in cotton-producing areas in recent years has been one of the main reasons for the decline in production. The premiums and policies for support in cotton are important to be informed and paid in the same period before planting by producers, as they have recently been, and to encourage predetermination, stability and production. In order to strengthen and stabilize the cotton production and marketing structure, the necessary legal arrangements are needed to create policies to address the problems of cotton-based co-operative units, the administrative and financial structures of TARISTIZ and ANTBIRK. In this context, it would be appropriate for agricultural sales co-ops and their troops to continue providing appropriate interest-related loans, similar to the DFIF loan. One of the most important agricultural centers in our country is the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in order to conduct the necessary research on the detection and resolution of the problems of cotton manufacturers in the Çukurova region, and to meet the measures and practices that need to be carried out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems that students will face after training in İmam-Hatip upper secondary schools," we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research as required by Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, on the grounds stated below. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] 4) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Erzurum]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Kastamon]] [[Samsun]] 20) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] Imam Hatip High Schools (IHL) is the head of educational institutions that raise religious leaders in Turkey. Today, the IHL graduates can find work in the mosque as religious ministers or theologians at the official Koran Schools. The total number of clergy in our country is said to be around 1 17,000. Some 100,000 of this number is also expressed as serving in our mosques around 85,000. When we assume that an imam and a muezzi are in each mosque, we must have around 170,000 religious officials in our mosques alone. The difference between the current number and the number that should be is a clear indication of the need for the religious man in our country. In our mosques, especially in the villages, our religious men, who were imams, were left to perform prayers to the congregation, and to perform other duties. At the engagement, at the wedding, at the birth, to appeal to imams, to adorn the good with the verses recited from the Qur'an, and to be strengthened by the prayer of imam. When death comes, it is still applied to mosque officials. There is no overtime for the imams who perform them; they must perform the prayer on seven days a week, each hour of the day, as well as perform it with dedication, not to burden themselves with it. They cannot afford to refuse these requests from the citizen. In that case, the clergy in the mosques are known to be faithful, obedient to their word. The religious man must pay attention to every step he makes in his community, every word he says. Although the Imam knows that his work is difficult, he is aware that he has done one of the most beautiful professions in the world. Because he knows that imam is a job as a prophet. Before prayer, he gives religious information to the congregation, during holidays, to children, and delivers messages of the holy spirit that must be given. Imams should be able to convey not only to the people in their environment, but also to tourists from foreign countries, but also to the sacred messages of Islam, science and science. With that reputation, he should be able to speak at least another foreign language in addition to Arabic, which is the nature of his profession. It is of great importance that our imams, who have played such a role as the leading role in society, should be given a proper education in this role. After eight years of mandatory education, the middle part of religious education has been removed since 1997. It is important that those who want to become religious leaders receive sufficient infrastructure training so that they can have the proper equipment for this task. For reasons stated above, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems they will face after education. The motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 16,01,2013 (today), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Our parliamentary research proposal, which we submitted on Wednesday 16,01,2013, was read in the General Assembly (now) General Assembly, in order to determine "the measures that need to be taken by investigating the problems of cotton producers and cotton farmers," which are number 10/434 in the section of The General Assembly's General Assembly for Discussion and Assembly Research, has been proposed to be held in today's Union of its talks. Ali Halaman, Adana MP, on behalf of the National Movement Group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0026par0307	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the parliamentary research motion we've submitted on behalf of our group regarding the problems of the cotton manufacturers. I salute you all. The use of subterranean water, the use of fenni fertilizer, has often been the result of increasing plantable cotton fields in Turkey, in which our country has high agricultural potential. The units established after the 1955s were head of products exported in the raw materials of the industry, in the purchase and sale of cotton. We come from countries where we export cotton for many years, because of recent economic, social, political difficulties, we are the head of countries that import cotton. Despite exporting cotton in the past years, we are the second country in the world that imports it today. Pamuk was a major commodity in Turkey until the 1980s, a strategic product that had been the raw material of industry, the basis of food, the intersect of animal oaths, fuel and heating. After the 1980s, free market laws, privatisation, the European Union law on harmonisation made cotton products unguarded -- particularly the level of high interest in cotton companies -- against the cotton producers of cotton-related companies such as ANTBIRC, NICOBIRD, TARRIS -- have been the result of the input of cotton deposits, so-called domestic fertilizer factories, which we can call domestic fertilizer factories, the sale, the failure of the Mediterranean Fertilisation plant, the production of agricultural loans co-operts, the steady high interest interest, the continuous imports, the strains of fertilizers, which we can call the cost. In previous years, cotton was exported to similar countries, such as Greece, while cotton was taken from Greece during this period of government. When we used to make the purchase of cotton on our own markets, in our own industrial enterprises, recently the cotton manufacturer has been constantly questioned because of the price of cotton, the purchase of cotton, the input cost of input, the seed of cotton fall into the hands of foreigners, given the benefits, bonuses, the conditions of competition, or agree to it. Today, collecting machines, imported tractors, imported fertilizers, agricultural medicines, imported seeds, overwatering fees, other people's price assessments, the closing of cotton-related industry or the importing of cotton, the passing of cotton into the hands of al-steers, since cotton -- is not for sale. The cotton has a habit of renovating its plant, making it stronger. Cotton doesn't tire the soil. Snow must be protected, not left at the mercy of global business institutions. Now it's $1,100, $1,200. If you file a file, if there's a deed, there's 462 lira support. But that price was six, seven years ago, $1,100, 1,200. Pamuk producers, especially the United States, China, India, Pakistan, Spain, Greece, Afghanistan, Egypt, have no cotton policy in Turkey. There, cotton is a product that must be protected and supported. Mr. President, why is the Department of Forests and Waterworks making this water meter, which has been forced to place a water meter in front of wells in the fields of farmers who have recently been watered down by water farm farmers who have been pulling from underground wells with their own resources for years? I mean, what's the point of saying, like natural gas, I'm going to take money from you when the crops aren't worth so much? Did he make the deep wells himself, what did he do as a minister? I've built a dam, I've laid a canal, you can sell that water, but what right does it have to say, "I'll take money from you, I'll buy money from you, I'll sell it, I'll put a meter in front of a farmer's well, who'll dig deep wells with his own resources that you don't work for?" Now, he says to the farmer, "You're either going to put the water meter on or I'm going to cancel your well." If you have water, bring the deed by the end of February, take your license, put the meter on. Did you give away the deeds of those who farm by paying the price, and you want the deed? For a hundred and fifty-two hundred years, you've occupied the farmland he's worked on. You said you'd sell it to you for 70 percent of the market value. These people, these farmers, why do you treat people who work in agriculture and produce and pay taxes, who support the children of their families, who are loyal to their state, their country, their work? What's fair about that? What's fair about that? For forty-nine years, you gave away the rivers of the state for free, you gave them the right to use water; we will build jobs, we will employ workers. You have given land, you have given people land, you have built a business centre; we will build schools; you have given the land of the state to those who say, "We are a foundation. We are a foundation; you have brought out the law of the foundations, you have given the land and the deed to the minorities. Why don't you accept the Turkish farmer who does agriculture by paying for money and give him the deed? What conscience, what right do you get to have a water meter installed and sell God's water to a farmer? It's not the right thing to do. I wish you'd give it up. Farmers are already paying 80 percent indirect tax. Because you're selling, you're getting a blockage, VAT, corporate tax, real tax. The agricultural workers have already become very poor. Therefore, on the last day of February 13, 2013, you have no right to say, "Bring your number, put your meter on." You have no right to push the farmer so hard, to make him poor. You gave it to others, don't ask the farmer for a water meter. So, I'm on the stand to say all this. I thank you all for listening, and give my regards and love to the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0027par0324	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. The second speaker on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group is Mr. İbrahim Binici, Şanlıurfa MP. Mr. Rider, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0028par0328	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the group's recommendation. I salute your high council. You know, cotton, which has a very important value of added value, is used in about 50 kinds of industrial products, particularly textiles. Snow is an important export property, as well as a remarkable product of its employment during the production process. However, in Turkey today, as with many agricultural products and livestock, we have become one of the world's largest importers in cotton, due to the wrong agricultural policies imposed by AKP governments. Precious lawmakers, cotton used in about 50 kinds of industrial products, including textiles, oil, biodiesel production, are also used as an important input in livestock as high-end animal food. The cotton plant is an agricultural product of strategic importance because it has so much use. What is so important to our economy is that in cotton, our country has come to the point of losing its position in the world's cotton production and trade. Our country, which has ecologically lucky geography for cotton agriculture in the world, has been brought to an end by false policies. The most important problems the cotton manufacturer has to deal with are the higher production costs. Although the yield of cotton in Turkey is above the world average, input prices are an important cost factor for the manufacturer to pay tax rates for agricultural goods and services. The average cost for 2011, according to data, is around $1.65 per kilogram, while the average price of the sale is $1.20 per kilogram in the same year. This cost and sale price is only 37 cents per kilogram of support from AKP governments. The cotton farmer, who suffers in the face of this situation, is quickly moving away from the cotton crop and is trying to get his alimony out of different products. In fact, during the 2012-2013 season, most of the cotton fields were shifted to corn and wheat crops, especially in Çukurova, Harran and Aegean. If the policies in cotton agriculture continue, the crop fields will gradually decline, depending on the fact that there will be fluctuations in product supply. In addition to reducing changes in crop fields, the effects of cost, price and given support, another effect is a customs tax exemption from cotton due to the Customs Union Agreement with the European Union. Due to customs exemption, domestic cotton prices are directly affected by world prices and our cotton farmer is left vulnerable to world prices fluctuations. At the point where we consider the 26 per cent of the textile sector at the head of cotton use areas, cotton agriculture and its planting are once again subject to sustainable policies. I'd like to share some data with you to explain where cotton agriculture is coming from as a result of the AKP government's implementations. With 1.4 million tonnes of cotton consumption, Turkey was ranked fourth in the world, unfortunately becoming the 2nd country to import and not supported by this consumption production. In 2002, 496 million dollars of cotton were imported, while in the first nine months of 2011, $1 billion,501 million of cotton was imported. According to the farmer's registration system data, the number of cotton manufacturers declined by 113,000 in 2003 to 77,800 in 2011. There were 35 per cent reductions in cotton plantations from 2002 to 2011 due to wrong agricultural policies in the AKP administration. In 2005, the premium for 1 kilogram of cotton was 32 cents, while in 2009, 2010 and 2011 the premium was 42 cents, and has been 42 cents since 2009. Between 2002 and 2011, the low price of cotton was reflected in the power of the manufacturer to buy, while the cotton manufacturer's ability to buy was 70 percent in mazotta and 80 percent in fertilizer. In the last six years, only 33% has been increased in gas support paid for cotton production. The orator before me, he's a friend of ours who actually knows how to make cotton in the Adana area, and I think he's even doing it. In 2000, when I was Director of Urban Columbia, you were able to find a buyer for the cotton that we bought for $1.100 today at $950. The inputs vary between 300 per cent and 500 per cent, and on top of that, our underground-water producers dig deep wells of their own capacity, up to 180-300 meters, maybe 500 meters, all their plumbing itself, not a penny from the government, but that's where the cotton manufacturer comes in today. In Viranşehir, Prime Minister Viranşehir says to the public fifteen days ago: "You are thieves of electricity. " Yes, he can't sell his entire field to the state if there is no electricity in the region. It's a reality, the reality of Turkey. When you plant cotton, when you work deep wells in your own resources, our people, unfortunately, are encouraged to bad places by the wrong agricultural policies at the electric point. This needs to be supported, here, our farmers don't need to be offended. So, certainly, our people are honest, transparent, personal; our farmers have character, so they didn't get into anything like that. I give them my greetings from here on behalf of all cotton producers from the council bench, and I wish them all the best. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0029par0348	Thank you, Mr. Rider. The third speaker on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, in favour of Mr. Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP. Mr. Baydar, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0030par0351	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to investigate the problems and solution proposals of cotton manufacturers and to open parliamentary research to determine the measures to be taken. Dear lawmakers, as good as the government is, our producer is good, our producer is good, we support this much, we bounce so much. Even if he says so, our farmer has his head in his hands, he thinks over and over again. Our farmer thinks about the cost of diesel, fertilizer, seeds, and a lot of input. Our farmer not only thinks, but also tries to identify problems and solutions by holding meetings amongst themselves. On 26 September 2012, at a meeting in Söke district of Aydın Province, the issues I mentioned upstairs were placed on the table. This meeting briefly mentioned problems stemming from the importing of Greek cotton and US cotton, the losses of GSM 102 loans provided by the United States, the problems caused by the manufacturer's ability to operate cotton, and the problems caused by the too much cotton planting costs, and they were brought to the government in every way, but since there was no solution, the future of cotton was again brought to the table under the leadership of the Söke Trade Exchange Exchange Exchange. The producer's representatives, the mill sector, the string industry and cotton agents and brokers gathered together to rewrite their proposals for problems and solutions, announcing them to the public in the declaration. The declaration signed 80 sector representatives, not eight, who made a living on cotton, and they called the government on duty. So, what do these representatives want? In addition to the extreme cost of input, the failure of low cotton price to sustain production, the lack of support premiums, the problem of business standards in jerry enterprises, the control issue of the right time and conditions of cotton harvest, the problems caused by the farmer's and the farmer's trust-style sale, the failure of agricultural troops and licensed storage to the required level, the continuing problem of pollution and contamination in cotton and fiscal legislation. Not only have the problems been identified, the representatives voiced proposals for a solution. As soon as the cotton is declared strategic product, the strategic proposals of 80 sector representatives -- friends -- quickly implementing the watershed-based application system, continuing the cotton support bonus as a Turkish lira based on 400 kilograms in the decarriage, preventing agriculture from implementing price difference in the agricultural Law, quickly taking control of cotton harvest in the appropriate time and conditions, taking control of the quality of licensed depositories, taking up storage of agricultural troops, using the use of goods to prevent pollution, and lowering the use of good agricultural practices, and lowering the last one percent of cotton in order to implementing materials, including the use of the last one percent of the company's insurance. Is it so hard for the cotton manufacturer to meet these demands? Is there a request among these demands that cannot be made, or is it too extreme? Then why are you covering your ears with all the sector representatives of the cotton industry? Dear lawmakers, the Government and Agriculture Ministry are so unaware of the seriousness of the issue, and here's an example: I told the Minister of Agriculture that it was shown to the Minister of Agriculture that there was an increase of imports, with insufficient supports, in Söke, on September 26, 2012, in the future of Pamgun in the Ege Region, and in the 2012 Season 102 credits of the United States, according to 2011, that cottonfields were reduced by 25 to 30 per cent, and that the cost of that, as a result of that, were set by the fact, by the cost of high entry, the cost of the cost of subsidiaries, and the cost of importing of the Ministry of cotton imports, and I asked the reason why the GSM $102 credits of the United States, especially because they thought about all of agriculture, and the cost of agriculture, and the cost of agriculture, and the cost of the entire agriculture, as well, and because they had been set by the Turkish markets. The answer was given in detail the amount of support -- which I didn't ask -- and there was no answer to my other questions. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Economics, Customs and Trade could answer those questions. They can't. Brothers and sisters of the farmers, hear me, my brothers and sisters, who listen to me on their television. The Department of Agriculture has only been associated with agriculture in its name. I'm asking: do you intend to add one hand to resolve the problems of the manufacturers? They say: "Ask the ministry, the ministry, these ministries." You know, when you removed the bureaucracy, when you removed the cumbersome structure, like in the advertisements of a news channel -- you did everything that appeared to the country, like a sun on the ground and in the sky, all by yourself? What would a citizen do, my dear friends, when you're making a bureaucratic climb to even a congressman? The entire Department of Agriculture can't answer GSM 102 loans, it shows another ministry. Ask them. But how will a ministry without agriculture respond to the problems of producers, dear friends? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I understand that the Department of Agriculture has lost its sense of a cure for trouble. So I went ahead, and I asked Mr. Prime Minister this time, and I said, "Mr. Prime Minister, as a government, do you intend to remove VAT from the fuel and OTV from the fuel to comfort the farmers and the workers in the transport sector?" Are there sectors in our country that use fuel without VAT and OTV? What's the reason why they don't take VAT and OTV? I asked if we have exported fuel products, what is the export price? The second paragraph of the response, the introduction line: ▪ First of all, I would like to say that... you understand the introduction of this sentence, my dear friends, that the two-page answer doesn't really mean anything. And in the rest of the sentence, it's said that the government is trying to support farmers in all areas in accordance with budget opportunities, and the amount of support is explained. I remind the government that you're drafting the budget. If you give the farmer a small cut of the budget, I'd like to make it clear to you that you'll begin by saying...... by admitting your guilt. Mr. President, dear MPs, let's continue with the response: The Akaryat surrenders are subject to 18 per cent VAT, since they are not listed on the 1st list in Decision 2007. The year of the decree is 2007, the AKP with the decree. Let's move on: the fuel given to ships carrying cargo and passengers, commercial yachts, services and fishing vessels is zero, my dear friends. What decision has it been reduced to zero? 1/7/2003 is the Council of Ministers' decision 2003/5868. The year is 2003, Government AKP. But the government has one reason: there are no tax cuts and exceptions from those who use them under the OTV legislation due to support from the Food, Agriculture and Animal Ministry budget. Brothers and sisters, the government tells you: "I will not remove the WTV because you have received support." What kind of government are you? How are you with the farmer? You block your ears, you close your eyes, you close your mouth, you don't talk anymore. Therefore, this Parliament supports the opening of its research, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0031par0361	Thank you, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0032par0362	Mr. President, look, as groups, we're discussing the agenda of an issue, the motion of research to address the problems of Turkish agriculture and cotton producers, and we're sharing with his government the views of his opposition on this, but when such a subject is being discussed, I think it's against Parliament's will to show no interest, not even a member of the minister and a member of the administration. Therefore, I would like the ministers of the AKP Group who are on guard to at least show up and respect these MPs' speech, if they have a lesson to learn.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0031par0363	Thank you. Your words are on the books. The last speaker of the National Movement Party Group's proposal is Mr. Mehmet Erdem of Aydın. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0033par0367	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group upon the meeting of today's General Assembly of Parliament's motion to investigate the problems of the MHP Group, cotton agriculture and cotton manufacturers in order to determine the measures that need to be taken. I salute you. My dear friends, I'd like to begin with the words of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. Prime Minister, it is not possible for us to develop Turkey without developing Turkish agriculture. He has expressed it over and over again, and I find it important to be reminded of it here once again. The goal of our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is that growing agriculture marks the growing Turkey, and our ministry has a Turkey target that is constantly developing its presence with branded agricultural and food products in the world. As of 2002, our country was ranked 11th in the world and 4th in Europe, while today the 7th in the world became the 1st country in Europe. The agricultural sector has grown in seven of the last eight years and has achieved the most stable period of the last fifty-two years. In 2002, our agricultural national income, which is $23.7 billion a year, reached 62 billion in 2011, and increased in 2012. Yeah, it's one of the most important numbers to show that the agricultural sector is growing, where we've come from. In 2002, agricultural interest rates, which were 59 per cent -- these agricultural interest rates that our farmer used -- were reduced -- were applied between zero and 7.5 in 2012, and our farmer received cheaper-cost loans during the EC PARTI period. The balance of loans used by the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans was $529m in 2002, while the amount reached 22.3 billion in 2011. Pamuk is one of our most important agricultural products, strategic products, produced in many parts of the province of Aydın, and our country, and in the past, our people, our citizens, our nation, our manufacturers have named cotton by the expression "white gold." Cotton, the indispensable product of textile, fat industry and animal food production, is among the most important agricultural products in our country and the world. According to its 2010 values, Turkey is ranked number eight in cotton production and number three in cotton yield. Cotton production, which has an important place in Turkish agriculture, is produced by about 74,000 producers. Turkey has produced 2,320,000 tons of wool in 2012, some 501,000 hectares. Between 2002 and 2009, cotton fields have suffered declines. According to 2010, there was also an increase of 13 per cent in the cotton field. In 2010, in particular, cotton prices increased in the world and in our country, bringing good income. Despite declines in cotton fields between 2002 and 2009, cotton yields have been recorded. In 2002, heavy cotton yield, which was 350 kilograms/sweat, took place in 2011 as 476 kilograms/development. In 2011, 2 million 580,000 tonnes of wool were produced in 2009, with an increase of 50 per cent compared to 2009, which produced 1 million 725 thousand tons of cotton. In 2012, an increase of about 34 per cent compared to 2009 is expected to take place at 2,320,000 tonnes. Yes, cotton prices: There have been criticisms about this too; it is true, there is a decline in cotton prices, but this decline is associated with world markets. From the beginning of the 90s, the world's cotton prices have been severely reduced. Especially in the 1994-1995 season, cotton prices have gone into a rapid decline trend. One of the reasons behind the rapid decline in prices is that cotton consumption does not increase at the same rate, and the increase in world stocks is also affecting our Turkey. Of course, in 2010, due to some negatives after 2009, the floods, droughts in China, the floods in Pakistan, and the floods in India, the rising prices in the production following 2009, were caused by the decline in production, and the rising prices have also been felt in our country, which is the trend of cotton production. Of course, with the development of textile industry in our country, increasing the production of cotton imports year after year, has been determined by our Ministry and by our government as the ultimate goal, and has continued by increasing bonus support at the point of support for cotton. As we look at the amount of support given to cotton since 1998, there has been an increase, but in 2002 in particular, only 8.5 cents for cotton, while support for the cotton today has been raised to 46 cents by the AK PARTI government. This is a significant increase, about five times the support of the cotton has been increased. 30 agricultural basins have been established within the framework of our Ministry of Agriculture's Agricultural Basins Production and Support Model, and 13 basins have been decided to support cotton production. In 2012, 74,486 farmers were given bonus support for the 2011 cotton crop, when the manufacturer paid $1 billion 120 million in Turkish liras. During the time of our rule, for the first time, Mazota has been supported and our cotton manufacturer is supported by 12.7 Turkish liras, plus fertilizer support for 2012. Yes, further support for land analysis and rural development investments is given to our cotton manufacturer under the support of machinery, equipment, planting and harvest machines and again the Agricultural Insurance Act. The National Cotton Council was founded in our time of power. Of course, Despite the support of the state and the efforts to save people in the past, it is also thought to be in a difficult position as manufacturers today and not to provide support as a union for the cotton manufacturer. Of course, a speaker friend of our Prime Minister's is stealing electricity. A sentence like that is completely unrealistic and completely untrue. Such a sentence was certainly out of the question with our Prime Minister. I'd like to underline that as well. Of course, especially when it comes to water counters, friends, what our government wants to do, it's not like the water meter is to be installed, it's essentially our goal to be more disciplined by the undisciplined use of subterranean waters. In the Plains of Iconia, you know, there were sinkholes caused by those collapses, and all over Turkey, our government and State Water Affairs are looking into it to discipline it. Yes, cotton production will continue and cotton production will continue to increase because Turkey's textile production and exports are increasing. I salute you all again with respect and love at this point.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0034par0385	Your Grace, thank you. Talks have been completed on the nationalist Action Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0035par0388	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit01spe0034par0389	Yeah, I'll just call the number of decisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Yeah, the clerks couldn't agree on the number of decisions enough. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations with Malatian MP Mahmut Mujahit Nutiklı and Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun; 3 MPs; 3 Electric Market Law and 3 Special Taxes Act on the Amendment to the Law on Consumption and Special Consumption Taxes Act; and the Plan and Budget Commission Report shall begin. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 393 rows of numbers. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the whole proposal. Mr. Yellow, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0036par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on behalf of the Republican People's Party for the Constitutional Law on the Law on Electrical Marketing and Special Consumption Tax Act. I salute you all. The law has a lot of dimensions when both the bill and the proposal are evaluated together, but in 20 minutes, as objectively as possible, but I'd like to make a general assessment of our own thoughts and shortcomings. What I'm going to say in the first place is that there are some problems with this bill and the seriousness of its proposal, which is, basically, far from serious. Although, we had a number of concerns about how seriously the laws, the laws passed during the AKP administrations, the process of making laws, were taken seriously, and we saw many examples of that. It is possible to say something similar about this law. (x) 393 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. As you know, in the framework of the relevant legislation, both the Plan and Budget Commission and the relevant commission need to be analysed. So with this law, what kind of tax burden, what kind of tax is being waived, how much tax is being lost, how much spending is being spent, how much tax revenue is being waived? Evaluations on this need to be done in a medium and long-term perspective. Such an assessment of this law has not been made. Because it's a law of encouragement, and because it's a law of encouragement, it strongly recommends giving up tax revenues or tax revenues. We asked the Minister about it at the Plan and Budget Commission. When we asked, "Do you have an impact analysis, how much tax do we give up with this law?," the Minister gave us the figures of the U.S.V., which was abandoned in 2012, and the cost of incentives. According to the Minister's figures, in 2012 -- since this law was enforced -- because we'd extended its deadline now -- 250 million would have given up a tax of 58 million, 308 million. Now, normally, impact analysis is done in a medium and long period, facing the future. When a law proposal is prepared or a bill is drafted, its impact on the total tax on the total public budget is carefully studied and put in front of us. In the middle and long term, lawmakers know what the burden of this will be on the total public budget, and they decide based on it, that's the way it should be. But that didn't happen here, let's regret it. Second, we can also say that this bill or its bill is insincere. Now, essentially, the fourth article of this law proposal is critical, and the fourth article is actually trying to resolve a supply safety issue. Since natural gas use will increase in winter, secondary fuels are used to create a natural gas problem in gas power-producing plants using natural gas, and let's bring out STV exemption in these secondary fuels. It's prepared with an understanding. The 4th article basically regulates this. But when we look at the reason for the substance, we see this insincereness. In its motive, it says that if it doesn't have this OTV exemption ahead, it's likely that the electricity that consumers use will increase. So, we're making a bill of law like this to prevent this increase or to save consumers from possible electricity increases. It says that it's a very insincere approach. Because, I just told you, it's basically a matter of supply security. So it is the power that has to solve problems with supply security. And it's not right, it's insincere, it's insincere, it's inadvisable, it's in the way that it looks like it's blocking possible increases, in a way that would look nice to the consumer with an electric bill. I have a few reasons for that. For example, the power of the board, which will be recognised in the construction-enforcement projects within the framework of the law, is only 2.6 percent of the power of the entire framework. So the power of natural gas and secondary fuel use plants is 56, 000 megawatts in Turkey today, and we're talking about 1,500 megawatts under the law. So we're actually talking about a smaller area, a much smaller area, but we're trying to look cute to consumers and citizens by talking about the reflection of a much smaller STV arrangement on electricity bills. If this hadn't been passed, it wouldn't have been clear how much impact this would have had on electricity bills, but I'd like to say a few digits from a report or a painting by a concerned congressman friend. The electricity produced in January 2012, using secondary fuels in the circuit plants, is worth 38.6 million in January, 84.8 million in February, 5.2 million in March. If this had been produced without SVR, so that would have been 28 million, so it would have given up a $100 million tax revenue, and that $100 million would have been reflected in the bills, and now it's not reflected in this camel. According to my research, Turkey has around 28-30 million electricity subscribers. Given that the average electric bill is $100 a month, it pays about $3 billion a month in electric bills, citizen. If OTV had not been taken into effect in this manner, if the procedure had not been taken within the framework of the relevant law, the average amount of $30m of electricity would have been reflected in the electricity bills, which means 1 percent of the total electricity bills. If we want to lower the electric bills, if we really want to reduce the electricity bills, or if we want to prevent potential increases, I mean, if we want to lower the public's electricity bill, we have to look elsewhere, not here. I don't find it very meaningful to come up with such funny reasons. For example, I have a citizen's electric bill. The electricity bill for a family of three is in Ankara. Total consumption is 274 kilowatts, multiplied by 0.23. 64 liras. The total cost of consumption is 64 lira electricity billed for citizens. But for some reason, this $64 electricity bill went up to $98 when we landed at the end of the bill. So, what's the difference? When we look at this difference, $10.27, the price of distribution, 1.8 cents, the price of selling staff, the price of reading 0.42 cents, the cost of communication system use was $2.33, the energy fund was taken from 0.64 cents, the price of TRT was taken from $1.28, the electricity tax was taken from $3.21, and the electricity bill was suddenly increased to $98. So, the $64 electricity bill went up to 98 lira; 53 percent, the bill was half as swollen. Now, if we're willing to download the bills, if we're claiming that we're making this arrangement on such grounds, and we're putting it on this basis in an insincere way... if we're really sincere and we really want to take down the public's electric bill, then it's obvious where to look. So, you have to look around here, real price bumps are around here. This is where the citizen was robbed, where he paid the $64 electricity bill for $100, $98. So I find it more intimate, more realistic, to make certain arrangements here. I think it's extremely insincere to put this into the law, considering possible increases in the 1% electricity bill. As I just stated, it's a matter of supply security. It is the government that must resolve this, the AKP government has been in charge for ten years. Now, it's important to ask: Why don't you increase natural gas storage capacity to meet this demand in Turkey when the demand for gas increases in winter? You've been in power for ten years, what are the developments in this matter? Why couldn't you solve this problem? Mr. Secretary of the Plan Budget Commission says that storage capacity should be 15 per cent of the total consumption under normal conditions. When we asked him how many times in Turkey, Mr. Secretary made it very clear that he was one in twenty. So a government that has to solve the supply safety issue doesn't take steps, it doesn't solve it, and when there's a problem with supply, let's give it up, let's use secondary fuels. He's trying to figure it out, he's creating a tax loss, and then he's trying to hide this tax loss to make it look cute to the citizens. I just want to say that I can't make it up to the Minister, and I can't make it up to the friends who draft the proposal. So there's a supply security problem, there's a problem, it's very clear. My fellow lawmakers, the second important issue here, of course, is the addiction to the outside of energy, and especially the addiction to the outside of natural gas. Again, when we speak our thoughts on this matter, Mr. Secretary, he says, "Do you have any advice?" How much we recommend... not just us, but the relevant NGOs, occupational organizations in this area, other political party representatives say and say what they think, and we say it every chance we get, but for some reason, there's been no improvement in the ten-year period of government. Look, I'm going to give you a few digits: the dependence of total energy consumption on natural gas in Turkey is 33 per cent, our dependence on natural gas is 98 per cent, and our dependence on two countries in particular -- Russia -- is 58 percent of this 98, Iran is equal to 76 per cent. We're trying to govern a state in a highly risky political development, and in a geography like this, we have a very high probability of conflict in the middle and long term, or that we're likely to face the policies that we've implemented in particular. Hence, such reasons must be considered when foreign policy choices are made or when foreign policy is designed. In electricity production, we depend on 46 percent of natural gas, or 98 percent of imported natural gas, and we use 46 per cent of it to produce electricity, so we do 46 per cent of electricity production through a resource or through an element that we depend on 98 per cent of. The EPDK must have realized that the strategy document he published on 2023 is something that says that in 2023, we will reduce the 46 percent to less than 30 per cent. It's a good... good strategic choice, he thought of lowering it to one third and put it in front of him as a strategic choice. But when we look at the applications or look at the developments on this subject, we see that we're moving in the opposite direction. To illustrate: The possible power capacity of plants that are licensed and invested is 17,000 megawatts, which we can produce electricity with natural gas power power plants that are running. The application, the study and evaluation-based project or other forms of plants have a possible installed power of 33,000 megawatts. These are 90 percent of our current board force, 56, 000 megawatts, so we're building plants that we can generate with almost this much more natural gas power plants on the current situation. So when we look at it from this point of view, in the middle and long term, we are at risk of getting 46 percent reduced to 30, perhaps 46 percent higher. The EPDK must act on its strategic goals, and the government must develop an energy policy in line with those strategic targets. If this is real, I mean, these megawatts, if the production of electricity with about 50,000 megawatts of natural gas is real, we need the additional 70 billion cubic metres of natural gas. Given the political developments that we've gone through, the political developments that the Middle East has gone through, the conjunctural conjuncturing of the world, the 70 billion cubic metres of natural gas that we need need needs to be explained in what way, where, how, and how to provide it. So, if we're pursuing an energy policy, if we have an energy policy that's central to the reduction of external dependency, if we have strategy documents like this, I think these things need to be studied very carefully. I hope Mr. Secretary will have a chance to enlighten us with some assessments on this matter. The offer consists of six items, a few of which are extremely important, except for executive and... In the relevant articles, my friends will bring you up to speed on this, they'll make evaluations, but I'd like to make some evaluations as we discuss a few substances, mostly. Now, the first article of the law rules that production and retail activities must be done and divided into separate companies. Actually, it's an old sentence. His time was full on 1 January 2013, which is extended by this law, with this legal arrangement, with or with the bill extended. Now, it's important to ask: Why was this dissolution done on January 1, 2013, but not carried out in accordance with the rules of the law? I have to ask, why is it that after all these years, these decompositions haven't been completed for four or five years? So in this sorting process, the institutional tax and other taxes are being exempted from the legislation, and we've made some assessments of this in the Plan Budget Commission, and we've said that the value value value should be here, just as the institutional tax should be in the relevant law. We've had the opportunity to put the arrangement into the law with the commission's ability and with the Minister's participation, and we've done the right thing, and I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for that. Article 2 of the law is a very important, very controversial, social-sized area, and it is also a matter of regional tariffs and national tariffs. Now, what's important is that it's actually a regional recipe, so whatever area in the market mechanism uses as much electricity as it does, whatever the missing number of fugitives is, it's being put into the public bill in that area. For example, the cost of the missing fugitive in the X province is not right in the market mechanism to have a citizen in Y County pay for it. In fact, the main thing is to avoid this missing fugitive's national rate system and pass it on to the local rate system. I know the Ministry agrees with you, but unfortunately for the matter, we see that you can't get any distance from the desired speed and the desired process. Therefore, the legislation is being extended to 2015, and the Council of Ministers is granted a five-year mandate. We also understand from this authority that this may not be completed in 2015. So I think the ministry needs to resolve this issue quickly, and I think it's important that citizens who can't afford to pay their bills -- and we know that there are very serious problems with this issue in the East and the Southeast -- a certain amount of electricity consumption within the social state framework, the parameters of a certain kilowatt -- can be discussed or afforded by the state -- can turn into an important gain in fighting the missing fugitive. The cost of this, the burden on the budget, the rest of it can be discussed, we can discuss details about it, but you know, like in water, some municipalities are doing it -- or you know, by separating price, a certain cubic metre or a certain kilowatt, I suggest that citizens of narrow income should be met directly by the state, as a direct extension of the social state's understanding, which is unable to pay even the minimum of the electricity bill. I think it's a proper procedure until the missing fugitive's arrangements are in place and the system is in place until the market is set. Like I said, I'm not going to go into any details, and my friends are going to make an assessment. I hereby wish the law, the proposal, and the bill to be good. In light of our values, I hope that the AK PARTY MPs will also make some assessments in this framework, and I offer all of you with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0037par0038	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. The second speaker for the groups is Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0038par0042	Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the National Party of Actions on the motion of Law 393. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, AKP governments have not taken the necessary measures to satisfy supply deficits and ensure supply security in electrical energy. During the AKP administrations, energy investments in total public investments have been steadily reduced. In 2002, the percentage of energy investments in total public investments was 20.8 per cent, while in 2012 it dropped by 5.8 per cent. 20.8% where, 5.8% where! You know where you're from? It is expected in the private sector with incentives to eliminate supply deficits and provide supply security in electrical energy. In our country, the ratio of energy demand to domestic production is increasing. The demand, which was 48 per cent in 1990, was met with domestic production in 2009 by 29.5 per cent in 2009, 28.5 per cent in 2010, and 27.6 per cent in 2011. There is a constant decline in domestic resource use. In the event that current policies continue, there is an inevitable increase in external dependence on energy. 98 per cent of natural gas, 91% of oil, 90 per cent of stone coal, which covers 87 per cent of Turkey's primary energy consumption, is imported. Twenty-five percent of our $216 billion imports in January-November 2012, or $55 billion, belong to energy imports. 239 billion kilowatts of electricity produced in 2012 were made from natural gas, 27 per cent from imported coal, 24 per cent from dams and streams, 2.4 per cent from wind, 4 per thousand from geothermal, 2.6 per cent from other thermal plants. Our electricity production from 2004-2011 increased by 62 percent, while our electricity imports increased by more than 10 floors during the same period. Production is increasing by 62 percent, imports are increasing by more than 10 floors. In 2011 4,550 gigavatsaats were paid $86.5 million by importing electricity. In January 2012, 11 months of November, electricity imports were paid $217 million. In 2011, $86.5 million, $217 million in the eleven-month period of 2012, so either a large amount of electricity was imported in November 2012 -- which doesn't seem to be so; 4.555 gigavats in 2011, only 4,486 gigavats in the first nine months of 2012 -- or an excessive increase in the cost of the unit of imported electricity. I'm taking advantage of the Minister's explanation of this matter. In the first month of 2012, Greece was sold $23m in electricity, while electricity was imported for $50m. Now, I'd like to ask you: what are the unit prices in the trade in electricity energy with Greece? How much do we sell electricity to Greece, how much do we buy from Greece? Of course, because of these trade agreements, these prices are kept confidential for obvious reasons, but we also want to know if we have a profit or a loss here. Mr. Secretary, during the Commission talks, we are now selling electricity to citizens for 35 cents. In 2010, 181 million dollars in electricity exports were imported, $20 million in electricity imports. In the first decade of 2012, $190 million in exports and 217 million in imports were made. For 2013, a 2.75 per cent increase in the installed power bid is estimated to be 2.75 per cent, while the average increase in demand is estimated to be 6.5 per cent, minimum 5.5, maximum 7.4. Thus, in 2013, electricity seems inevitable to increase outside dependency. In order to reduce external dependence on energy, local and renewable energy potentials need to be activated as soon as possible. According to reports by the Turkish National Committee of the World Energy Council, Turkey can produce 150 billion kilowatt hours of electricity once it activates its resources. When we think that 2012 consumption is 239 billion kilowatt hours, it seems that we have the capacity to export more than 500 billion kilowatts. However, by the government, Turkey's potential is unfortunately unusable, which is being applied for imported resources to cover the energy deficit. The current board is licensed to stone coal plants at 18 per cent of the power. Along with those under the license, a new imported coal plant will be established at 41 per cent of the installed power, which will also increase the import of coal. In 2009, the Power Energy Market and Supply Safety Strategy Document said that the share of natural gas in electricity production will be reduced to less than 30 per cent. However, 44% of the electricity produced in 2012 was produced from natural gas, while 28 per cent of the current board was granted a new natural gas plant license. The application will be able to build additional natural gas plants at 88 per cent of the current body's power, along with the plants in the evaluation process. As a result, Turkey's dependence on natural gas will also increase. So it turns out that the government's target is going to the opposite conclusion. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, our citizens are paying the price for unfair tariffs that reach the degree of persecution in exchange for the energy they consume. In 2010, the number of fugitives lost in electricity increased from 14.7 per cent to 16 per cent in 2011, and the cost of loss of 16 per cent in missing fugitives and 2 per cent of transmission is on the citizens. Besides, it's unclear whether the loss of transmission is 2% or 7 per cent. We're making a question motion, we're giving 1.99 per cent transmission information, but we're looking at the Minister's speech on the commission, and he says there are places where the loss of transmissions goes up to 7 per cent. So in some areas, on the ground, transmission losses reach 7 percent. From four percent to seven percent, there are areas that have reduced the number of fugitives to 2.5 per cent, which means the loss of transmission is much higher than 2 per cent. In Turkey's average -- if we take the average of both responses given by the Minister -- there are at least 4 per cent loss of transmission. So it's 16% missing, illegal plus 3-4 percent loss of transmission. Currently, a electricity bill receives 2% TRT share, 1 per cent energy fund share, 5 per cent municipal consumption tax, 15 per cent missing, meter reading and retail service price. And then there's the value tax to add to them. These burdens have crushed the citizens and increased their production costs in a way that is unnecessary. Also -- we just said -- that a very important part of our energy consumption is already based on imports, and therefore the price of energy in our country needs to be adjusted and determined by the price of energy in the world markets. However, while the world's energy markets dropped gas, electricity, oil prices, electricity increased by 34 per cent from October 2011 to today, compared to 40 per cent to natural gas. During the period when the privatisation strategy began to be implemented from December 2007 to December 2011, the distribution service price increased by 142 per cent, retail service price by 155 per cent, and the public delivery service price increased by 124 per cent. At the same time, single-time home subscribers increased by about 85% in agricultural irrigation and low-tension industry subscribers. In 2010, inflation was 6.4 per cent, while in 2011, electricity was increased by 68 per cent. The price of cutting electricity has increased about 10 times inflation, transferring an additional 55 million Turkish liras from consumers to distribution companies' vaults. He considers the increase as an update; in 2011, he said they did not have information on extra collection from consumers due to an increase of about 10 times higher than inflation. How do you keep track of the market, how do you manage it? Dear friends, these aren't upgrades, they're basically robbing citizens. In 2011, the price of removing the meter by the Energy Market Editorial Board was raised by 3 times higher than in 2011. Distributors have used counters and counterfeit prices as a means of sanctioning, and subscribers have been forced to consent to the change of the meter. The total number of times removed by electricity distribution companies by 2011 and May 2012 is 2,317,000. Really, there's no question that there's a need to take out 2 million, 317,000 meters. In place of these counters, $102 million has been collected from electricity subscribers at the price of the new counters. The validity period for the incentives included in the Electric Market Law is extended again. The mandate to extend incentives to the Council of Ministers shows that extensions of incentives are not determined by the government based on realistic data. Despite all incentives, this proposal shows that the power power supply deficit cannot be repaired by the private sector and supply security cannot be maintained. After that, we understand that his suspicion that it can't be achieved continues in the government. Therefore, the government has an approach to providing electricity from anywhere, no matter what the cost. Due to the lack of time for necessary investments and the lack of private sector investments, public electricity has been forced to surrender to market conditions in supply shortages. With the cost-based price equivalence mechanism and the application of national tariffs, citizens are sentenced to the functioning of the market mechanism, profit motive and unfair costs. Mr. President, with the 3rd article of Law 5784, electricity distribution companies are obliged to conduct production and retail sales in separate legal forms starting on 1 January 2013. The first article of the proposal aims to avoid taxing the segregation process, which is started by distribution companies. In this regard, the 19th and 20th article of the institutional tax is table number 4 of the stamp tax. The statements in the title lu and the division and segregation of Article 123 of the Law of Harçs (the Law) are subject to exceptions to taxes and tuitions. However, for obvious reasons in this arrangement, the exception is made more evident by saying, "If the dissolution process, based on this Power Market Law, is carried out through recorded costs." The second clause of the proposal is to continue implementing the cross-subsidies national tariff of electricity prices, which expires in 2012, so the period is extended by 2015 for three more years. However, it is not satisfied with an extension, but it is authorized by the Council of Ministers to extend the duration of this law for another five years. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is actually a confession. What is this confession of? This arrangement is a confession of shortsightedness, a result of failure to achieve goals and the failure to manage energy policy well, and a confession. You're making an arrangement in 2008, and I'm going to apply the national rate model until 2012. You say, four years later, you can't do what you say. Then you extend the deadline another three years, and then you authorize the Council of Ministers to extend it another five years, which adds up to 12 years, friends, and it's still unclear if it will be completed after 12 years. If you guys can't do a job in 12 years, I can't help but ask what you're doing in the government. According to the national rate model, the EPDK sets a single recipe for each subscriber group to be implemented throughout Turkey. Electric distribution companies that profit according to the price equivalence system provide cash support for the damaged distribution companies, and this subsidies, missing fugitives and operating costs are being done towards those who are higher than low areas. So it's useless for our citizens to understand that the price is equalizing and the national rate mechanism is here on the stand. The point is, some of our citizens take responsibility for these missing fugitives' costs, even though they don't use missing electricity. It's unfair, and our citizens object to it. Dear lawmakers, the 2010 distribution was about 25 million megawatts and 28 million megawatts in 2011. The energy ministry estimated the number of missing fugitives in 2011 as 23 million megawatts per hour, which was reflected in electricity bills and collected an extra $3.3 billion from electricity subscribers in 2011 as a missing fugitive. What did you do with the difference of 5 million megawatts in 2011 when the number of missing fugitives occurred at 28 million megawatts? Were these collected in 2012? We're curious about that, too. Also, Clumsy 1. The original Court of Law should be based on the fact that when a consumer objects to the cost of missing fugitives and meter reading, those who use energy without a subscriber and therefore without paying for it should be found and collected from those people. In the same decision, he decided that the cost of illegal electricity use could not be collected from consumers and that the cost of missing fugitives and meter readings taken earlier should be applied to the court and returned to the consumer with legal interest as a backslider to the subscriber. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, due to the end of my term, I will end my words here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0039par0063	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The third speaker, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, is Mr. İdris Baluken, Bingley MP. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0040par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on behalf of the Power Market Law and the Proposal for the Amendment to the Special Exposure Tax Act and the Amendment to the Special Consumption Tax Act. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, before we express our views on electricity production and policy related to this, I would like to share with you a few issues concerning global, regional and national general energy policies. Energy policies, especially in the global sense, have actually come to a stage that completely governs the domestic and foreign policies of all countries, along with developing technology. It increases the level of energy that technology has come in, its search for the supply of this energy needs has brought up a review of global and regional equations and the reshape of policies accordingly. In particular, it's because of global policies that have been changed into this energy need that we're going through a period in which elephants are re-exploring the continent of Africa, in the Middle East, and in Asia. On the other hand, some studies on technological research are being tried to implement in the global balance of power, particularly in some countries, such as the European Union, where it is useful to remind them about the discovery of new energy from some of the materials found in the dumpsters. We think it's particularly important that these policies, particularly the Caucasus and the geographical and humanitarian victims in the Middle East region, show how recklessly these global energy policies are being maintained. The Nabucco Project, which includes the Middle East and the Balkans, has brought together global hegemonic forces and their regional collaborators, and on the other hand, the Blue Stream Project, which has been conducted within a different bloc, is now able to say that the current state of energy policies actually exists. And we don't think that all of these processes in our geography are independent of these policies and these wars on energy. It's possible that these global equations that exist for energy and natural gas today are variables or policies that will not soon affect our daily lives in order for wind, for water, for electricity again to bring up the rule of hegemonia. Dear lawmakers, especially having energy sources has become a global policy issue. In the process of redesigning these condensed equations in the Middle East today, we do not consider these processes involving energy in our domestic policy or foreign policy in any way. Look, even in Parliament, which represents 90 per cent of the people of Turkey, we have not been here until today, unfortunately, in search of new policies, as a result of these original sessions on these global or regional energy wars or new equations that are being created. Here, of course, we need to state the government's current insensitivity immediately. In fact, as we approach the Middle East, the government's overall nationalism and some sort of sectarian foreign policy determination has left the country today at a very disadvantage over these equations that are developing around us. Today, the level with which we are most associated with energy or with Russia, unfortunately, announces the dangers of a war that could be triggered at any moment. Again, our approach to Middle Eastern policy through nationalism and sectarianism, our approach to regional equations, particularly the Federal Kurdistan Region, has led us to a number of very serious errors over the years and resources that could come from there have been wasted so far. We would like to point out that in the past few years the new trade volumes, which the government now has to present as a source of pride, are something that will guide the energy policies of the coming period. Of course, the approach to the Federal Kurdistan Region is, in fact, a clear picture of where we think the country's interest in Kurdish policy or in the Kurdish problem that we live in now exists. Especially since the beginning of 2013, we're hoping that the last few weeks of debates have been reflected publicly in the government's view of such strong strategies to reassess and establish new policies. Dear friends, valued lawmakers, especially since we think it's important to share with you here again the energy demand and the cost of this need before we address Turkey's internal energy policies. Today, Turkey faces a grave picture of energy costs. In fact, although there is a position of a country that has the potential to meet all needs for energy, unfortunately, current energy costs remain Turkey's Achilles tendon. We believe that the annual bill is around $50 billion, and especially considering the fragile economic structure in Turkey, if we remind you again, we may have made it clear how important the research of new energy sources within the country or the ministry's work in this direction could be. With such a serious cost on the table, the AKP's government has much preferred to put the cost on the people's backs to this day. On almost traditional New Year's Eves, the rise in natural gas and electricity also shows a desperate repetition that the government has actually entered into. Today's increases in electricity, natural gas and gasoline have reached a level where citizens will burn the hands of our people, and unfortunately none of these processes will be able to meet any process related to the state's energy drain. Dear lawmakers, when we look at AKP's energy policies, we get two parameters in particular. So what we need to say is that the inadequacies of existing policies about energy production in there, the other leg of the population, the ecological destruction in front of the public, and the privatisation of the population, which is based on the exploitation of the people. There is no need to give details about Turkey's resources here. In particular, however, I would like to point out only one thing about the misdetermination of these energy policies during the AKP administration: the electricity increase between 2007 and 2011 during the AKP period -- the electricity increase in four years -- was 88 per cent. So we think that even this painting shows that we need to review existing policies on energy. Likewise, according to the study of a household, a family's monthly electricity consumption increased to $36 in 2007 for a data bill, while in 2009 the bill increased to $62. So here we have to re-examine energy, economic general policies as we discussed them both on a global scale and within the country. While referring to AKP's policies on this electricity, energy-related policies, it was also discussed at the session just now. I would like to point out here the error of the process of turning illegal electricity use into a campaign, which is a cause of discrimination, especially in some of the approaches that exist. In particular, I would like to point out that both cabinet members and interested ministers have made statements about the excessive use of illegal electricity in the area in which Kurdish people live, and that the media reports in this direction are a very misleading, dissociative and altering approach. In fact, you know that most of the electricity production in Turkey is being produced in the area where the people you're trying to blame are living. Today, all lawmakers here know that the Keban Dam, the Karakaya Dam and the Ataturk Dam provide a large majority of the current electricity production in Turkey. And again, given that the resources that have been transferred to these dams have been reflected in public by the government in the form of $19 billion, considering that the income from these 3 dams exceeds $24 billion, we think we've made it very clear how unfair this separatist, other approach is. On the one hand, you will meet a large portion of the country's electricity needs from the dozens of dams that exist in that region, and on the other hand, there will be power cuts that make life unbearable throughout the districts, including Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Urban, Bingol, Batman, but you will be insensitive to them, but on the other hand, you will use a language and style to blame the people who are there to turn it into a campaign, and we need to emphasize that this is wrong. What we can tell you about the fugitives here -- the Minister is here, perhaps he'll make a statement -- is that we need to consider the fact that all of the transport vehicles in the area, all the wiring in the area, are old. Again, on the other hand, we need to stress that even the amount of electricity transferred to several factories in the Marmara region, especially in areas where the industry is dense, is actually far more than the amount of illegal electricity in the cities that are being charged. Given the difference between the electricity billing for industry and the electricity billing for houses, I think we'd be making the error of the language that separates it from illegal electricity. Of course, let's stress again that it's important to make some new assessments of the need to be a social state about energy supply, that the amount of energy up to certain levels should be free if possible. There were some research motions that we had already submitted to the House on this matter. We actually have statistical data on the poverty limit in Turkey, the hunger limit, or those living below minimum wage. I'd like to stress again that freeing electricity or gas supplies to this particular part of society is the principle of being a social state. Dear lawmakers, in addition to electricity, again, natural gas and gasoline, need to take a look at AKP's current policies, practices. Look, the current price rate has increased by 200 per cent from the day the AKP came to power in natural gas, with policies so far. Again, a liter of gasoline rose from 0.58 euros in 2000 to 3.68 euros in 2010, and today it has reached a level that will reach almost 5 TL. Here, again, I'd like to stress that it's important to address some of the problems that people have experienced in everyday life about privatisation. In particular, it is a very important challenge in the everyday lives of our people that companies who distribute electricity should cut electricity because they don't pay the bill and reflect interest rates that go to the public to turn these electricity back on, as well as the costs that we can't make too much sense of in the form of opening-and-off. The fact that electricity given in villages again, especially with this privatisation process, has achieved a level that the public can't afford to pay, has again brought serious victims into our everyday lives. So we think that twice a month, the invoice, the income level that doesn't pay the bill, the people who don't pay the bill, the extra fees that they have to pay, and all of that, the money that's going into the delivery companies' safe, should be reviewed again. Of course, the orator friends who just spoke also stated that we also need to make sure that the taxes that exist on an electric bill can achieve a level that exceeds almost the electric cost of electricity. Today, in an electric bill, the price of loss and distribution, the price of meter reading, the price of retail sales, the cost of use of the delivery system, energy funding, TRT share, electricity consumption tax, and, as I say, the pens that are made up of a lot of pens, almost as well as the price of electricity, are, unfortunately, in the presence of our people. Look, I think if we stress that an electric bill of 108 TL is only due to the use of electricity today, and 45 percent of it is tax, we'll probably be talking about it. Another issue of electricity and energy policy is the ecological destruction of the AKP's policies, the ecological thala. ESPECIALLY throughout the country, HES projects, which are trying to build from the Black Sea to the east, to the southeast, threaten both biodiversity and public health, and actually bring about a very important damage to future generations by watering down our cultural and historical heritage. I guess no one here can say that the HES projects have provided the energy they need so far. So I think if we were to say that the amount of energy for these HES projects from here can only be earned in line with the restoration of the old transport systems, I think we'd be able to say how important the issue is about these projects. Bills, taxes, pocket-burning energy increases are the main pursuant to these energy and economic policies. I'm going to state a few things about the law here. We'll rephrase our views on the laws or the motions. In particular, the bill provides a reason why the bill does not reflect hikes to a citizen's bill under the name of the national tariff. So it turns out that the rate of increase and increase in bills that have already existed has not been right. In fact, what's being done here again is we have to say that there's been a process of tax exemption of investors, owners of capital. If we stress in 19/10/2012 that the Energy Market Editor's Decision 4089, the profit margin of these distribution companies has been increased from 2.33 per cent to 3.49 per cent, the profit margins have increased by close to 50 per cent, we think the intention will come out the same way. So what I'm trying to emphasize is that I think it's important for the country to review this energy, economic and political policy. Since we have not seen the processes in favor of the public in this bill, we will use the vote as a group because we have not seen radical analysis of these policies. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0041par0091	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the groups, the fourth speaker is Mahmoud Mujahit Nutklı, Malatya MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Nuts, here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0042par0095	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to change the Power Market Act 393 and the Special Exposure Tax Act, and I salute the High Council and all my fellow MPs. Dear friends, our proposal for the law has come as part of the measures the AK PARTY governments have taken so far to avoid projecting high energy costs to the public's bill. This understanding is the essence of our energy policies. Our main policy and aims, based on energy supply security, are to prioritize resource diversity in domestic and renewable resources, speed up the search for oil, natural gas and coal in the country and abroad, give free market conditions full functioning and improve the investment environment, making energy accessible to consumers in terms of cost, time and quantity. We see an electric market based on competition as the priority of this policy. We want to move the liberalisation process, which began in 2002, to a full competitive structure, which responds to a demand increase. We want it to grow the market, to make investments easier, to complete fast, to make the electricity market predictable. For ten years, major steps have been made towards the creation of competitive markets in the energy sector. Respected lawmakers, Turkey has become the fastest country in OECD countries in the past ten years as a result of high growth rates. The average consumption growth in our country, which is at the highest demand rate for electricity and natural gas after China, is 7-8 per cent. In 2002, our demand for electricity, which was 129 billion kilowatts, increased by twice as much by the end of 2011, to 230 billion kilowatts, and to about 242 billion kilowatts in 2012. According to TEİASY's accounts, our request for 2013 will be around 255 billion kilowatts per hour. In the middle and long term, this trend seems to continue. Our energy demand is expected to increase by 90 per cent in 2023 to reach 218 million tonnes of equivalent oil. The goal is 37 per cent of coal, 23 per cent of natural gas, 26 per cent of oil, 4 per cent of hydroelectric energy, 4 per cent of nuclear energy and 6 per cent renewable resources. We need to invest more than 120-130 billion dollars by 2023. The private sector's participation in this investment move allows public resources to be assessed in services such as education and health, and makes it easier for investment projects to come to life sooner. So we care about increasing the private sector's share in investments and improving the competitive investment environment. In 2002, the private sector's share of power-based power is 32 per cent and today is 56 per cent. In production, the private sector's share has risen to 61 per cent. As of late October 2012, 825 megawatts of the power of the private sector are natural gas, 1.590 megawatts of the plant, renewable energy, 35 megawatts coal, lignite and imported coal plants. In 2012 alone, 208 applications of 9.302 megawatts were licensed. About 18,347 megawatts from projects that have been licensed in the last eight years have been part of the new capacity system. Respected lawmakers, in 2002 the power of the power board was 31,846 megawatts, and at the end of 2012, 56,000 megawatts were brought to an increase of 75 per cent. In 2002, we had 300 power plants, and at the end of 2011, the number rose to 643. By the end of 2012, to 743. Not only are we satisfied with these investments to meet the demand increase, but our efforts to explore, scan, reveal all the potential available. The transfer of coalfields to the private sector under the condition of making power plants appears to have been found in our country with 17,000 megawatts of lignite reserves, the potential of production at a point that has been developed, with MTA-based coal exploration since 2005. 2.76 billion tonnes of lignite reserves in Turkey's Coal Company have begun to tender the private sector with redevans for the purpose of producing electricity. In 2011, 33.4 million tonnes were produced by TİK, 28.2 million tonnes at the end of October 2012. Turkish coal production and consumption increased by 5.1 per cent in 2012. Our goal is to reach 18,000 megawatts in domestic coal over the next 11 years. On the other hand, the process of opening the electricity market to competition will continue, and these studies are being carried on rapidly. The process is accelerated in production privatisations to complete distribution privatisations. You know, in the early days of January 2013, the United Arab Emirates and the Afshin-Elbistan basin, where about 40 per cent of our lignite reserves, were signed, and a contract was reached that amounted to $12 billion for the construction, business and rehabilitation of new plants. Thanks to this agreement, the existing 2,800 megawatts will be an additional 78,000 megawatts. This means that production in Afşin-Elbistan is up to 55-60 billion kilowatts per hour, preventing 8 billion cubic metres of natural gas imports. Respected lawmakers, outside dependency is an important problem, we accept that. But our country is not rich in resources. Our Ministry and our government are providing all kinds of support for the production of all alternatives to the underground and the ground. In recent years, our country's budget for producing all energy potential from oil to linite to stone coal is about 15 times higher than previous times. There's $54 billion in imports in energy, that's true. Energy is considered the main cause of the current deficit. But 68 per cent of imports are used for transportation. The ratio of crude oil and derivatives used in the energy sector is only 2 percent. The fact that natural gas is dependent on oil prices -- for all importing countries -- poses a risk for us, too. Despite being claimed, however, gas prices in our country are below the average of 27 European countries. I think all of this data condemns the AK PARTI governments to import energy sources. It's enough to explain the injustice of showing it like that. Respected lawmakers, the energy sector is going through an important change. We need to constantly revisit the law to adapt to the speed of this change. It's not just for our country. In transitioning to the full competitive system, all countries must constantly revised and review their legislation. In this frame, let's take another look at why this bill came. We want to separate these activities, so we want to separate marketing and distribution activities, in order to prevent monopoly, to strengthen competition. You know, as of 31/12/2012, a total of 21 distribution companies -- public and private -- have completed the separation of production and retail sales activities. However, taxes from segregation procedures had to be avoided at the risk of increasing electricity costs. In all the discussions we've had with the private sector and all the views we've received from the Treasury, there's been a hesitation. Thus, a sentence was added at the end of Article 3 (c) subdivision (3) of Article 3 of Law 4628, in order to eliminate the risk of removing this hesitation and to ease and clarify the sector, in order to rule out taxes. Thus, we do not remove any tax here, because of this division, by making a reference to the VAT Law, we clarify the reservations here. The other issue was: The time scheduled for the transfer from national tariff to regional tariff based on the price equivalence mechanism was January 1, 2013. However, evaluations and calculations have shown that we are not ready for this transition process. Here, in particular, it is clear that the privatisation of the Dicle and Van distribution companies will bring a serious burden to the missing and fugitives in the region, the citizens of the region, especially those who pay their bills. As part of privatisation, it was intended to complete the sales process at the end of 2006, but in some areas, electricity is missing and the excess of its fugitive has negativeised the privatisation process. As of today, the loss of electricity is at 16.8%, including private companies. Tigris is missing in distribution areas like Van, and the rate of fugitives, unfortunately, is affecting Turkey's average. We aim to reduce the missing fugitives brought to privatized distribution companies to 10 percent in 2015. Scans of the missing fugitive from 2003 to date have taken control of about 46.9 million subscribers. Two-and-a-half billion pounds of old money and 2.5 quadrillion pounds of illegal property. Despite these measures, the structure is not yet available for regional tariffs. It can be discussed, politics can also be done on this issue, but we, as our governments, and politically, see fit to continue our struggle to correct and achieve these losses and fugitives for a while longer and then return to regional or fertiary tariff. At the national rate, we all have to suffer the burden of those who are using electricity illegally, but at this point, moving to regional tariffs... is 72 percent -- a sample of you -- to pay for their normal electricity in Haqari, a legitimate citizen, who will pay 65 cents for his kilowatts. Therefore, it is our duty to protect the honest citizen who lives in the area and pays for it. We'll continue to pursue the fugitives by hand. It's clear that this situation is not sustainable. Because if we start implementing it today, the price difference between the regions will be very high. You have to calculate the consequences of selling electricity at this price to someone who's using illegals over the current price. Thus, the second article of the proposal, the extension and the continuation of this time by 2015, and the continuation of this challenge, is that we have brought to the hands of the executive office, which will catch that balance, a time of five years or so. Another issue of the proposal is the continuation of some incentives provided by the end of 2015 to people with autoroductor licenses and production to be operational until 31/12/12/12. It's necessary for supply security, because a lot of investments in the industry that have been licensed haven't gone into business yet. So I would like to thank both the Plan Budget Commission and the Energy Commission for their support in terms of renewable energy sources. Finally, in the event of cuts or reductions in natural gas power plants established under Law 3096, we extend the duration of the OTV exception, which is in effect on secondary fuel use in these plants until 2019. This is not a new tax exception. The goal is to keep the schedule from rising. In addition, the application concession agreements for natural gas plants established by the dot-business-in-group model have not yet ended. Therefore, the exception is intended to continue until the end of the contract. And as Mr. Yellow said, this bill -- especially with my signature as President of the Energy Commission -- was actually in our Commission on the Electric Market Law, why it came to the Plan Budget Commission in the urgency of these four articles, and it was a criticism of the sincerity of this issue. I've explained the reasons for that in the Plan-Band, but I think it's appropriate for you to tell our esteemed deputies here. This Electric Market Law bill came to us. We as the Commission, together with our friends from the Republican People's Party, the People's Movement Party and the AK PARTI Party and our fellow members from the Peace and Democracy Party, have been working with the ministry for a year and a half, working on this bill and hoarding our notes. During the Plan and Budget talks, however, in order to move very quickly to the end of the period of 31/12, as well as to the agreement of all our group presidents and the absence of this law, we wanted to separate these 4 articles by taking the majority of our Commission members' opinions and getting their support, to renegotiate them into an offer and remove the obstacles in front of the execution and in front of the market as soon as possible. We could have brought all of it, but in our working methods and fundamentals -- in the name of democracy amongst us -- we've done this kind of work to ensure their contribution and to extend our working time a little bit longer, so that we don't limit their work to the law, and with all their differences, to create this wealth and to solve our little problems -- and not to tire you out. I'd like to thank our fellow commissioners for their support during the work here. As we bring you the entire bill of law in the coming years, we will bring it to you with the ability to respect the general energy policies of all our parties, in a devoid of a lot of technical issues to discuss as we carry it. I, again, thank both our friends and my fellow members of the Plan Budget Commission for their support for this bill. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you for the benefit of the bill, for the sake of the industry.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0043par0124	Thank you, Mr. Nuts. Talks on the bill have been completed on behalf of groups. Now, on behalf of him, Mr. Harun Karaca, the Istanbul MP. Mr. Karaca, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0044par0129	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the entire bill of law on the amendment to the Power Market Law and the Special Expension Tax Act. I salute your high council. Energy is the ability to do business. To be in the space age, a country has to be rich in energy and not dependent on outer space to be among the developed countries in the first place. In this regard, energy is one of the most important priorities, both economic and political. Given their preferences to produce or buy, it is necessary to choose the cheapest and most efficient, to take this measure as a criteria in applications, regulations. It's a situation that pleases all of us and always desires that the outcome of what is done in energy and what is to be done at a less cost and less time. In an environment where global warming poses a serious threat to humanity's present and future, where natural resources are rapidly exhausted, while the world understands the value of energy better, we need to look for an answer to the question of how to improve our energy policies, and we need to make a maximum effort in that direction. The AK PARTY governments are engaged in the aim and effort to continue their energy policies with that belief, and have struggled to develop systematic solutions rather than individual solutions. In other words, they're trying to get the mechanisms to turn the words that are accepted by everyone into action. To this end, new regulations are required in the existing Energy Market Law and in accordance with it. Turkey's energy sector has made significant progress in the last decade, when EC PARTY governments have served. Ten years ago, the power of our country's power-building power was 130 billion kilowatts, while in ten years it rose 77% to 230 billion kilowatts. In the same way, our power power-building power has increased from 31,846 megawatt levels to 56,760 megawatts. For this, 50 billion dollars have been invested in electricity production, distribution and transmission in ten years. The 61 per cent of this investment was made by private sector companies, 39 per cent by public institutions. The rise in local and renewable energy sources is remarkable in this development of electrical energy power. In ten years, electricity production of plants based on our renewable energy sources, such as water and wind, has increased by 70 per cent and its power has increased by 65 per cent to 22,000 megawatts. In ten years, I would like to remind you of several examples of the actions of our government's AK PARTI governments: I mean, electricity production of Turkey from 130 billion kilowatts to 239 billion kilowatts of power from 130 billion kilowatts to 34.6 billion kilowatts, power of power from the Turkish power plant board from 31.846/ to 56.760 percent of hydropower plant board power from 12.241. With Turkey's energy demand increasing, the world's energy demand is constantly increasing, and energy investments in our country and global level continue to increase every year to meet this demand. According to International Energy Agency data, $37.4 trillion will be invested in the energy sector from 2012 to 2035 on a global scale. The total need for investment in the country's energy sector by 2023 is estimated to exceed $120-130 billion. In this framework, necessary efforts are being carried out to ensure that the investments needed should be made by the private sector as much as possible. With the work done, the private sector's share of electricity board power rose to 32% in 2002, up to 56 per cent today, as well as 61 per cent in electricity production. Turkey is the country in which energy demand growth has been the fastest among the OECD countries over the past decade. In the same way, our country has been the second largest economy in the world to have increased demand since 2002, after China, in electricity and natural gas. The most important issue in the electricity sector for supply security and the future of the system is the fact of production investments. About 18,347 megawatts from projects that have been licensed in the last eight years have been included in the new capacity system. About half of the electricity production capacity that was activated in 2003 -- and I want to stress that in particular -- in recent years, one third of that capacity is from natural gas, and the rest is due to wind, hydraulics, and coal. As of late October 2012, temporary admissions of 159 new or unit additions to the private sector's 2.450 megawatt board power have been granted to the company. The 1.590 megawatts of these plants are composed of renewable energy sources, 35 megawatts of coal and lignite, imported coal and remaining 825 megawatts of natural gas fueled resources. Dear President, valuable lawmakers, our energy policy has been given priority and priority in promoting energy efficiency, resource diversity, new and renewable resources, RD studies and domestic technologies. It is important that our country's renewable energy potentials are activated using integrated technologies and rational methods with elements of domesticity and innovation, thus transforming that potential into an opportunity. The academic studies on Turkey's hydroelectric potential indicate that our technical potential is 219 billion kilowatts/years and our economic potential is around 130 billion kilowatts/years. According to Turkish Wind Energy Potential Atlas data, the potential of our country's wind energy has been estimated to be around 48,000 megawatts. The sun, which gives energy to our world and other planets and has what can be called infinite power, is an energy source that can be used from agriculture to industry and at every point in everyday life, using different methods. In our country, solar energy, hot water production and passive warming practices have become commercially widespread, but electricity production facilities based on this scarce resource are not yet at the desired level, as the initial investment cost is high. An important part of the RD projects we've started to promote biogas and electricity-producing facilities from plant wastes with facilities capable of producing electricity, heat and liquefied fuel has been completed. In 2023, the primary energy supply is estimated to reach 218 million tonnes, equivalent oil and electricity power supply 500 billion kilowatts. We aim to use all of its hydroelectric potential by 2023, to reach 20,000 megawatts in wind power plants, 3,000 megawatts in solar power, 600 megawatts in geothermal plants. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the implementation of the price equivalence mechanism, which was established to protect consumers from the cost differences between distribution zones during the transition period, which was known to be part of Power Market Law 4628, was concluded on 31/12/12/12. The secondary fuel purchases used by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources were exempted from special consumption tax until 31/12/2012/12, in order to bring down electricity energy tariffs, as part of the Law on Power Production, Messages, Distribution and Trade of Institutions outside Turkey 3096. With this offer, the dissolution process of electricity distribution companies on production and retail sales has been completed, and since a significant amount of tax, image, tuition costs have emerged as a result of this sorting process, no taxes from distribution companies are required to ensure that electricity costs do not increase and do not reflect to consumers. In this arrangement, we will allow our citizens to use cheaper energy. A period of time with the price equivalence mechanism and the continuation of national tariffs and the extension of incentives to the production facilities that ensure our high demand for increased demand for electricity energy and to ensure our supply safety. Natural gas plants, established by the 31/12/2012/2012, will end in 2019, in the first joke of Article 5 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4760. With the exception of the special consumption tax in the secondary fuel purchases of natural gas plants established by the do-and-do model, by the end of 2019, the immunity agreement will continue for years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our law to our country, to our nation, and to all our citizens who live in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0045par0155	Thank you, Mr. Karaca. Now, on behalf of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner Yildiz... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0046par0159	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the matter of Articles 4628 of the Power Market Act and again, on behalf of our government on the bill concerning the ETV. I respectfully salute your committee. As you know, along with a bill of law, right now, there was a 41-42-point bill passed to the Energy Commission to discuss these matters, but it's about the parts that we've been talking about and the duration, along with the bill offered by our President Mujahit Bey and his friends at the Plan Budget Commission, we now have the opportunity to discuss these issues faster. Hopefully, as long as you've passed the Commission, we'll be able to bring that bill of law to your approvals again, and we'll be talking about the sector here. Dear friends, so far, the group's talks and talks on behalf of the proposal have contributed well to each other. Each of these was advice for further regulation and maturity of the energy sector. I'd like to say that we've taken every one of these into consideration on behalf of our Ministry. Of course, Turkey is growing and Turkey is growing faster than the average growth rate in the world. The energy sector has to grow faster than the economy's growth rate, so we can increase the diversification of supply. Of course, Turkey is changing as it grows, and managing the growth during that change actually requires more caution. In the energy sector, we've gone from about 128 billion kilowatts to 242 billion kilowatts, and by increasing the private sector's share, both in production and distribution. Of course, they had a transitional contract and applications. By the end of 2012, we've been thinking about these things in advance, and that's our calendar, and that's why we're left with the privatisation of electricity distributions. So, whether it's the separation of retail activities or the dissolution of their accounting activities, of course, the issue has been extended, each of which has its own reasons. Our addiction to the outside and issues related to supply security are always the issues on our table, dear friends. We don't have any problems with supply security right now, which is not the case in both the electric markets and the gas markets. But, as I said, the growth rate of Eurasia, both the European Union member states, and the geography that we were in last year, is about half a percent, minus, so it's shrinking. There are markets shrinking around 15 percent of natural gas, countries. But we were faced with the growth of production facilities around 8.1 per cent. This is a happy situation for Turkey, for our country. Of course, the most important reason for our dependence on the outside will be that we, friends, will reduce our dependence on renewable energy sources, such as water, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, and local resources, as much as we can do our resources, like coal, as well as our energy policies and strategies. But I'd like to get your attention now. From time to time, we see objections about the construction of water resources. I see that, with very few of them being right, you have a developmental objection in general, not an energy source, but a developmental objection, which I'm sorry to see. It's the same with wind sources. Today, Turkey has four large bird migration routes. We don't think it's right to build wind plants around here, of course, but other than that, it's not the right reason to stop wind plants from being built just because they're related to bird migration. Whatever the amount, small or large, our domestic resources and renewable energy resources are not being made, it will certainly increase our orders for the road, the water, not the bridge, but the import resources. In order to get every 1 kilowatt hour, we need to make it clear which energy source we're taking advantage of. I say from time to time, energy sources have different abilities and opportunities and threats to each other. Turkey has 1,800 hours of resources per year in 8,640 hours, like the sun; 2,400 hours of resources, like the wind; 3,500-4. There are 1,000 hours of resources, like water sources, 6,500-7. There are resources that will work for 1,000 hours, like coal; there are resources that will work for 8,000 hours, like natural gas, like nuclear. So each of their jobs is different, so if you set up a 100 megawatt facility, all of these energy sources that I've been counting on are different jobs that have come back to you. We want to put our local coal, some of our imported coal, natural gas sources, and nuclear resources at the bottom of our base loads. We call them some burdens. We've been in Abu Dhabi yesterday, where we've been talking about renewable energy sources, and we've been talking about sustainable energy sources, and we've been counted among the countries that are using renewable energy resources at the most, because we're around 8 percent, around 10 percent, or even over a decade, trying to get them up to 15 percent, but Turkey is now about 25 percent of all the electricity that we've produced from our water sources and 2.200 megawatts, and it's made with wind sources that we've just started with the new solar resources that we've started with. Some of our friends are giving us good advice, give us a little more money to support the nuclear without you and support the sun. Actually, it's nothing wrong, that's what we did. We've guaranteed for ten years that every sun produced around $13 is not sold on the free market. What did we guarantee? We guaranteed the sun. Our non-nuclear purchase price is $12.35, folks. So the money we're giving the sun is greater than the money we're paying for nuclear. That's why we have to let our friends know that these good-willed advices are actually being carried out. Of course, our BDP friend mentioned that we would find it very, very wrong to make a division of east, west, north, south, south, whatever you call it, whether it's divisive, dialectical, or intellectual, or ideologies. We need to know that whether any of our citizens are produced in the east, whether they are HeES, Ataturk, Keban, Karakaya, whatever dam they are, the electricity is not an acquish to a region, and that our citizens will not have the authority to pay their electricity bills. It's not right to go into numbers here. The electricity produced from those dams is 8 per cent of the electricity used in Turkey, 10 per cent of the bills are higher, but not paid. So, instead of talking about the bone, the numbers, we care about the joy of the work, and I want to say that the electricity produced in the east, the electricity produced in the west, the electricity produced in the west, the power produced in the north, wherever it is in the middle of the interconnected system. Of course, with the division of distribution companies, there was talk of a tax loss. Friends, there's no loss of tax, no loss of tax. In fact, institutions don't get tax due to a division. Well, if that's the case, why are we putting this stuff back in? So we're adverting a know-it-all? Some of the inspectors, some of the accountants, have considered it appropriate to reminisce about the future in order to avoid the birth of a possible regular. It's not like there's a bonus tax due to the division of a company, but we've decided to place this clause here for another reason, so that we don't leave an open door. There's an important issue here that's been extended, and no one's ready politically at the moment, and we're technically considering the missing fugitive rates. If we don't extend this clause, which is what we call national tariffs, if we don't extend the system by the end of 2015, we're moving to regional timetables. It's like this: we go to a dissolution at the price of electricity used in Hakkari, or in the 21 distribution area. The electricity used in the Izmit Dilova is industrially weighted and is as low as the missing fugitives. Let's say that the owner of the dwelling there is using 20 or 22 cents for electricity prices that will go up for 45 or 50 cents due to the fugitives in Urbana or the missing fugitives in that area. That's not true right now.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0047par0173	What is the fault of the marine industrialist?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0046par0174	We, friends, are at a lower rate of electricity distribution services in the Tigris and Van area than the missing fugitives of countries in the European Union. Our numbers now are 9.4 per cent when we make exceptions to these two areas, while there are 10 per cent missing fugitives in European Union member states. So we're going in the right direction, we're going in the right direction, but we have to find a solution to our provinces in these two regions. I would like to take this opportunity to address our citizens again: friends, the state has rights, not only that, but the right to the subject. Every single one of us has a right to one of those electric bills, fellas. We have an important road map in these three years, so that our citizens who paid on time can't be wronged, I'd like to explain it from here. As privatized as these companies are, they're putting their arms under the stone, not their hands, on some of these missing illegal commitments. So if he can't get the amount that's been promised, if he can't get the target number, then surely the company -- as in now privatized companies -- pays that number, gives that number; we take it publicly. So in these three years, no doubt, how we have reduced this in other regions, and certainly we will have reduced that number in those areas, and hopefully we will have seen 10 percent of the missing fugitives in that region drop faster than the levels we're not happy with, and as of the end of 2015, we will all be able to announce that from here, hopefully, as a country that has captured the missing number of countries in the European Union. The data we have and the road map we've come up with confirms it, it supports it. The transactions are the right procedures, but we'll be able to do that in those areas. So at the end of 2015, this issue that we've extended to the power of the Council of Ministers will be reconsidered, and if we need to get out of the national tariff, we'll get out of the national schedule because the missing fugitives will be at reasonable rates we want. Of course, in an environment where the loss of transmission, which is in this area, is about 2,000 kilometers of electricity, is going to the other side of Turkey, there are over a million kilometers of transmission and distribution lines, my friends. So we have to say that the loss of transmission and distribution lines is higher than some European Union member states, but I'm not saying escapes -- we need to know that the losses are cost-effective in our bills. It's an element of cost, people, so we need to think of energy lost in our bills for different reasons, for different reasons, because it's coming from the transmission line there, and I'm saying that for casualties, it's a cost factor. Dear friends, another issue -- we said there were four basics here -- is about secondary fuels after national tariffs. So in our 365 days, in total, 22 days in the last year, we've seen the highest numbers in the last winter, especially in the last sixty-two years, the coldest days -- this winter is going at lower levels, but we've been in daily use around 183 million cubic metres. Dear friends, almost, that means that in five days, six days, within a week, you're going to consume 1 billion cubic meters of gas. We allow our citizens to use secondary fuels at do-and-work, do-work-regulation plants, EUAS/ or TETAŞ-accession plants, so that there will not be any problems in the use of this issue, especially in the housing areas. That's 365 days and 22 days. Some of our friends had advice, and we were told to take more natural gas. Natural gas is less harmful, and more harmful, my friends. In what way am I saying this? Why do we have to pay for the gas we didn't buy in advance? Yeah, we made all our plans, all our programs, so we wouldn't have to pay in advance. The sum of what we're going to pay for with the OTV exception here is more appropriate than the current account transactions we're doing with either the al or the pay. And as of 31/12/2012, the natural gas we received from the Russian Federation, they are friends with no pen related to either the al or the pay. We've ended it, and we've managed to bring the amount of 3.6 billion cubic metres of natural gas that we didn't use by paying 75 percent of it -- in previous dates -- to an environment where we've now paid 25 percent of it. That's 1.3 billion dollars plus money in the vault of BOTASH, which is two or two and a half months after the end of March. Now, once again, I'd like to point out that the meaning of al or pay is not natural gas that we pay for when we don't use it and we never use it, friends. In countries such as Iran, Azerbaijan, Russia, it is a process of collecting money in advance -- I mean, in fact, cash flows -- but in advance -- in countries like Iran, Azerbaijan, Russia. I pledge here, in front of the public and in front of our valued lawmakers: there will not be a cubic meter of natural gas left in any country, just as the Russian Federation does not. By the end of next year -- by the end of the year -- the amount related to Azerbaijan and Iran, or the amount of payment, hopefully, will be reset. So I'd like to say again on this occasion that we're going back to the right goal with the right road maps. Friends, of course you're all watching our efforts to increase our domestic resources or to make this natural gas or raw oil that we import into domestic resources. There's a budget of about $1.3 billion that we're currently spending searching for raw oil and natural gas. This is a budget that we raised to 13.5 times ten years ago. There are wells we can find, wells we can't find. With all its transparency, if there's oil, we'll find it, but if there's oil, we won't find it. But we can't just sit around and cry about it. We must be supplying energy supplies to support Turkey's growth. I believe that we will surely be rewarded for the consequences of the raw oil and natural gas that we're trying to make local resources. All of our friends are working with that hope, and we're entering a phase in a year, where we're going to run our activities on seismic searches with more equipped ships. Hopefully, we'll see about that in 2013. I, with all these thoughts and feelings, thank you to all my friends who have contributed. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0048par0184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of him, Mr. Denizli MP, Mr. Haluk Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ayhan, come in. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0049par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I have been promised my opinion on the entire Law Proposal 393, on behalf of myself. I hereby salute the grand jury. This proposal basically envisions a change in two laws: one in the Electric Market Law -- there's already a bill in the Industrial Commission, and one in the bill -- there's a proposal in it -- a change in the Special Consumption Tax Act. The first is because the incompetent AKP government has failed to manage the economy and energy policies. You don't get it in time, it's sagging. That's not even a knock-off, when you're looking at an offer to get out of a fake bill. [[What's that sound like from the AK PARTY?]] You learn, you listen, you learn.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0050par0195	Don't fake it and don't date it.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0049par0196	You know what? You bring in the flash-forward bill, you bring in the bid, you realize you're not going to make it, you're not going to get it, you're going to get it in a hurry, you're going to get it out. First, you separate him from the fake bill because he won't make it, which is a date, and you think we'll see him at the Industrial Commission. Why am I saying this? We know that. If you say that, it's obvious you don't know. Where does the proposal find itself when there's no way to negotiate with the Industrial Commission? The Plan and Budget Commission. The location is the Plan and Budget Commission. God bless whoever transferred it. Not at all, the AKP will be able to learn as a government on this occasion. Anyway, the application clause is 1/1/2013 when you look at it. It's in the square why he's in such a hurry. Well, can't the Ministry predict that? No. If so, you'll do it on time, he'll be on time. How does the Commissioner know the urgency of this? The president doesn't really know, but the government demands it. Come on, let's face it. An offer is being made from the fake bill, but the government and the Commission do not know that this will not send the Parliamentary Presidency to the Industrial Commission. The opposition has stated their motives. This offer, in fact, is in the fake bill. In addition, there's a government bill that's been dictated into the offer. And this Minister really can't do his job. Some ministers bring in the bill in the evening, immediately starting to negotiate. How do they do it? You, Minister, love Erbil. When you go to Erbil, you fall into Kayseri by mistake, and let my brothers of Azerbaijan forgive me. With this bill, why are you making my marine industrialist pay for the missing fugitive again? What right do you have? Look, the talks here, the talks that have been out there for years, what does that reveal? We use the missing fugitive, and the AKP can't do anything to us. Maybe you'll get these at the negotiating table tomorrow, and you're talking here. We're looking at common ground. You're extending the application of the price equivalence mechanism. It's at the end of 2012, it's over. What's the excuse for dragging it out? The transitional applications for the sector have not been completed; they have not been completed. No hard words. What were you thinking? You've been in power for ten years. And you're also saying that the price equivalence mechanism and the demand for high levels of electricity are being met. So what are the people going to say? And to ensure supply security, let the incentive for production facilities be extended. I thought you said there was no problem with supply security. You're putting this in for supply security. Now, let's get to the second thing. On the grounds, you're exempting the private sector from private consumption tax in order to reduce costs to those who change production by order of the Ministry of Energy. The proposal text was first referred to as "Mussüssna" That's what it says. Except for what you used to do. What's good about it? This bill, this offer, whatever it is, it's an exceptional job. If you had, you wouldn't have needed that in your day. Also, Mr. President, would the Department of Energy be instructed by the private sector in the state of law? Is that a thing? I thought democracy was working well, expanding as much as it could. That's what the motive says. For God's sake, you think every violence you do is law. Is there no problem with the VAT of interest, according to all of us? What's more... do the companies you give shoulder to get goods out of privatisation? There's a rumor coming out: production, distribution, delivery companies. Look, let me tell you something: this bill didn't come to us as a commission, we didn't see it. Actually, we have the original commission, and there's a commission on it. These proposals were so urgent -- you've already brought some of them as a government bill in the 8th month -- why didn't you deal with them, why didn't you solve this problem? The minister is not following the work, and the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission has no time to correct the government. There's no time to clean up after the government. Although, he has to clean up after the government because it's so messy, there's no other way. There's no telling what he'll bring or what he'll bring. I don't know if you told the Commissioners there; I don't know if the Commissioner knew what was going on when he made the offer, or how much he had to pay. What you've already done is increase, persecution, torture. Is there a one-year increase in natural gas by close to 50 percent? Citizen, I saw it on TV yesterday, it's all 300, it's 200, it's 500, I'll turn it off. Find a cure for this or every time the price is announced, don't go on TVs and talk about it in length before it goes up, before it goes down. If the board is responsible and the law is clear, let them speak to the authorities. I thought you were giving it to the government, the government was doing this kind of work, this kind of talk? What are you doing when it comes to your work? You're bouncing. TOKI builds a dwelling, but you use it to promote elections. Isn't that right? It's not the government's job. You're leaving, you're talking to the Imralı, he's the government's business, the government's man. When it comes to it, when it comes to it. It's the law, it's not, it's not important to you. Every ineptness comes here as an adjustment to the law. Is there no one among you who does the right thing, for God's sake? During your administration, energy in public investments has been reduced. You're handing it over to the private sector. In the last presentation, after you, the private sector spoke, saying that the share of the government should be reduced to 30 per cent in this sector, to 20. Mr. President is also looking for anyone behind the curtain. The people behind the curtain are already there, talking in front of you, he doesn't need to hide. You're talking about the free market, you're talking about the cost-based price mechanism. What are you doing with the national tariff app? You're forcing citizens to pay unfair costs to the corrupt functioning of the market mechanism, the profit motive, you're condemning them. Why do you keep missing contraband costs from the bill, which is written here? I thought you were transparent. You write some of it down, and as you explained, it may not be part of it. There's more to be said. And will this BOTAS pay for the VATbooks from imports?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0051par0205	He'll pay.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0049par0206	Because he made the budget according to him, the Treasury Department. But he hasn't paid yet. He's raised 40 percent to pay, Mr. Unakitan, which has increased 20 percent, but hopefully this time it'll hold. I salute the grand jury. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0052par0210	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Congressmans, we're going to do a question-and-answer on the general for 20 minutes. I'll make a promise to my friends who are in the system in order. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0053par0214	Mr. President, thank you. I've got a statement for our Minister, who's got a job installing a telemetry device in these underground wells. That's the last of it until the 25th of January. Well, now, with this law, there's going to be an additional clause, a motion. Is there no way we can extend this? That's a lot of victims for people who farm and farm. I'd like to make a request to the Minister for this extension. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0054par0218	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0055par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Studies on the underground power lines of the districts of Salihli and Selden are constantly delayed. That's why municipalities are victims of infrastructure work. While there are Privatisation Administration units, would you be interested in this matter as a government? Is it true that frequent power outages in Salihli are caused by the lack of transformers? Do you plan to strengthen inadequate transformers and build new transformers, do you have any work or projects in that direction? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0056par0224	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0057par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Taner went from here to Erbil, in northern Iraq, and his plane came to Kayseri. I'd like to know: Is there something in America that tells us that Turkey should support Barzani in a war between Barzani and Maliki and that North Iraq would have a right to Turkey's oils? This plane, as far as I can tell, wasn't brought down to northern Iraq by the Americans. In fact, normally, in the state legislatures, a government representative goes to his capital when his minister goes to another state. Why was this mistake committed? Second: TETAS has done 14.8 per cent of electricity prices in the last year, and this -- more or less -- has been left above TETACH. But when this is supposed to go from distributor companies to consumers, it's all over the distribution companies, and there's a lot of money to be made here.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0058par0230	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0059par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'm the most greenhouse-producing MP in our country since Antalya. Our greenhouses produce agricultural products in their greenhouses, but they pay their electricity by trade. Do you plan to charge the electricity our greenhouses use on the agricultural tariff? On the trip to Şanlıurfa, Mr. Prime Minister, they have declared illegal use of electricity. Are you going to continue to buy electricity from our citizens who are not using illegal electricity, or do you intend to cut the electricity used by people who use illegal electricity to save people who use illegal electricity from the ban? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0060par0236	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0061par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, isn't it a contradiction that we have a series of problems with electricity distribution privatisations in our country, and you quickly bring production facilities to privatisation? Is there still any intervention from your Ministry to stop privatisation of the Seyitömer thermal plant? My second question is: Do you believe that the number of missing fugitives due to 17 per cent will be reduced to 10 per cent in 2015? What measures have you taken? Given what happened in the past, do you find this goal realistic? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0062par0242	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0063par0244	Mr. Secretary, in 2010 inflation took place at about 6.4 per cent, while you increased electricity cutting, binding prices by 68 per cent. Is there any particular reason why electricity cuts, binding costs are increased by more than 10 times inflation? Also: In 2010, 2011 and 2012, how many subscribers received a total cut, a binding price? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0064par0247	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0065par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the nature of the effort to bring natural gas back to the story of this snake? A number of different information is being provided, especially in planning for the counties. Can we get details on the project about the gas service to the counties? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0066par0251	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0067par0253	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, beyond oil and natural gas, investment in clean energy becomes important. What is the rate of your goal of making 30 per cent of energy resources renewable by the end of 2012? Did the disaster of Fukushima in Japan bring a change in your plan to build 2030 nuclear reactors? In rock gas, China, the United States, Argentina, Mexico, South Africa and Australia seem to have the advantage. What are Turkey's moves on this matter? Russia and Germany have already begun the North Stream Project, agreeing on the gas to be transported to Germany via the Baltic Sea. When this project is terminated, it will be transferred to Germany without ties to transit countries such as Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. The European Union, on the other hand, has increased the import of liquid gas with ships. In contrast, what are the moves to increase support for the gas pipelines that form the Southern Corridor? What is the final phase in the TANAP Project? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0068par0259	Thank you, Mr. Irbet. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0069par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister if there are any studies on the transfer of Turkish gas to Turkey? Second: How much oil has been transported in the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline for the past five years? What's the profit situation? In our country, solar panels are very expensive, so they are not available to public use. Does your Ministry have a study on lowering and supporting the prices of solar panels to open public use? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0070par0266	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0071par0268	Mr. Secretary, the industrialist complains about the electricity in Malatya, the farmer complains, the consumer complains. In the villages, the slightest wind, the electricity goes out, the voltage goes down, the freezers, televisions, washing machines that the villagers borrow, are on fire. Again, from these practices in the villages, especially the manufacturers suffer a lot, and when their smallest debts are not paid, an abnormal interest is imposed. In the past few days, a headman called, and my debt of 1,500 lira increased to $7,500 in one year. He says, "He is rebellious; he is rebellious, and he has no service at all." Again, I just got a call from the village of Doğanşehir Kadili. The hours are being changed freely. It's tried and put a great burden on the peasant. Unfortunately, Malatya has been exhausted from electricity ever since it was privatized. Do you plan to invest in Malatya, the power lines? The company that bought the privatisation is also complaining that no investments have been made. Do you intend to support Malatya in this regard? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0072par0273	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0073par0275	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to address a matter on the agenda of the House. Today -- January 16, 1980 -- is the anniversary of the execution of Nacdet Koçak, leader of the Türks of Kerkuk, Abdullah Abdurrahman, Reza Demirci and Fair Honour by Saddam in Iraq. We hereby remember them with mercy, and I would like to share these massacres with the General Assembly on this occasion, since the massacres of July 14, 1959, and since this day, even though Saddam's dictator has been eliminated, unfortunately, we have been investigating violence, threats and blackmail against the Turkmen in Kerkok. Also, Mr. Secretary, the people who called us on the agenda of Congress the other day, the people who called us from Viranşehir's villages, especially in the village of Viranşehir, there has been no electricity since six days. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they've stated that the power's been cut off because of the transformer. So, I don't know, problem solved or not? But I wanted to share this with you again, on this occasion.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0074par0280	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0075par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we're not going to let you go with this Cerattepe. The tender at Artvin Ceratttepe was conditioned to allow the firm to operate 10,000 tons of metal copper in the tender. I asked you a question in writing, and I said, "How many facilities do you have in Turkey, which firm does it belong to?" I said, "I'm going to make sure which firm gets it as a result of the contract." The company A took the contract, not the firm I believe, but the company B. Now, what facility do you think this field company B will operate at in Turkey? Again, according to us, it will be done in Samsun. Because I can prove to you at least six partnerships that both companies have been partners before. Do you have any concerns as to whether or not these two firms are partners? In this tender, where will this company operate, the mine that was purchased here? It is virtually impossible to operate anywhere other than Samsun. I'm afraid the concerns I've raised from the beginning have come true. I'm looking forward to hearing what you have to say, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0076par0286	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have them come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0077par0288	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I will try to answer these questions in the remaining nine minutes. Of course, there was a question asked by our esteemed congressman about the underground wells. In fact, it's a matter of the DSI. It's about agricultural irrigation, and the clocks in the irrigation units are being installed by our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. You know, in Turkey, water is sold at a price of electricity. That's why he felt the need to make an arrangement with the irrigation troops, Mr. Secretary, and he's already published it. Of course, we should talk to him about it in detail. Mr. Akçay, of course there are UKOMEs in every province. The infrastructure studies of municipalities, TELECOM studies, energy-related studies, communications studies may not coincide at the same time, and that, in fact, prevents, in a way, resources from being used more accurately. I find this criticism appropriate, but each company's investment plans are being carried out separately. Let's say we've set aside an investment of 10 units in Salihli, Manisa, or Manisa, in that area you call it, where the municipality works and the electricity investments don't always hold up. So, I think it would be helpful to offer them locally from the previous year. Now, I've told my friends, is there a shortage of winter conditions in Salihli, so how long did it last? They'll bring them to me right now, and maybe by the time they do, my friends will bring them to me. Mr. Young asked if the United States had any advice on the landing of the plane about my going to Erbil. He didn't have any tips. And they didn't tell us if we were gonna take a side in this. So I can say that you didn't have any advice about it. Mr. Erdogan, we closed the scissors between the greenhouses' agricultural tariff and the trade tariff. There's a little bit left, but there are parts of greenhousery that are heated by its own resources, that are heated by electricity and considered commercial activity, although there are sources such as geothermal. There was a little bit of a difference, actually, right now, more than a year ago. So, we believe that, in time, it will be closed even further, but it is viewed as a trade activity, where electricity is heating activity.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0078par0294	It's not heat, Minister, it's watering, too.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0077par0295	Mr. Light asked if the electricity distribution services are privatised, while the production companies are privatised. Yes, it does. The privatisation of electricity distribution services is a goal for the privatisation of the market's important actors' distribution, but for production facilities, including Seyitömer, in the coming process, we will go to Sivas Gangal, and then to our other plants. Inside these plants are plants that have brought their age up to 35. At the same time, rehabilitation studies and renovations will continue because Turkey's growth rate is at a very impressive rate. Mr. Turkkan, are the targets realistic? So this is about the missing fugitives, Mr. Light asked. Guys, I'm just saying that we have the courage to calculate these goals, and in other cities, and in other areas, to get the numbers that we've achieved, especially in 17 or 18 areas. I'm saying it's exclusive to the Tigris and Van area, and I have to tell you that we're going to have some special work to do there. Is there anything other than the TUFE (TUFE) that has to do with these cutting prices, or has there been a number given? (The price of cutting in low tension has increased to 15.3 euros in 2011, to 17.7 euros in 2012. In the OG, it increased from 77.5 TL to 82.3. There is no way to increase anything except the numbers explained by the TÜİK (TİK) about this, and there is no such thing. In our program, natural gas has also begun to work on projecting. We have a general study of the districts, my friends. So let's say, let's say, like Pain, even though BOTASH took a transmission line there in our regions like Iğdır, and we've gone through a private sector tender three times, it hasn't shown any interest in the private sector. So we're going to take some of the Council of Ministers' agendas with some of the districts, maybe with the population criteria, maybe with the special circumstances there, and we're trying to make sure that the gas is brought there, including those counties. Hopefully we've got the infrastructure for this. About renewable energy sources, Mr. Irbeç, is 30 percent a realistic goal until 2023? We are now in the 25 percentiles, friends, or 25 percent at the end of 2012. Since the rain regimes here are regular, there are many factors. We're waiting for 11,000 megawatt licenses on the wind to be realized, and it's got 2,000-odd megawatts. We're starting sun-related investments. We find this goal realistic. After Fukushima, there was no interaction with our determination to build nuclear power plants, but we are considering this accident, and we are reviewing 88 subtitles in 11 basic topics, related to security systems, aimed at increasing security. Maybe it'll cost us some time, maybe it'll take us a little bit more time, but we'll end up building a more reliable nuclear power plant. There have been reports of rock gas related to the Northern Stream. There are companies of origin in the United States that work on rock gas in our country. It's a branch that's just begun, but I'd like to rephrase the fact that we're open to proposals about whichever one the investor wants to buy. It's about North Stream, Germany has brought natural gas from Russia, Finland through Russia, and there are projects that we've developed, and so on. Our Minister of Right said: "Will natural gas come from Turkmenistan?" We offered our proposals for natural gas coming and told them that we would take 5.5 billion cubic metres of gas from there. Turkmenistan delivers its natural gas on its own border, and some countries deliver it on the border of the country it sells its natural gas. So we continue our talks with Turkmenistan. Yesterday, in Abu Dhabi, my brother, the Turkish Minister, and I spoke to him again. The Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Ham Oil Pipeline was said to be profitable? Friends of interest, thank you, on January 3, 2013, there was an important clause that you passed here with international agreement, which increased Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Ham Oil Pipeline's profitability for Turkey. Hopefully, we'll all share the numbers with the public. We're bringing a better deal than the previous agreement to the public, thank God. There's a trend in the world about solar panels. As technology develops, we create an environment where prices are down and Turkey will benefit from it. In solar panels, if you invest in Turkey and use what you've made from your investment, we say with numbers that they're going to benefit a lot more there. Mr. Agababa Malatya said we have burning citizens who have refrigerators related to natural gas and electricity distribution. Guys, I'm clearly telling you that if that refrigerator is burned because of the fault of that distribution company, that power company, that refrigerator has to compensate for the price of the refrigerator, or the price of that bike wrap, that distribution company. This may not be very well-known, but let our citizen do his application, and that distribution company-- I did it 14 years ago at the distribution company, and we wrapped up their engines, and we turned them back on if it came from that distribution company. Mr. President asked me a question about Viranşehir. Dear friends, I must say that there are cuts in the East, as there are cuts in winter conditions, but there are also interruptions due to illegal use. Unfortunately, we came across this: my electricity was cut off two hours ago, so come and do my electricity. We say to the malfunctioning teams: "Go, do that electricity. We get a call from there, sir, you sent us here, but now this place is on the run." He says, "We freeze." I mean, how could a guy be using illegals and still want the malfunctioning crews there? So we don't have the stomach for it, guys, and I can safely say, no reason for illegal use would make that illegal use reasonable. So if there's been power out since six days, and there's been a leak, we're not gonna give it away for a hundred or six days, guys. But if that's what you mean or not, I'm going to have him investigated in that particular village. Mr. Bayraktutan, at the meeting we made earlier about Cerattepe, I believe you said that your wife or you said that I made a statement from Noter, that the company A would take it. B took him. Of course, I expected you to explain that, and it's not right for me to explain because it was you who made the bet. I look at this as a public opinion: firms that hold up the terms of this tender enter, and again, in the tender, there's a procedure for it, according to condition, if those who carry it out take it and give it a fair price. Now, that company was partnered with the other company, company A, company C, as follows. Friends, I don't know about that. I have to give it to the company that fulfills its official commitments and finds the right price. Let me make it clear here that it's just...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0079par0311	Madam Secretary, I've given you two more minutes, so wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0077par0312	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit02spe0079par0313	Dear lawmakers, negotiations on the entire bill have been completed. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... It is agreed that the bill be passed on to its articles. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0079par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 393. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Before the 1st article, the motion for the amendment of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends regarding the new clause of the Law on Underworld Waters 167 has not been adopted according to the decree that the 87th Article of the Interior Charter, the bill or proposal of a new amendment, which has no subject to the debated bill or proposal, should not be implemented.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0080par0006	Sir, call the commission.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0079par0007	I'm reading article one: ELECTRIC PIANO REPLICATION PRODUCTION WITH PRIVATE CONTROL TO CONTINUATION IN THE LAW Article 1-20/2/2001 added the following sentence to paragraph 5 of Article 3 of Article 3 (c) bend (3) of Article 4628 of Electric Market Law. ▪ Parsing operations that will be carried out within the scope of Section 13/6/2006 and Section 5520 under the Taxes Act 5520, provided it is carried out through registered values. First speaker on behalf of the groups on the matter, Adana MP for the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Umit Özgüşmişmiş. Mr. Ozgimi, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0081par0015	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the proposed amendment to the Energy Market Editing Law. I salute you. What we're talking about is one of the most important issues in Turkey, both economically and politically and foreign policy. Because as you all know, about 24 per cent of Turkey's imports come from energy and triggers a current deficit by increasing the external trade deficit severely. Cari is one of Turkey's most important problems at the moment. Secondly, we are interested in industry, the economy because -- I've often said here in my speech -- one of the most important problems facing the Turkish industry is the lack of competitiveness. In particular, Turkey has a competition problem because it cannot be tax reformed during AKP rulings, since electricity prices cannot be reduced, it cannot be taxed and recorded in social security. But electricity, one of the most important inputs, is that when compared with countries that we're competing with, it's very high, so it also has a serious impact on the competitiveness of industry. From time to time, Mr. Minister here compares electricity prices in Turkey, whether it's bureaucrats or other politicians, tells us that the price of energy in Turkey is cheaper at work than Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, or other countries, but what concerns us is not them, but countries like China, India, South Korea. Today, while still around 8 cents in China, the price of electricity energy averages us around 14-15 cents. Therefore, because energy is so important today in Turkey, especially in 2013, large industrial facilities have not yet been able to budget because there is uncertainty in energy prices. After Gazprom announced that the European countries would be given a 10% discount, will Turkey or will it not do so; will natural gas prices increase or not be given in Turkey? They're having a hard time making their 2013 budgets because it's not clear. It's very important to him, and it's very important to the competitiveness. Last year, gas prices averaged 4.5 per cent in Europe, but in contrast, Turkey increased by around 30 per cent. This year is unpredictable. It's important to him, too. But more importantly, energy is a very strategic product. Dear friends, close to all the wars in the last 50 years, perhaps all of them are wars made to ensure the safety of energy pathways by taking over the world's particularly energy zones or removing obstacles to the energy pathways. Today, we are bringing freedom to Syria, which AKP's government has brought with a thousand lies. There is no freedom in Syria. We are defending the freedom of the people in Syria. It's so strategic for him, too. Now, about 76 per cent of Turkey's energy is dependent on the outside, we all know that, and especially 63 per cent of oil imports only come from Iran and Russia. We depend on Iran, Russia; 63 percent. The import of natural gas is also 77 per cent dependent on Iran and Russia. Now, dear friends, with so many bellies attached to these two countries, we're about to break down our relations with these two important countries, and there's a tension. Now, we've got a new problem. The United States is facing pressure from Turkey to reduce the amount of energy that Turkey receives from Russia and Iran, especially following the embargo in Iran, to reduce the amount of energy from there and to extract oil from northern Iraq, Barzani, Turkey. Now, he faces a stalemate: If America does what he says and connects to northern Iraq, it will become dependent on northern Iraq, but more importantly, right now Turkey has started taking energy from northern Iraq, from Barzani, from international teams, from time to time, contrary to international agreements. But from here, it's a very dangerous drink and it's headed for a very dangerous trial. Today they hold talks with the Imran, and negotiate with the Imran. As a result of these negotiations, two steps forward, one step forward, two steps back, but eventually there's a demand for autonomy in the southeast, and there's an autonomy in the southeast, but when the international hearing is formed, when you give autonomy to the southeast tomorrow, against the will of the Republic of Turkey, you'll be saying that Batman oil is being sold elsewhere from today to a very dangerous point. Now, that's how Turkey plays dangerous in energy. Dear friends, there's a Chinese proverb that says: "Those who love flying must have wings. There's a Turkish response, and if I don't say it, I'll tell you about it. Those who don't know the truth will say to those who don't: "He's the trumpetmaster who trusts his breath." It's not the truth, but you'll find out. Now, my dear friends, you have no capital savings, you depend on hot money; you have no energy, 90-92 percent dependent on outside; you have no war technology; you have no fighting technology; you can't stop the war that goes on inside you for years; you can't stop it; to stop it, we'll bring the rope back to the Imran, which you called yesterday. You go to the Imralı, and then you come back to the point of war with a neighbouring country for subcontractorship. And that's a very dangerous destination. As far as we're concerned, there's an extension of incentives within these 3-4 substances that come in. Dear friends, this is wrong and dangerous. It's a habit that leads to theft, corruption, abuse. Now, in the 4th article that came in -- the other Commission has removed it again in Article 2 -- the extension of the deadlines that ended in 2012, one by 2015, one by 2019; this will enter these tenders, make these plants, create uncertainty, for the contractors who will do this license or these investments. Because if you put these incentives in for five years and serious, big investors, big investors, if they don't think that five years of incentives is enough for that investment, then they won't invest in them. But you, five years later, three years later, after the deadline -- like today -- if you try to extend these deadlines, you create an unfair competition for honest investors who don't do it, who don't do it, who don't take that contract, who don't get that license. So the 70th minute of the game is to try to change the rules, which is not true. You are a state, so that ten days after passing 31/12, instead of bringing this law, these were discussed earlier, or when these incentives were given, correctly calculated, and were declared equal to all investors for how long the incentive would last, so that there would be no unfair competition. Other than that, we'll support the right decisions about this -- the whole law in the days to come -- and when the whole law comes, especially when it comes to domestic resources, to return to renewable resources, we'll say that now. But while we're at it, we need to know that we're going to split hairs. Mr. Secretary, there have been half a megawatt power plants built on the creeks, on the teas, recently, very small. Number one: Since there was no proper basin plan there, except for the fact that the water was not done, the environment was disturbed, but the generators, half-megawatt plants, were brought in from China, and three years passed, and now they're all falling apart. If these are not controlled, Turkey will soon become a generator dump. We have coal underground around 11 billion cubic metres. Of course, because coal investments are longer, because natural gas investments run out in two years and coal plant investments last more than five years, no one gets in because it's harder to run, but here's the thing about social democracy, we say: if the state doesn't enter the private sector on these issues, on strategic issues, if the government doesn't enter the private sector for the benefit of the state. Let alone sell everything you've got, the state should invest in these matters itself, should be able to. Because this law does not prevent the missing fugitive, because it does not prevent injustice, because it creates unfair competition, we declare that we will vote negatively. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0082par0030	Thank you, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0083par0031	You didn't say 5084, 5084.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0081par0032	I didn't have time.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0082par0033	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group now, Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0084par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, the first clause that I have promised is actually unnecessary, and we've told the Minister in the Commission, but sometimes there's hesitation. They say, "There's a need to put it here." We've already talked to our expert friends. They say that this is the kind of process. But now I'm looking at the reason for the material, and a little bit before I get to its last sentence, it says that a significant amount of tax, image, spending is coming out, and that if the amount is reflected to consumers, there will be an increase in electricity prices, so it's going to be the added sentence that ensures that the costs don't reflect on consumers. Now, this has nothing to do with consumers. We asked our friends, and they said, "This already exists. I mean, it's in the tax code. What's the big deal? It's supposed to be in the book with its registered value. That's something that's already been there. There doesn't have to be an energy company in all kinds of divisions, mergers, cycles, and it doesn't have to be in privatisation, so somehow if a company merges with another company or divides or anything else, it's already in our legislation. Make sure we don't get in trouble with the deals here, so we don't get in trouble with some contracts tomorrow. Now, on the other hand, wealth is increasing. So what's it gonna be? The government will put it in one pocket and the other, even if it's true. Now, who are you making pay for the deficit in the budget... from other places... from the missing collections in privatisation or the lack of privatisation? You're making the citizen pay. While the budget was being discussed, I reminded you here. I told you when there was Mr. Finance Minister, and I told you on the commission, and our friends told me. The year before, in September, we had 5.5.5 billion deficits. Mr. Finance Minister said. When he says open, he means different than what we're aiming at. This year we've calculated 21-something. He said it's going to be 35. We've got to find another 14 billion, put it on! We put the eight-and-a-half-nine billion package in September. Every time we put these gaps on the back of a citizen, he's not going anywhere else. Now, you've given us a reason not to upload it to the citizen. It's all paid by citizens, all due to budget deficits, whether you're short on privatisation revenues, or we've put in 2/B, we can't do that, we can't do that, we can't do that, we can't do that... what's going on? We're going back, OTV, VAT increase. Instead of taking directly from income, we do it directly with taxes on consumption. We said, "This causes income injustice, and tax injustice also affects the distribution of income." Now, then, what's the point of these substances? Now, let the government take it from one pocket to another. Otherwise, it's one thing to give up your tax on VAT, but here we're officially writing something else to the law, so there's no arguing about some firms. And here, dear friends, while we're talking, we've also told the Minister that there are arrangements, that need to be done when they're told. Yes, let's extend it to 2015... our friends brought it here in a hurry, and suddenly we've got an offer, the classic concept of the Justice and Development Party. And right now upstairs -- I just got here, and I'll be back now -- the subcommittee is under way. There's a bill coming in, Mr. Secretary forgets it, it's coming out to some bureaucrat, I don't know if it's coming out to them, they're running, it's a three or five-point offer. Why? The most sensitive things come with this offer. You know, we discussed the same thing in the SEC Law, and it comes in every law. Look, it's just like it's going on up there. What, you can't sit and talk on the Council of Ministers, and one minister doesn't accept the other, so what, the Finance Minister and Finance bureaucrats don't want it because there's a deficit in the budget here? I don't get it, every time, but there's no bill of law, so we don't have to add an offer later, or have our friends come to us with 8 or 10 proposals 5 or 6 pages wide, which could be a last-minute proposal or a bill. It's a lack of coordination; one. Second: The draft laws are drawn up by opinions from relevant institutions, friends. If you don't mind, value the opinion of those bureaucrats you're leading, the ones you've appointed, they'll warn you early, and then you won't have to face trial or investigation in any way. That's what we do. Over and over again, we are in favor of constructive, guiding opposition. As the National Movement Party, we always offer solutions. In fact, Mr. Secretary said until 2015, the other article will come. I said to him, "Let's keep it up. Why? If we can limit natural gas consumption, if the power plant works with natural gas, if it uses coal instead, but local coal, for example, if we look at the current situation, if we evaluate the potential, friends, we're going to go back and rely on imported coal as an alternative. Look, I mean, we're already growing addicted to natural gas, over 90 percent, all of them. When we look at the energy field, we're addicted to imports, we're addicted to outside, but even when we're editing, if the licenses that we're giving now come in, we're more dependent. Let's go back to local resources, renewable resources, yes. Let's encourage them, yes. Not even until 2015, but forever. Let's not limit the use of local coal, let's remove 2015. For the benefit of our country, and for the national energy policy, we have no problem with that if it gives local resources, renewable energy sources, but it came from there, it came from here, we're in a hurry on that commission... What if he leaves in a week? They said it's going up to 31/12. There's a budget in between. The court turned him, this came from here. Well, what we've brought back with a redesign is an offer before the bill is passed. The bill, the proposal, it's coming together, it's getting legal. Do you know how many times we've made these arrangements? So, what happens in the ordinance of the law is that the next day, we do it after every law, as it has to be corrected by the new law. Let's do what needs to be done in these matters. Let's aim for the years ahead, 2023, even 2053. We said, let's fulfill the vision of Turkey, the leader country. We'd love for you to embrace our vision, but for him, we need to get rid of this addiction, maintain energy supply security. Plans are good, but investments must be made for the implementation of these plans, resources related to them, and a transition process must be foreseen, dear friends. Or what? We'll be back again. Unfortunately, these goals didn't hold up, we came. We will return with budget deficits due to mismanagement, and we will lay them on the citizens with indirect taxes. So, here we have to adopt an energy strategy that will reduce our expense in the long run, reduce our energy budget to minimum, and predict a gradual transition over the next few years, and I'm telling you every time. There are good readings, wind maps on one side, solar energy on the other, and then one thing turns out to be a priority. So, by reviewing these issues on this occasion, I have once again presented what must be done on the basis of this clause. Come on, let's not burden the citizens with the missing fugitive ratios, the loss of transmissions. Let's sit here and find out what the bill is. If the private sector can't afford it, then -- you're sharing a lot of risk in other places -- let's share it in public, but let's not bring it directly to the citizen, there's already a lot of burden on them. In other articles, our friends will also express their opinion, and we will ask for these corrections with the motions, but let's give up the habit of making laws in this haste; let's all look here, and take our recommendations from the commissions, but first of all, let's get the bill from the normal place and let the relevant institutions have their opinions. And from now on, he says, let our laws be healthier, and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0085par0056	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The next speaker is Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Dora, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0086par0061	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the 1st Amendment to the Power Market Act 393 and the Law on Special Consumption Tax. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the need for electricity has become one of the essential needs of water and air today. It's impossible to think of life without electricity from the dwellings to the big businesses. Power shortages in major enterprises are disrupting industrial production, while the power cuts in the dwellings paralyse daily life, and the citizens are incredibly victimised. In this context, the basic task of companies that produce electricity is to provide the citizens with cheap, quality electricity services. The power outage, which is somewhat effective throughout Turkey, and the problem of missing illegal electricity, is much more serious in our eastern and southeast regions. We see that decades of neglect and poverty, unfortunately, have also been implemented in the field of energy policies. Tension surges in summer are accompanied by hours of power outages every day in winter, as well as thousands of pounds of financial damage, life for citizens is unbearable. Although much of Turkey's need for electricity is provided from dams in the region, the region's energy infrastructure and power distribution networks do not respond. Continuous power outages stem from the lack of response to the growing population of transformers established years ago. In the summer months, citizens living in the cities of Urbana, Diyarbakır and other district cities, particularly my constituency district, are devastated that they are unable to meet electricity needs due to fluctuations in power distribution networks. It is even more unbearable for the elderly and children to fill hospitals with elderly citizens having heart attacks due to high temperatures. In addition, health care agencies and industrial facilities have become unable to work or produce. This situation, which has caused major losses to the region and the country's economy, has reached more severe levels from day to day. Due to tension fluctuations and blackouts in many hospitals in the region, air conditioning, generators and medical equipment are damaged or unable to function. Therefore, there is a danger of serious loss of life, especially in the case of child mortality. Mr. President, my constituency, which is a tourist paradise, is Mardin, one of the cities where power cuts take place most. Many districts, including Mardin's centre, suffer major losses, especially from winter power cuts and summer fluctuations. I'd like to give you a few examples of this tragic situation. Because of the earlier arrival of transformers in the 1990s, electrical surges have so far caused more than 200 large fires in various parts of the district, killings and serious injuries have occurred, financial damage. Because of power outages, there is a problem with lighting in the streets and streets, women and children can't get out of their homes. Besides, harassment and theft are increasing day by day. In Savur district, many of the public have been burned to death by white objects and electronics, as electricity is constantly in and out of power and the voltage goes up all of a sudden. In addition, the town's need for drinking water is provided from pump wells, which also causes power failures in pumps, as well as the county's lack of water supply. Although Midyat is the most tourist-friendly district in Mardin province, the same problem is much more serious. Due to electrical failures, the county store and municipality are unable to work. Businessmen who come to Midyat to invest in electricity, after learning about the problems with electricity, give up their investment and move elsewhere. Despite the rapid increase in the population of Kızıltepe, electrical problems continue to occur from transformers. The problem with electricity fluctuations in Kızıltepe has caused financial damage expressed by millions of dollars, while companies in organised industry have failed to produce orders, causing the orders to be cancelled. The operation was not performed for two months at Kızıltepe State Hospital. Members of parliament, it is impossible to understand the shortage of electricity in a region with many dams, the main source of electricity production in our country. There's always talk of the area using illegal electricity, but the illegal electricity used throughout the region is the equivalent of electricity used by several large-scale factories in the west. The government's job is not to accuse the poor by claiming to be using illegal electricity, but to provide cheap, quality and uninterrupted electricity to the public. Again, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0087par0073	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. On behalf of the individuals, Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. Mr. Özkan, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0088par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Although our House is empty, we have citizens listening to us online, and I salute them.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0089par0079	You don't count us, do you?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0088par0080	Counting you, I salute you. It's about energy. It's all about energy. I've been walking through the villages, and an aunt said: "My son, the world is honey, but the handle of the spoon is broken." There's a refrigerator in the house, there's a washing machine, there's a vacuum cleaner, there's a dishwasher, there's nothing there, but I pay half my pension for electricity, for water. I used to use water from the fountain, and now I use fresh water. We've got a natural gas heater -- they've given it a plate -- but we can't afford that natural gas. What is this, and what will become of us? Well, the people who deal with agriculture and livestock... they have the milk machine, they have the right unit, they have the refrigeration tanks, but the farmer's hand is dough, he's hungry. There's a lot of shareholders, milk for milk, milk for milk, but there's a cow coming out of a cow, a feeder, an electrical partner, a tractor partner, a mouse partner in the field, a snake partner, a fox partner, a monster partner, a partner, a lot of electricity, and if you can get out of it, there's a lot of electricity. I mean, he's in a situation like this, the citizen's a mess. We're all seeing this together. 18 percent of these supports are VAT... There's a fungal manufacturer, mushrooms... we think of air conditioning only at home as cooling and heating, but those culture mushrooms we eat don't work until the air conditioning works. In the summer as a cooler, as a refrigeration, as a winter heater, now we have tomatoes, pepper greenhouses... There's air conditioning in the greenhouses right now, and they're powered up. In this energy, the VAT is 18 percent in agricultural energy, and we've said it over and over again so that you can draw it to 8 percent or to 1 percent because it's the biggest entry. We're giving up the gas, we're giving up the fertilizer, but we've got energy. Let's draw 18 percent of the energy in agricultural irrigation to 1 percent. Drills are working. Now, you tried to put a meter on the drills. I'm wanted from Turkey, my dear friends, from the country -- because we're third-term MPs, there are different cities -- I'm wanted from Ionya, I'm wanted from Düzce, I'm wanted from Kastamon, I'm wanted from Burdur, I'm wanted from Antalya, I'm wanted from Isparta, I'm wanted from Afyon. Caller, right now 90 percent of the phones are connected to the drills... what are they saying? Mr. Prime Minister told us to have three children. What am I supposed to look at these kids with? When I put on a meter, it's two thousand liras, three thousand liras. It was 2,000 liras, 3,000 liras, a year's income to raise children in the countryside, but now, I'm going to put on a bill. I'm going to put on 2,000 liras, 3,000 liras, 4,000 liras... according to the land that's going to be watered. Where did this come from, he says. He's questioning it, citizen, and I'm sharing it with you. Mr. Secretary, as a government, you need to take these as quickly as possible and give up the love of wearing this meter. This water has been used for years, but we need to explain the normal use of water, the necessity of implementing the drip system, the fact that water is our common property, so let's not use it lightly, but let's give up this meter as soon as possible. Now, there is one thing that the proverbs did not say in vain: the son of a fool gives the goods, and releases the bird in the cage until he comes. I had a bird in this cage, but when I let it go, when this bird is gone, it doesn't come back. This money doesn't return to me. It says. Why isn't he coming back? It doesn't come back from milk, it doesn't come back from meat, it doesn't come back from wheat, it doesn't come back from mushrooms, it doesn't come back from the apple he put in the cold storage. There are cold air tanks in our area. They say: "We can't get the money we give to the cold tank, we can't get the money we give to the energy, we can't buy from the box of apples we make, we can't buy from the product we sell. Look, it's now sold for 75 cents, 80 cents for apples in cold storage, Ankara. Why is that? The transportation, the energy money. You must harness energy here as a government. In particular, I recommend that you draw the VAT in agricultural irrigation from 18 per cent in agriculture and livestock from 18 per cent in agricultural water, the VAT in electricity from 18 to 1.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0090par0087	Mr. Özkan, thank you. On behalf of his people, Kütahya MP Mr. Vural Katuncu. Mr. Cantaloupe, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0091par0092	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Power Market Act and to the Law on the Amendment to the Special Consumption Tax Act. I salute the High Council. In order to make the market more competitive with the regulations made in the electricity market, production, distribution and retail sales are expected to be separated. This allows consumers to choose companies to satisfy energy needs. As of 1 January 2013, distribution companies began their division process, but a significant amount of tax, image and tuition costs are emerging as a result of the separation of 21 electricity distribution companies, and if the amount is reflected to consumers, any work and transactions will be carried out within this scope due to the necessity of increasing electricity prices. This allows distribution companies to avoid taxing their profits due to divisions in order to create separate companies to conduct production and retail sales activities. Dear lawmakers, there are some regional differences in our country, while missing fugitive rates are lower than the European Union average. The fight is being carried out by our government and continues with determination. By the end of 2015, our country is also expected to reach lower levels than the average of EU countries at this rate. There are still serious increases in the capacity of our energy sources. It is also true that 98% of natural gas currently covers 87 per cent of energy consumption, 91% of oil and 90 per cent of stone coal are imported, and 22 per cent of imports of imports of $240 billion in 2011 constitute energy imports. For this reason, recent work has been done in terms of both renewable energy and the value of our national energy resources. In this sense, I'd like to give short examples of some of the studies: We've established two different types and special coal-gas pilot facilities in the Bronzebilek workshops area of the GLI establishment that we've visited with our Minister in the last few days. The total cost of the facilities is approximately 2.8 million TL. Developments in gassing technology show that hydrogen and fuel cells defined as the energy of the future will play an important role in commercialisation and rapid use. Again, I'd like to share another very important information. Our province of Kütahya is the province of Rabbitlı, and our town of Tunçbilek has contributed substantially to the development of our country as a region of our country's most important source of coal and energy. However, in our area of open and underground coal mines, it was predicted that the life of the open coal mines would end four or five years later. On the other hand, we have very rich underground resources. Here are the arrangements for the removal of our total 170 million tonnes of coal reserves in deep areas of Omarler-B Underground and Beşiktepe, provided by the private sector. Over $600 million has been created to model a new tender for these giant projects that will directly invest over $6 billion. In both projects, direct investment and employment, as well as indirect investments and employment, will bring a significant value to our country and bring prosperity to the people of our region. Dear lawmakers, when the bill is about energy, I'd like to talk about things that are made in very short topics in the field of energy. Look what was done in power for ten years: the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project, which will carry Azerbaijan's gas through Turkey, took the first step with Azerbaijan. In 2002, the amount of oil and natural gas drilling -- 22,000 metres -- was brought to 300,000 levels. The construction of Bakû-Tiflis-Ceyhan Ham Oil Pipeline, which has not been completed for many years, has been completed. In 2002 the export figure, $303 million, was raised to $1.68 billion in 9.5 years. Electricity production in Turkey was 130 billion kilowatt hours in 2002, while the figure was increased to 230 billion kilowatts. Between 2005 and 2008, we did 386 rehabilitation projects in our thermal plants, providing 5.6 billion kilowatts of energy equivalent to the annual production of two Keban Hydroelectric Plants. Dear lawmakers, these investments will continue to brighten the tomorrows of our country and our country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0092par0107	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe. Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-and-answer procedure in ten minutes. I'll promise our friends who got into the system. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0093par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. However, Mr. Secretary, we'd like to ask the Minister the question. There are no licenses in our country for 500 kva. Is there any study at the Ministry for the removal of these to two megawatts? Do you plan to extend the license for wind and solar power plants to five megawatts, as in the European countries? In addition, State Waterworks didn't charge water from power plants up to 1 megawatt. These days, State Waterworks has a job at the point where they get money from these plants. Are you going to intervene on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0094par0116	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0095par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Between 2008 and 2012, how many of the mechanical electric meters that had filled the ten-year stamp time in distribution areas have been changed by electronic meter? In exchange for removing these counters and replacing them with new counters, how much did the subscribers collect, including the meter price? Is it true that instead of turning electricity distribution tenders into investments, the corporations are using the money they collect personally to make investments with the public source they collect from consumers? Do you agree? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0096par0122	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0097par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, since 2006, when you made national tariffs for the implementation of missing fugitive tariffs, which areas of distribution in the electric distribution zones have increased the number of missing fugitives? How do you explain this? On the other hand, what was the distribution of the missing illegal dues and collection rates by the region? Can you account for the fact that in the Southeast provinces, they are close to zero?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0098par0127	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0099par0129	Mr. Secretary, last week in Zonguldak, Turkey collapsed in Stone Coal, and we lost our fellow workers. The director general of the TTK has made a statement, Mr. General Manager says: "We will lay off workers who are debtors or who have paid their wages because workers are confused, unable to give themselves to work, and therefore their business accidents are increasing." Here, Mr. General Manager is making a sincere statement about how bad the wages of our brothers working in the Stone Coal are and how much they are having a hard time making a living. And secondly, I'm waiting on Mr. Secretary General's assessment of this statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0100par0132	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Akgun...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0101par0134	Mr. Minister, when are you planning to go to the thermal power plant tender for the coal presence of Karaman Ayrancı district of Konya Karapınar district? Secondly, there is a serious lack of infrastructure at the point of putting a meter on underground drilling wells. Do you plan to postpone this application? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0102par0137	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0103par0139	Mr. Minister, after the privatisation of electricity distribution -- after the reading of their funds -- their money was not kept waiting until the end of the semester, and was performed on the road of early collection, especially because of the money return from production. Do you think this should be paid in periods? Two: After privatisations, the citizens' meter will be changed mandatoryly by privatisation companies until a specific date, and as long as this is not done, its electricity will be cut off by notifications to our citizens. What do you think about that? Three: The electricity prices used by municipalities in water production and treatment facilities have not been reduced in all industry, although electricity prices have been lowered everywhere. Why do you think the city's water production...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0104par0142	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0105par0144	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to begin by welcoming your delegation back. First of all, we have an arrangement on the bill presented in view of the Energy and Industry Commission regarding the unlicensed production systems on the 500 kilowatt border. It's the right arrangement. Gene, we're getting a very serious support from the public. I see now that there's a demand for further improvement, about 2-2.5 megawatts, and we're authorizing the Council of Ministers to release up to 2.5 megawatts, because there's a certain order and control that needs to be done here, and there's a lot of sensitivity here. Of course, the question was asked by my friends now, how much income or until the removal of the mechanical electric meter? First, we need to clear up a misunderstanding. The price is not listed among the revenues of privatized distribution companies. For the public's sake -- since there's no sale of assets -- it's being collected and passed on to the public. So, here's why the private company is getting revenue by increasing the number of them, which makes the wrong logic, because none of those revenues are written in their own households. In other words: are there places where missing fugitives have increased? Yes, there are areas where missing fugitives have increased, and some of which unfortunately have been announced and have not been paid by the terrorist organization. There are some places called, and we have identified. We've watched this with regret, but I have to tell you, of course, it's a fact. I think it might be appropriate for us to give a picture in comparison with the missing percentages of EDAS and private distribution companies because I need to explain 21 areas. Our friends are preparing him now. I'll also be presenting to Mr. Alim or to friends who want to. In TTK's coal basin in Zonguldak, there was an accident that hurt all of us deeply, and that's what our deputy did, and they asked about the arrangement that the executive workers would be laid off after a while. In fact, friends, this is one of the articles mentioned in the Court's audit -- it has been overlooked a lot. That's what the review board has been talking about. I, now, have instructed my friends to make the necessary arrangements, as to whether the same will be done in every report of the Court -- of course, the administration, the administration has a certain initiative. Those fellow workers, our colleagues, they're with us, and we don't want them to be victims, of course, but know that that's what two separate reports mention. I gave my friends the proper instructions. We have an important reserve of 1.8 billion tons, similar to the Afshin-Elbistan basin, in answer to the question of Mr. Akgün. This reserve is a reserve that has recently been detected. We're going to have to see this recently -- because we need to see what percentages of geography it's distributed with more drilling -- but we're going to have to do it with a little bit of caution, without waiting too long, and we're going to go out with a model that the public is going to guarantee itself, because we're going to be careful not to leave a heel in the coal, even if there are three or four plants being built here. Right now, our industrialists in the Konya and Karaman region have come together to form an initiative, a delegation of entrepreneurs, and we've seen that one of the applications is like this; of course, we have no connection, no connection, but as an important offer, we'll consider it as an offer from the local investor. Friends of the DSI's counters, there was an arrangement in 2011, although this is not about the Ministry of Energy, I'd like to say. The DSI, as a result of criticism -- they just said, "Mr. Congressman, there are water that's very vulgar" -- why is that water being used for free, and why is my field being watered with pumps, not charm? So just as we're trying not to take the price of those who are using electricity from the other, and if our conversations are in that direction, they say that the government is wearing that meter because it doesn't find it right to use water without money or price -- forgive me -- in such a secular way. Again, we'll discuss this with our Minister of the Forest. ▪ When should the debt of our farmers be due, and when should the debt of the end of the term be collected, and when should it be collected? Friends, I was a general manager at a distribution company about 14 or 15 years ago, and this has been changed three times. There was an arrangement in 1994, when the TEDAS Governing Body made a decision, they said: "At the end of our crop, those who plant potatoes should pay us at the end of the potato, at the end of the cotton-planting cotton cotton, at once a year." But it turns out that the total price of that savings cannot be paid at the end of a year. If you remember, there has been an arrangement of 2.6 billion TL, which, in the event that all of our farmers are able to construct and pay their debts, if the money is paid in full, interest has been pardoned, but so far, there have been those of our farmers, those who have taken offense to it, those who have disagreed with it. Then it was said: "Let it be done every month." It was said, "Where shall we get the money every month?" It was done in four months. So they've been changed three times. Guys, now, we have to collect this money so we don't have to increase the negative amount that we're going to transfer to the pool. So that's what this was about, after we had a meeting with irrigation troops, agricultural loan co-ops and 46 co-ops. So, once again, we'll arrange it in case it's too much to ask, but I'd like to make it clear once again that this has been tried before. Mr. President, I'm out of time, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0106par0153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are seven motions on matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival, and then I'll process them according to the order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the sentence added to paragraph 5 of Article 2/1059 and Article 3 (c) of Article 4628 of the Law Proposal, I propose and recommend that the clause of the subcommittee #2/1059 be replaced by Article 1 and Article 4628. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the sentence added to paragraph 5 of Article 2/1059 and Article 3 (c) of Article 4628 of the Law Proposal, I propose and recommend that the clause of the subcommittee #2/1059 be replaced by Article 1 and Article 4628. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st Amendment to Electric Market Law 2/1059, which is currently being discussed, in the following way, be changed by the Special Consumption Tax Act. Mehmet Doğan Kubat from Nurettin Caniklı Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı The following sentence was added at the end of Article 1 - 20/2/2001 and Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 4628 (c) bend (3). "Separation of transactions and retail sales activities is considered a division in accordance with Article 5520's Tax Act, provided it is carried out in accordance with the procedures and principles set by this Law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 393 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 1 - 20/2/2001 added the following sentence to paragraph 5 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 4628 (c) bend (3) of Article 1 - 20/2/2001 and Article 3 of Electric Market Law. ▪ Partial division is part of the Act on Institutions Tax No. 5520, which is dated 13/6/2006, under the condition of the separation process to be carried out over the registered values. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 393 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. M. Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu The following sentence was added to the fifth paragraph of Article 3 (c) bend (3) of Article 3 of Article 4628, dated 1 - 20/2/2001 and Article 4628. ▪ Parsing operations that will be carried out within the scope of Article 5520, on the basis of a common procedure and basis set by the Ministry of Finance and Energy and Natural Resources, and on the basis of registration values, is considered part of the Act on Institutions Taxes No. 13/6/2006, and on the basis of Article 5520. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of the current law proposal 393 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Alim Imız Necati Özensoy Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Article 1-20/2/2001 and Article 3 of Article 4628 of the Electric Market Law (c) is added to the fifth paragraph of the subcommittee (3) at the end of the following sentence and clause (e) at the end of the following sentence (e). For this purpose, separation is part of the Article 13/6/2006 Article 5520 Tax Act, provided it is performed through registered values. The cost of technical and nontechnical losses in the electrical system cannot be foreseen by consumers who do not use illegal electricity. Also, the cost of reading counters cannot be charged to consumers." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 393 draft bill be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0107par0201	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0106par0202	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0108par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0106par0204	I'm reading the reason: Today, capital has a wide range of tax exemptions. The stamp tax and tax burden found in companies is not already taken from the capital with today's regulations. The tax, which has not been taken from capital over 100 euros, is indirectly taxed on the people's back. While the high tax burden on large populations is reducing living conditions day after day, it is the continuation of anti-society regulations when tax loads stemmed from companies' segregation procedures are made to benefit from exceptions in the Institutions Tax Act.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0109par0207	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0106par0208	I submit to your votes the motion that the Commission and the government do not agree, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first amendment of the current law proposal 393 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 1 - 20/2/2001 and the fifth paragraph of Article 3 (c) of Article 4628 of the Power Market Law (c) is added to the fifth paragraph of paragraph (3) at the end of the following sentence and clause (e) at the end of the following sentence (e). For this purpose, separation is considered a division of the 13/6/2006 Act under the Act on the Taxes of Institutions 5520, provided it is performed through registered values." "e) In licenses and regulations by the Institution, the cost of technical and nontechnical losses in the electrical system cannot be foreseen by consumers who do not use illegal electricity. Also, the cost of reading counters cannot be charged to consumers." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0110par0217	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0106par0218	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0111par0219	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0106par0220	A scholar's Light... Mr. Light, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0112par0223	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on the 1st Article of the Law Proposal 393 that is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers predict exemption from VAT and OTV in separate companies in order to prevent additional charges from being reflected in consumers, as our group's speakers have expressed before me. Thus, the writing of matter in this form was added to the proposal of the law, thinking it would be useful to write, although unnecessary. We participate in this chapter, but the second part of our proposal envisions changing the system, which predicts that the missing fugitives, which began in 2006 and were called national tariffs, should be reflected at an equal rate of 75 million people living in Turkey. The AKP government, which has been in power for ten years now, began with an opening message from Diyarbakır in 2005 and since 2006, moving from the fact that there are not even a penny of electric money being collected in some parts of this country to the fact that there are areas in which there are no electric money being collected, let's not allow other citizens to pay for illegal electricity money after that. We say, "Let's leave the national tariff." That means that each power distribution company will personally cover the missing fugitive rate in the area within the company area. Thus, the damage done by the southeastern Tigris or Van Electric Dispersal Company in the east or the Bosporus Electric Dispersion Company in İstanbul will be spared by a member or registered subscriber of a distribution company in the south or west or Central Anatolia. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you again the Minister's response in April 2012 to a motion we gave to the Minister earlier. We asked about the targets for the reduction of these missing fugitive rates, between 2012-2015, respectively, from 13 per cent to 9 per cent each year. During budget talks in 2013, he said, in his own words, the average missing fugitive rate in 2012 was 16.8 per cent. Now the target is 13%, 17%. He answered in April the same year, four points in December. Now, Mr. Secretary, in the year 2015, we're going down to 10 percent. He says -- he's already declared 9 -- what system will you go from 17 per cent to 10 per cent in two years? You're saying... Mr. Prime Minister also confirmed when he went to Şanlıurfa and sort of confessed that since 2006, I, my citizens, have not made you pay for the illegal electricity money. He said, "You're not going to use illegal electricity anymore, are you?" But he didn't get a round of applause. So, how are you going to reduce the loss of seven points in two years? We just asked, we're going to fall. You say. That's not possible, Mr. Secretary. Therefore, this must be changed as predicted in our proposal, and must be moved to the regional system immediately. Then the neighbor who saw any subscribers missing or using illegal electricity in that area will say, "I'm sorry, I'm paying you." He'll stop him. Otherwise, with this system... You, if, in the Oslo process, we will certainly not make you pay for electricity. If you have promised, explain. That's what this means. We'll change that with this motion. Therefore, if there is a right to 75 million, the motion must be accepted. Otherwise, you will not be able to collect any collections from that area after this, but the figures you've already given contradict the fact that the collection rate is 20 per cent. So no matter how many tickets you fine in that area, you can't collect that money, and you won't be able to do it anymore. I wish you the acceptance of our motion, and I offer you my regards again.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0113par0232	Thank you, Mr. Light. Congressmans, I submit to you the motion that the Commission and the government disagree: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 393 is the number of the First Amendment. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Article 1-20/2/2001 added the following sentence to the fifth paragraph of Article 3 (c) of Article 3 of Article 4628 of Electric Market Law (3). ▪ Parsing operations that will be carried out within the scope of the Law on Institutions' Taxes No. 5520, on the condition that the Ministry of Finance and Energy and Natural Resources shall observe the procedures and principles established jointly by the Ministry of Finances and Natural Resources, and on the basis of registration values. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0114par0241	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0113par0242	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0115par0243	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0113par0244	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0116par0246	Mr. President, with a change in the Electric Market Law in 2008, the rule of distribution companies to divide production and retail sales by 31 December 2012, and since 1 January 2013, these companies will operate as separate corporate entities as retail and manufacturing companies. Now, there's been an arrangement for some companies in this history, with no change in it, that makes this division of theirs unique to the corporate tax. If these companies haven't done the decomposition process so far, what you need to do is change January 1st, 2013, and put it on a more advanced date, and you haven't done that. If that hasn't been done by now, then the government has been lazy and has waited. Why did you wait four and a half years? No, a lot of companies have done this sorting, and if a few companies haven't done it, you still have to change history, but then I have to ask you: you didn't bring this exception for other companies, so why do you bring a few companies -- the exception of income tax? There's no answer to that question. Second; second: Mr. Minister or related friends will now say, "Sir, we are repeating the exceptions of the Law of the Institutions; there is no new exception. If this statement is made, it is unrealistic; the exception of the Tax Act of Institutions is not brought here." Article 16 of the Law on Taxes 5520 determines the terms of the division of the Articles No. 5520, which is the expression in this law. First, it will be transferred over the registered value, and they will say, "We have taken it here." Two: these assets will be transferred over the registered value as the same capital. You don't have to put the same capital here. Again, there is a production facility where if it is to be divided, you will transfer all its assets to the other side; I do not see this condition here, and there is a very important condition in the Law on Institutions Tax, which is not moved here. It says that the decision of the Article 16 of the Act on Taxes is that if the share of the company is handed over as part of this division, the transfer of the shares of the company's shares to the shareholders must also be passed on to the non-moving and shared shares of the company. You do not make this period mandatory. Although these debts are required to be transferred, you don't force this era with the material you wrote. It's manipulative, open to protecting certain companies. If that is not your intention, then it is not your intention to carry the exception of the Institutions Tax Act here in a state of state. We have a proposal. You will say, your motion is not intended for that purpose. Your motion, for one thing, is to make an error of expression. You say in your motion: --It will be voted in a moment -- the process of dissolution of transactions and retail sales activities, as long as it's done through the values set in accordance with the procedures and foundations set by this law, is divided under the Act 5520. You will specify the procedures and basis for setting the value registered according to the Law on Electric Markets. But if that's not the intention, if it's to be followed in accordance with the law and handed over through the written value, these two are separate conditions, it's imperative to adapt to each other separately, your motion doesn't provide that. Finally, I'm going to say this: our motion gives the Ministry of Finance and Energy a joint mandate to address these inconveniences. It's a tax issue, and we're keeping it in mind by considering the principles of the Finance Ministry's Law on Institutions Taxes. We're also placing a transfer clause on a registered value, not the Department of Energy. Mr. Secretary's making a statement about unauthorized issues, no rise in natural gas, no increase in electricity... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now he's getting into something he's not authorized to do, and he wants me to handle the tax issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's not true, but when the relevant motion comes in, I suggest that we not vote on it. Let's fix this technical problem. If you're saying that this is not a technical problem, that we're going to process our motion, that we're going to accept it, that this motion is not a transparent proposal, I don't know what's underneath it. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0117par0257	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0118par0258	We're authorizing you. What more do you want?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0117par0259	Congressmans, I submit to you the motion that the Commission and the government disagree: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0118par0260	You don't have the authority, we've authorized you. What more do you want? Mr. Vedat, his bottom is empty, he won't do you any good.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0117par0261	I'm having the next motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 393 Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends Article 1-20/2/2001 added the following sentence to paragraph 5 of Article 3 of Article 3 (c) bend (3) of Article 4628 of Electric Market Law. ▪ Partial division is part of the Act on Institutions Tax No. 5520, which is dated 13/6/2006, under the condition of the separation process to be carried out over the registered values. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0119par0268	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0117par0269	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0120par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0121par0271	Dear Ali Sarıbaş...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0117par0272	Mr. Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0122par0275	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the current Electric Market Law and to the Amendment to the Special Consumption Tax Act. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, energy resources are one of the most important elements of our daily lives. Those responsible for the country's administration must provide the energy its people and its economy needs in uninterrupted, reliable, timely and cheap ways. Energy policies that will be determined from this point of view are very important. First of all, it's even more important to determine the potential of its own energy sources. How to develop existing resources, whether imports are necessary, policies and strategies for periods of time are also necessary and energy demand estimates are also required to be made healthy. All of this has to be done in scientific and realistic ways and with regard to the world's developments. One of the most important things to consider in determining energy policies is planning, but we haven't seen this plan during the AKP for ten years. Unfortunately, our country has an energy policy, especially in its final years, where the name of planning is not mentioned and it is almost forgotten. Energy policy in terms of the AKP is this: do-business, privatise, and make them depend on the outside as much as possible. Planning is the organisation of the production and consumption of resources based on their needs. Especially because of the lack of electricity energy, this energy is neither excessive nor incomplete, but is required to be produced and used with as much reserve capacity as necessary in time. Dear friends, after the industrial revolution, one of the most important sources of energy in the world has come forward and marked social developments. At a time when coal was almost unopposed, oil was marked by the discovery of oil. Nuclear energy came first after the oil crisis in 1973 and 1974. It has been limited to many countries around the world due to some apparent difficulties. In parallel with the developing environmental consciousness, natural gas has become increasingly active alongside oil and coal. In the coming process, clean and renewable sources of energy should become more important. For today, however, coal and natural gas maintain its weight with a overwhelming 88% share of the world's energy consumption. In our country, it is 87 per cent. Although the carbon that fossil sources emit in the process of converting to energy is harmful to environmental pollution, it is vital to produce the necessary energy, as well as as as to be the industrial raw material. For reasons that alternative sources do not seem possible to place these resources in such a short period of time, oil, coal and natural gas will be a determinant in the world's energy consumption over the next decade. Dear lawmakers, our energy outside dependency in AKP power, which has been in power for ten years, has risen to 73 per cent. Electricity prices in AKP rule have increased by 110 per cent, coal prices by 165 per cent, natural gas prices by 100 per cent. In our country, energy is 87% dependent on externality, and the money it pays for importing energy resources has increased by 550 per cent. Much of our country's energy production is covered by oil and natural gas, and in the last decade, the total share of renewable resources has been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. So Turkey has grown increasingly in the past decade, especially since its energy dependence on the outside has not used our resources, our own resources. Very valuable MPs, for this reason, I would like to point out where we're at in my speech, which I'm going to do later, with the ten-year-old AKP government's digital ratios, and in my next speech, where we're going. However, as always, his regression to the law, his failure to show a good way of ruling, as in the previous laws, has determined this law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're having a hard time figuring out why it's so late to pass this law. On this occasion...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0123par0284	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0124par0285	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0123par0286	Congressmans, I will submit to your votes the motion which the government and the Commission do not agree with, and I will call for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who do not accept... There's a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the First Amendment to Power Market Law 2/1059, which is currently being discussed, shall be changed in the following way. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends The following sentence has been added at the end of Article 1-20/2/2001 and Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 4628 of the Electric Market Law at the end of the subdivision (3). "Separation of transactions and retail sales activities is considered a division in accordance with Article 5520's Tax Act, provided it is carried out in accordance with the procedures and principles set by this Law." Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0125par0300	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement. The separation of the added sentence's distribution and retail sales activities, followed by the word "Public People's Party Vice President" in accordance with the procedure and fundamentals set by this Law -- in which there are warnings from the Republican People's Party Vice President, whose assessment is correct -- we leave it on the condition of a comma.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0123par0301	Mr. Gardendoor?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0126par0302	Motive... We're joining the comma, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0123par0304	Your Honor, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0127par0305	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0128par0306	Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Commissioner, but what happens if we don't have a comma? I mean, what would happen without a comma, what would happen with a comma?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0129par0307	May I have your word?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0130par0308	Now, the values that are registered in this law... are a separate matter, including the procedure and the fundamentals set in this law -- and it may not be a thing -- are two separate issues.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0131par0309	Mr. President, we don't have a comma situation. In the field, the term ▪ also means the comma.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0132par0310	It doesn't matter, the registered value is registered wherever it is.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0130par0311	We think it would be appropriate for him to be considered as a separate sentence, as a separate word, provided that it is done in accordance with the proper and fundamentals -- comma -- through registered values.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0132par0312	So you eliminate some of the conditions on the corporate tax and reduce them to just a registered value, which is what that means.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0133par0313	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0134par0314	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to the comma, part of my criticism is being met, but the second issue I'm talking about is still in the middle. The second issue was: A number of companies are given the exception of the institutional tax tax, even though it did not fully comply with the provisions of the Tax Act concerning division. That's not true. There are some other conditions in Article 19 of the Tax Act that regulates division. I read one of these on the stand, and I don't want to repeat it here. For example, if the shares of the non-moving and shared shareholders are given to the incumbent partners, the transfer of debts related to the moving and participating shares is mandatory. The decision must be added as a condition. This isn't added. It's an exemption. Even if it doesn't fit, the institution will benefit from the exception of the tax. I've suggested that we not only give the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources the power to determine the procedures and foundations to address this problem, but to the Ministry of Finance and Energy and Natural Resources. In the event that the finance is written here, the Finance Ministry will surely place the provisions that are appropriate to this clause from the Tax of Institutions within the rules within the rules and foundations. Again, the motion, for example, regulates the transfer over a registered value, but requires that it be placed as the same capital over the registered value of the Law on Taxes. If the same capital can't be put into the registered value, it can't be called division if it's just a revolution. I repeat: part of the problem is solved by comma, but the main problem remains. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0135par0319	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Government, what do you think, sir?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0136par0321	We agree with this motion, and with that correction, we agree with this motion.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0135par0322	With the comma?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0136par0323	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0137par0324	Mr. President, the motions to correct the motion are in order. Therefore, the commissioner should make a motion, not a commission.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0135par0325	Yes, we've asked the motion owners, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0138par0326	Sir, we're joining the comma, and we want the alibi read.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0139par0327	Mrs. Ayþe Nur, you have to put the comma in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0135par0328	Yes, the motion is in, sir. This clause aims to implement tax-free division procedures, which should be carried out in parallel with the obligation to conduct distribution and retail sales activities under separate corporate personalities. Yes, with this amendment, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, since the motion adopted earlier has been completely changed, I am removing the other two motions for amendments to this clause from the process. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 9 of Law 2-4628 has been changed as follows. The price equivalence mechanism, which has been set up by the Institution to protect or protect the price differences that exist due to the cost differences between distribution zones, is implemented until 31/12/2015. All public and private distribution companies and retail sales companies established under Article 3's first joke (c) bend (3) are involved in the price equivalence mechanism. Until 31/12/2015, national tariffs are based on the requirements of national tariffs and cross-subsidies are implemented on national tariffs. The national tariff is prepared by the Institution and is implemented by the board's approval. Until 31/12/2015, all accounts are kept by the relevant legislation. The Council of Ministers is authorized to extend the terms of this clause for up to five years. On behalf of groups on the matter, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP. Mr. Flagtutan, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0140par0345	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2 of the Law Against the Law on Electrical Marketing and Special Expension Tax Act. I salute your high council. Before I begin, I especially want to share with you some things about Artvin. Artvin, you know, is a city that has hydropower plants built on its rivers, and they're trying to mine in its mountains, and other than that, they're having trouble with the HES. When all projects related to the energy production of this city are finished, it is a city that has developed a major project that alone can meet 10 per cent of Turkey's energy needs, but unfortunately most of the problems in Turkey's energy-related Turkey are happening in Artvin. I especially want to share this: In the last few months, especially recently, there's been a tremendous swelling in the electric bills. We're getting big problems from all our citizens. And Mr. Secretary, I've asked you specifically in writing, and I want to talk about this: energy distribution companies are constantly changing the deadlines of the bills, especially for months. So in the last few months, Artvin -- I've asked in writing -- there are great numbers in the opening-off fees, over 300 percent, over 500. This is mainly because our retired citizens are instructing the banks regarding the deadlines for electricity, but energy distribution companies change their deadlines for some months, some months, some months, some months, 24. Minister, if this is the case with Artvin, it is so in many parts of Turkey. I'd like to point out that it's a serious problem. That's what I said, and with your signature, that's the problem. Other than that, there's one other thing we'd like to share. Since yesterday, you've seen lawmakers on TV. Look, even though we, as the city of tourism and nature, have proposed this concept as an education city, unfortunately there is an Artvin identity that is being put before Turkey with the identity of a new energy city, which is being tried to change. In Artvin, there is a valley in Arhavi district of Artvin, called the Kamilet Valley. I want all my congressman friends to see this valley. Without seeing this valley, without traveling through this valley, without traveling through this valley, we can't tell Parliament what a hydropower plant there is, nor can we tell the public what a murder it is. This valley is a valley for my dear friends: the valley is indeed on the part of Joseph, and on the side of Arhabi, but on the side of Arhavi is a Menchuna Falls on the side of this valley. Kamilet Valley, a virgin valley. I also saw Switzerland. Before I could see it, I'd say Artvin looks like Switzerland. But when I saw Switzerland, I said that Switzerland looked like Artvin. Geography like that. The only thing I can tell you about this valley is that in the valley there is flowing water. In Ankara, in the capital of the republic, in Istanbul, in the cities, unfortunately, we don't drink from the tap, but I went to the valley, where the villagers, our citizens, the trout, created the opportunity to drink water from the stream, and we drank water from it. So I'd like to share with you an interesting example of how important that stream is, how clean and beautiful it is. Now, there's also Menchuna Falls on this valley. This Menchuna Falls is a magnificent waterfall that flows from about 80 meters [80 m], a place that has been opened to tourism, which has previously been -- about ten years -- and has been discovered. The Kamilet Valley is a value in itself; I want you to see the endemic life within it, the natural life. So we insist that there are hydropower plants elsewhere, that you can get electricity by planning a regional basin, but it's not possible for us to accept slaughter in a paradise like this. I'd like to say this from here, as a cry for the people there, my dear friends. Look, I'm describing Artvin as Artvin, a city that is bound by his republic; a city that does not discuss his state, his nation, his flag; it never discusss the national identity values of the republic. I'm saying that any political thinking comes from our geography, but Artvin's not the only traitor. I insist that there is no way in Artvin that the Artvins have ever faced their state, their nation, and they will not remain, but I don't know if you've seen the news that was in the TV, the press, the newspapers yesterday. We insisted on it. Look, Mr. Secretary, when do thieves report theft? They'll bring it in at night. I mean, they go at night, they usually steal things -- I've been a lawyer for years -- they usually go at night, steal things from someone's house, they always have nighttimes. Look, they've made a public announcement that the company that's going to be working there will start yesterday morning. And all those people out there... now, I'll show you the pictures in a little while. In those photographs, I'm going to share with you an interesting example of who's against the local construction, the hydropower plant. But once the concerns about the work of this firm came out... that was yesterday morning at 9:00 a.m., this study would begin. Do you know who the Arhavians saw when they went there at nine o'clock in the morning? They saw the government's gendarme, they saw the state's law enforcement forces. They thought they'd stop working there. Turns out, at 1:30 a.m., the company that was going to build the hydropower plant put all the business machines in the valley. There's a road in the valley that only one car will cross, and the gendarmes cut it off, and they have gases in their hands, and they say, "Don't come near us, we'll squeeze you." They're probably comparing the Black Sea somewhere else or looking at the Black Sea in some other way. In the Black Sea region, you can't bring the state against the nation in any way, my dear friends. However, despite this painting, our people have been discreet there, and they have not faced the gendarme in this painting for their respect for the state, but I would like to express that we should put aside our political identities. I'm speaking to all of my fellow MPs, my friends in Justice and Development Party, CHP, my friends in the other group in the PKK: you need to come and see how grave the slaughter was, how grave the murder was, how grave the painting was. You can't see how big this painting is without seeing that promise. Look, my dear friends, when our friends see this painting is big, how grave it is, from every political party, every political party, I'm showing you, if they take a picture of us, I want all of Turkey to see it. There is no such painting anywhere in Turkey. Here's the thing about this painting: it's July 12th. We don't want any of them in the Arhavi Kamilet Valley. Who are they in this photograph, my dear friends in the AKP group? Arhavi is the AKP's Mayor, Arhavi is the AKP's District Chairman, Arhavi is the Republican People's Party Chair, Arhavi is the National Movement Party Chair, there are other political parties, all of them. Minister, you see here, they're all against it. Look, I don't want to say this about another valley, but God exists, you must see that valley. It's a big murder. He's in the valley. There are families there who run bungalows in the local sense. I don't know of a second region in Turkey that is so perfect that tourism can see. Look, there are many areas in Artvin, a Macahel Valley is one of the most important areas, but as I said, it's equivalent to getting dozers in the Kamilet Valley, bringing in the business machines, bringing in the ladle, bringing in those industrial species, destroying the flora and fauna, that's murder, Mr. Minister. So if we can stop the painting here, if we can stop the destruction there, I believe we've done a great favor for both our country and future generations. So at this point, our citizens have applied to many authorities, to many places, to relevant authorities, but as of yesterday, all their applications have failed. I received hundreds of faxes yesterday from Arhavi, and I would like to share one with the Supreme Assembly. This is exactly what the fax says to me, Mr. Secretary: In the Kamilet Valley of Arhavi district, while the construction plan has not yet been approved, businesses are requested to be introduced to the Stone to build the HES Project. Applications have been officially made to the Arhavi Co-ordinatorship, Artvin Special Administration General Secretary-General and Artvin Governorate that the construction of the road construction plan cannot be launched until the construction plan has been approved. Two of the most interesting things -- in the middle of the night last night, the machinery entered the beautiful valley of the world and acted as if it were an occupational force. If they're doing the right thing, why are they working late at night like a thief? The people of Asia Minor have always been hospitable. Its nature has taught them these values, like lace, for generations. We are skilled at distinguishing between the good guests of the day and the cunning destroyers of the middle of the night from what we have seen in other valleys over the years and from our strong Anatolian intuitions. We hope you share those insights. We'd like your attention, and we'd like your support in this matter. I'm here, from Mustafa Kemal's Assembly, from his temple, from his great Parliament, to his natural friends all over Turkey: a murder is being committed in the Kamilet Valley. We all have to say stop this murder. Energy is very important, it's a big problem for our external addiction, for our future, but we can get energy in other ways. We, Artvini, sacrifice land, mountains in a sense to energy, we sacrifice our rivers, but this is our beauty, so to some extent, please don't let it go from here. I believe that if we want to save Kamilet Valley, we must take it to the national park limits. I draw the attention of the High Council, and salute your high council and all who listen to me. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0141par0364	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Second speech on behalf of the groups, Mr. Necati Özensoy on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, is a member of the Union. Mr. Özensoy, please. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0142par0369	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 2 of Law 393. I salute you all. This article also envisions a change in the interim nineth amendment to the extension of the price equivalence mechanism by 2015. Of course, before that, we tried to express as much as our language has to do with issues related to Turkey's problems in both the General Assembly and the General Assembly on issues related to the energy budget or energy issues. One of the biggest problems of the citizen's life, one of the things that has been speculated on most, is that electricity has been added to the missing number of illegals and bills. These are sometimes discussed in courts, where courts, some subscribers, return these payments. However, while answering some questions here, the minister's answers also came with some really sad answers. For example, a friend of ours said: have there been areas in which the number of fugitives rose after certain years? He said, "Yes, Mr. Secretary." There he mentioned that the PKK was using electricity illegally with instructions. Of course, that's something that's really sad. So, that means the PKK has somehow assigned its authority over the state, which has come out of the Minister's statement. Now, I, Mr. Secretary, will ask the Minister -- even though my friends have expressed them here -- with the documents of TEDASH, according to the information that TEDAS gave us. I asked that question in the budget, I asked it in the commission, but there was no answer from the Minister. Look, the missing fugitive rates dropped to 14.4 in 2008, but now there are 16.8 missing fugitives. Now, I'm going to ask you again: have we had some technological difficulties in 2008, or have we had some changes in our lines, or haven't we made the necessary investments, or why have the missing fugitive rates increased by almost 2.5 percent? The answer to that is both citizen and myself. But, with some of the developments that I've come up with, I've got my own ideas about why there are more missing fugitives, and I'm going to try to introduce them myself. Look, I'm going to tell you from the Court reports of 2011 again from the figures here concerning the inspection of TEDAS. In 2010, Tigris EDAŞ lost the number of fugitives reached 71.4 in 2011, which is the area the Minister mentioned. I mean, Mr. Secretary just gave me his alibi. Again, Lake Van has descended from 57.2 to 52.1 in EDAŞ, and this is partly within the areas mentioned by the Minister, but not in the areas where a lot of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) rule, this is Lake Van EDAŞ. Again, most importantly, I would like to say from these figures that Bosporus EDAŞ has 10.9 missing fugitives in 2010. In 2011, a year later, it went up to 12.9. Now, I'm asking Mr. Minister: Is the PKK taking control in Istanbul, or is the PKK giving instructions in Istanbul, using electricity to this citizen. These rates are rising along with instructions? Look, with an increase in Tigris EDAŞ or other regions... I mean, the increase in Istanbul by 2 per cent is an increase in nearly 10 per cent there. When we look at a province of Istanbul, which is almost 1/5 of Turkey, we look at it digitally, as subscribers, and Bosporus is part of it. So, look, one of the reasons for the rise of this missing fugitive ratio is that I would like to ask the Minister myself: in 2008, the distribution companies of TEDAS began to be treated as regional privatisation and privatisation. At first, of course, the profitable ones started to sell in some way, but when he got the bid, for example, when Bosporus EDAŞ got the bid of $2.9 billion that day, even though he came in, he was given up by those who took the tender... and, again, they had to cancel the deposits that they put there, etc., etc. Now, if Bosporus EDAŞ had given that tender in 2008, maybe less than 10.9, but less than that, starting with missing fugitives, he would have been tendered to this distribution company, and even more than that, the profit margins of that day were 2.33, but suddenly, when we got closer to the repeat of these tenders, the profit margins went up to 3.49 percent. Now, both the missing fugitive rates have gone up and the profit margins have gone up in that sense. Although both of them actually meant that this firm had a sense of value, we also found out that the figure in the privatisation of Bosporus EDAŞ, again, was offered 2.9 billion dollars at the end of last year, at the end of the year, this Bosporus EDAS was offered $1.9 billion. So, now, this -- as I've been saying -- is a lot to think about -- is that there's a lot of missing fugitives in other areas, and there's a lot to think about, you know, raising those profit margins. Mr. Secretary, I would be especially happy for my nation if he could give us a logical explanation of these missing fugitives, especially those missing fugitives, who have been growing since 2008. Again, we also see from these Court reports that there was not a very effective fight in the fight against this missing fugitive. For example, in Dicle EDAŞ, 129,812 subscribers were scanned, and 12.476 subscribers were registered, so this report corresponds to 9.6 per cent of the subscriber who was scanned. There's 96,701 invoices here, but it's interesting to collect, so the collection of 96,701 liras is only $2,978. I mean, how much did they collect? Only 3.1 per cent of the sum was collected. Now, the institution of the state that can't do this fight properly, even though I have stated that there are hundreds of transformers on a commission that have no subscribers and have no subscribers, and I've given them their documents, I've never been told what the outcome is about them. I'd like to say something other than this: again, instead of being made payback by citizens who have paid their bills because the state can't do their duty or neglect, in terms of territorial pricing, okay, don't create a price difference, but let the state cover its own guilt. Instead of subsidizing these price differences in these areas, I'd like to say that instead of making honest citizens pay for the electricity stolen by thieves, I'd like the state, the government to pay for the theft of their own negligence, the government to pay for its own budget, and I'd like to give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0143par0380	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. There's no further demands for the groups. In the name of his subjects, Mr. Feramuz Üstüm. Your Honor, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0144par0385	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the Second Amendment to the Law on Electrical Marketing Law and Special Expension Tax Law and the Law on Special Consumption Tax. On this occasion, I salute your delegation. Due to the end of the implementation period of Law 4628 in Article 9 of the temporary article 31/12/2012 and the lack of full end of sector-related transitional practices, the Price Equivalent Mechanism and National Recipe practice must be re-organised for a period of time. When reviewing the provisions of the proposed law, the requirement for the division of the production and retail activity of distribution companies under Article 4628 of the Electric Market Law on Third Amendment was found to be subject to all kinds of tax, image and mortar. For the first time, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to extend the entry date to 31/12/2015 for the use of the incentives provided by those licensed to produce and autoproducers. It is understood that an extension of secondary fuels used in the temporary production of electricity in Article 5 of the Special Consumption Tax Act is to be extended until 31/12/2015 and to be authorized by the Council of Ministers for the extension of the period. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, according to TÜİK data, our country's total import in 2011 is about 240 billion dollars, and energy imports are about 54 billion dollars, making up 22 per cent of total imports. In the same year, energy imports have an even better impact on our country's economy, considering our current deficit is 77 billion. In 2023, it is estimated that the need for electricity energy will increase by twice as much as today and will be about 500 billion kilowatts per hour. In order to reduce external dependence on energy and meet that demand, we need to double our power today. And in order for that to happen, we have to feel the need to invest energy at approximately $5 billion a year. On the other hand, I salute you all with respect to the need to be given the sensitivity and importance of energy, which is essential for our economy to grow, and to develop a sense of austerity and to use more domestic and renewable energy resources.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0145par0392	Thank you, Your Honor. Second speaker on behalf of his subjects, İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0146par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've had to take a statement to present a matter to Mr. Secretary's knowledge. I got a text, it's on the phone and now it's on the e-mail: they're talking about a problem. He is a small-scale fuel dealership in a town in the District of Yozgat Kürüçan, Turkey. After this EPDK was established, the Petroleum Market was also connected to this institution. It was conditioned to get a franchise license, and we applied immediately for a franchise license, but the license was granted four months and eleven days later. After that, we were fined for selling fuel in the process. Now, this fine was cut to both distribution companies and dealerships. I think about $714,000 for the distribution companies, $57,156 for the dealerships. And then the punishment for these distribution companies is pardoned, but these dealerships do. So it's a very serious burden, the finances are after them. It says: "Now, you can get a license in one day." Now, for four months and eleven days, the distribution companies gave it to us, and we distributed it. They say it's not illegal, it's already invoiced, it's a pardon for distribution companies in this case, but it's a matter of 3,500 franchises if the EPDK says it's a demand for the past, but it can be solved if a law comes out of parliament. They say it has something to do with the EPDK. In turn, most of our oil is rural oil, and even if you sell it, it's not worth it. It's called price. In this case, we had to shut down the oil, so we're going to the EPDK, and you have to go to the parliament. What can be done about it? Is there anything you can do about the nature of your problem and the solution? So I've requested this talk to your knowledge of the rightness of these applicants, the fact that distribution companies have avoided this punishment on this subject, but how to solve a problem such as the failure of the dealerships. Thank you very much, my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0147par0399	Thank you, Mr. Vural. There's no further demands on the matter. We're gonna do a ten-minute QA, and we have friends who hacked into the system. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu? No. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0148par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2011, it was described as 16 per cent missing and 2 per cent loss of transmission. However, as I said earlier, what is the actual loss of transmission as the average Turkey average? So it turns out it's more than 2 percent, and it's below 7 per cent. In 2012, what is the reported missing fugitive ratio, what is the rate of fulfillment? How much was collected from consumers during your governments as a cost of missing fugitives and meter reading? How much of the electricity subscribers in Manisa have been collected during your governments as a cost of missing fugitives and meter reading? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0149par0407	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0150par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, according to data from the Privatisation Administration, the sale of the Seyitömer thermal plant, which was discussed last year, in exchange for nearly five years' profit, the bid is now in the interest of five years' profit. Are you going to interfere with this sale? Will you, as the Ministry, have any initiative in cancelling this? My second question is, is there a sale of the bronze coal company and the Garp Linet Company behind it? Just a moment ago, Mr. Kütahya MP told me about your visit to the gas plant there, but he didn't say you missed the question of whether or not this place would be on sale. I'd like to learn from here: Is there a sale of Bronzebilek and GLIEST in your program? When will this happen if there is? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0151par0413	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0152par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. We ask questions, we don't get answers. I mean, it's kind of unnecessary to ask these questions, but let's ask them anyway. Now, on this Mediterranean ADAŞ 7/12/2010, Park Holdings was sold for $1 billion, 165 million, and then it was abandoned. Why was it abandoned? Three companies are worth... Later... you know, TETAS has reduced the price of electricity to 14.8%. This discount at sales prices has not been made available to consumers, but has profited over distribution companies. Despite its return to such a profitable area, why was it sold for $546 million in 2012, which had previously been sold for $1 billion 165 million, and the people who bought it had previously taken the loans of İstanbul Anatolian and Toros EDAŞ and failed to fulfill their commitments and their guarantees were registered. And I mean...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0153par0419	Mr. Young, thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0154par0421	Mr. Secretary, the public is complaining about power distribution companies. We don't know who to complain to. Would you at least consider it appropriate as a referee to assign a TEDAS officer to any distribution company that the public can reach? At least the public will be hungry, TEDASHa... at that institution in that region, a TEDAS official in that distribution area, at least listen to the public's problems. I'm telling you again, people are looking for TEDASI with wax. From this angle, he's not being audited enough. And since it's not being audited, at least it would be appropriate for the public to have a TEDAS official who's already done the job and knows it, at least as an arbitrator in distribution companies. What do you think about that?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0153par0422	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0155par0424	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, in regard to these missing fugitive rates, there is a distribution of years in the region, in the provinces, but one thing escapes attention. We received a missing fugitive rate around 25 percent. Now I'm talking about what another power does, what it doesn't do, what it doesn't mean, and what I'm talking about is what I'm doing, but...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0156par0425	There are 65% missing fugitives.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0155par0426	We now received Turkey's missing fugitive rates in 2002, about 25 per cent on average. We -- I made it clear that in my speech -- it's the Dicle region -- it's not the right thing to explain the missing fugitive ratios in Urbana, Diyarbakır, Mardin, Şırnak, Batman, and the earthquake in the vicinity of Lake Van... just by saying the earthquake. But I'll tell you this: when we leave these two areas, Turkey's missing fugitive rates are lower than the average missing fugitives of the European Union, so Turkey is doing the right thing right now, within the framework of general strategies and policies, but we need to examine those two areas as well. Among these, for example, in 2011, the Mediterranean is 8.47 per cent, Akedash is 8.17 per cent -- especially this -- one of the three distribution places I'm talking about -- 25 per cent of Aydem, 8.41 per cent of Aydem, 71 per cent of Ayedash, 72 per cent in public, 72 per cent in Firats, 1017 per cent in the Capital, 10.76 per cent -- I'm responding to the question of Alim Bey. Look, the average of two districts is pulling Turkey back around 3.5-4 points. Greenery is 7.81 percent. I've told you 21 areas. Now, friends, we will, hopefully, complete the privatisations of this region within this year, and we must surely end it. And Mr. Alim says: are you going to be able to meet these goals? I had a meeting in the area. Friends, look, please don't do this. We were in your fields, and there were crops, and we couldn't harvest. We didn't make you say anything. Please, don't plant your fields. We said, we said, live. We, for one reason or another, have expressed that we don't see reason for it, that we don't find the missing fugitive ratios right, and that they don't really want it. Now, in 18-19 regions of Turkey, you provide this, and because of the two areas, are we not going to be able to achieve the missing number of fugitives? Turkey meets missing fugitive rates as in 18-19 regions. Now, my dear friends, look, we're just about to take care of the water... and I'm especially going to take care of it myself, so I've been to Artvin's twice, but I'd like to go once again just on this occasion. I'll also discuss it with the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. There is no objection to 11 of the 12 dams in that same basin, but there is one objection. Then our citizen there is doing it for a reason, so I need to understand his motive and find out. If he was against the whole thing, we wouldn't have found him so right, but if he's against some of it, some of it, and some of it's not, and he's against only one, of course, we have to consider him, too. THE issue of the sale of TETACH and EUAS in 2011 was that it was normally sold along with bilateral contracts. In 2012, only TETAS made a bilateral contract, and the average TETAS and EUAS average was set so that the consumer average price would not change. These are the issues of an arrangement that institutions make within themselves. Now, it's about Mevlüt Bey. We're making a change in the issue of inspections so far. We have received this authority to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and we will conduct a quadruple inspection of both TEDAŞ and EPDK, as well as perhaps partly service from the members of the Energy Ministry. So far, look, we've brought 25 percent to this point, and we're able to do more, so a structure that has dropped 10 points will reduce that by another five points, that's our goal.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0157par0432	You dropped it from 20 percent, not 25 percent.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0155par0433	And I believe I won't be the one to have any more trouble with them. Another thing: Friends, don't let the water counters get stuck now. Now our friends here have spoken. Well, then, isn't that a tent? On the electric meter, please identify those who are not. We say, rightly, rightly, but this time, don't do this in the water. Here's what he says in the field right next to him: I -- excuse me -- I don't use it humblingly, I don't use it secularly, but I see people using it, so what's the difference? Government water is broke, selling electricity for money. What if we're all standing together because he's tying it to the counter? So we want to avoid injustice, that's our right reason. From that point of view, I'm saying that this needs to be reassessed.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0158par0435	Thank you, Minister, it was too late, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0155par0436	Okay, thank you. Then I'll talk about Mr. Vural next time.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0159par0438	Madam Secretary, thank you. I'm waiting for Artvin. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0160par0439	There are nine motions on the clause, but according to Article 87 of the Civil Code, the law can only submit seven motions on each clause. Lawmakers of every political party group have the right to make a motion. Under these provisions, first, I will have the first seven motions read according to the order of arrival; then I will act according to the order of violations of these motions. For the same reason, two motions issued by lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party and Republican People's Party groups are not being taken into effect. Now, I'm going to read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and recommend that the provision of the subsistence of Article 2/1059 shall be replaced by Article 2/1059 and Article 4628 in the first joke of Article 9 which has been changed to Article 4628. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and recommend that the provision of the subsistence of Article 2/1059 shall be replaced by Article 2/1059 and Article 4628 in the first joke of Article 9 which has been changed to Article 4628. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and recommend that the provision of Article 2/1059 of Law Proposal 2 and Article 4628 be replaced by Article 9 in the first joke of Article 4628. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and recommend that the provision of the subsistence of Article 2/1059 shall be replaced by Article 2/1059 and Article 4628 in the first joke of Article 9 which has been changed to Article 4628. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 393 Numbered Legislature We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 2 ▪ Article 9 of the Law has been changed in the following way. (Temporial Article 9 - The cost difference between distribution zones, which buys electricity energy through regulations, has been established in part or entirely to protect price differences, and the implementation-related issues are implemented until 31/12/2015. All public and private distribution companies and retail sales companies established under Article 3's first joke (c) bend (3) are involved in the price equivalence mechanism. Until 31/12/2015, national tariffs are based on the requirements of national tariffs and cross-subsidies are implemented on national tariffs. The national tariff is prepared by the Institution and is implemented by the board's approval. Until 31/12/2015, all accounts are kept by the relevant legislation. The Council of Ministers is in charge of extending the terms of this clause to five years." Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law 393 be removed from the Bill text. Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Necati Özensoy Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Do you agree with the motions of the same nature, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0161par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0160par0484	Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mustafa Kalaycı, MP of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0162par0489	Mr. President, I've been promised our motion to remove the 2nd amendment from the draft text of Bill 393, which has been discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, the regulation with this clause is incompatible with the procedure of the law because the law is subject to the notification issued by the EPDK, and therefore, the notification is being passed as an EPDK lawmaker. This invalid arrangement, which is unconstitutional, must be corrected. With this arrangement, the implementation of the price equivalence mechanism and cross-subsidies on the national tariff until 31/12/2015, and giving the Council of Ministers a five-year extension means eight more years of unfairly repayment of the missing fugitive costs. Someone's been using electricity illegally, and innocent citizens are paying the bill for it. Why are you making a citizen pay for someone else's theft? What right do you get from a citizen to pay for electricity he doesn't use? This practice is incompatible with the principles of right and self - respect. What's the motive? Don't let the companies ruin it, don't let the companies fail! As for the AKP government, companies, conglomerates, bosses, allies, they make all kinds of conveniences, they immediately make laws, but when it comes to employees, pensioners, shopkeepers and farmers, they turn their backs on them. Look, we've made a motion as a nationalist movement party to add a clause to this law, but we're told it won't be processed. Mr. Secretary, it's not about your ministry, but it's a matter of the government's urgency and urgency that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must address. I'll explain the content of the motion. I'll appeal to your consciences to include him in the bill. The issue -- and my friends just brought it up -- is that underground wells have to be put up with measurements, and the farmer gets 200 tons of water quotas. The time appointed by Law 167 expires on 25 January 2013. Those who have not built a measuring device in their wells by this date will be revoked and their wells and expenses will be paid off by its owners. There's also an administrative fine. Mr. Secretary, this is not exactly the same as illegal electricity use. There are no conditions here yet. This practice will cause a great deal of damage to farmers. Even the cost of measuring equipment brings an important financial burden to farmers. With this practice, it will remain in the farmer's farm, and the country's agriculture will be severely damaged. There are no conditions for this application yet. That's why we've proposed law and motion as the National Movement Party to extend the statute. I hope you won't deny your support for adding this proposal to the bill, considering the condition of the farmer. 200 tons of quotas coming into the water. Reason, prevention, savings. With this practice, a farmer planting wheat will be able to plant 40 percent of the field, 35 per cent of the sunflower and beans, 30 per cent of the sugar beets and corn planters, and only 20% of the farmers will be able to plant clover. How will the farmer grow crops with this amount of water? You're going to import all kinds of crops? What about livestock? How do you grow corn, clover, food plants that consume a lot of water? Look at what you're thinking, we're already importing animals. * Pancar also consumes a lot of water. Let's close the sugar mills, and don't make beets. What about the farmer? Of course, according to the AKP government, the farmer will take his mother with him. The farmer can't even leave his mother anymore because the AKP government has failed the farmer. The farmer and the peasant are devastated in the agricultural city of Konya. My countrymen from the district of Jahhanbeyli say: "Let the Minister of Agriculture, who says that the farmer's condition is good, come here, let us give him all the space he wants for free, let him work as a farmer, let him see the truth, let him see the truth, let him live." By the way, they're asking why the wheat bonus hasn't been paid yet. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0163par0501	Mr. Tin Man, thank you. Investments aimed at renovating power distribution lines in Turkey have not been made in particularly Southeast Anatolian provinces. The loss of electricity is higher than in other areas as a result of the failure of these distribution infrastructures. As electricity distribution began to privatise, the cost-based billing arrangements of companies resulted in a rather unfair picture, and such practices were cancelled by court decisions. The losses were especially due to lack of infrastructure investments, while the national level of this loss has led to unfair speculation. The application for national tariffs is provided with the 2nd article of the bill. However, this approach does not include incentive for infrastructure investments, as it will only make privatisations more attractive. Today, however, the biggest problem in Southeast provinces is the constant power outages. This change aims to evolve only to a new arrangement that prioritizes public interest in the provision of capital. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 393 Numbered Legislature We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends Article 2-4628 of the Act has been changed in the following way. ==Early life==Additional Article 9-Climate 9-Security is established in part or entirely to protect consumers from the price differences between distribution zones due to their electricity energy purchases via temporary tariffs, and the implementation-related issues are implemented until 31/12/2015. All public and private distribution companies and retail sales companies established under Article 3's first joke (c) bend (3) are involved in the price equivalence mechanism. Until 31/12/2015, national tariffs are based on the requirements of national tariffs and cross-subsidies are implemented on national tariffs. The national tariff is prepared by the Institution and is implemented by the board's approval. Until 31/12/2015, all accounts are kept by the relevant legislation. The Council of Ministers is in charge of extending the terms of this clause to five years." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0164par0515	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0163par0516	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0165par0517	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0163par0518	Mr. Aslanoglu, the motive, who will speak?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0166par0519	Mr. Yellowhead, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0163par0520	Here you are, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Çanakkale MP.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0167par0521	Mr. President, I've been given a speech on the proposed amendment to the current Electric Market Law and the Amendment to the Amendment to the Special Consumption Tax Act. Now, I really believe that the last ten years of the AKP should be looked at a little bit about energy. Turkey's energy demand has grown by close to 42% in the last decade, but Turkey's money for importing energy resources has increased by 548.9% due to rising energy prices. Turkey's energy import of $8.3 billion in 2001 found $54.1 billion in 2011. Turkey's net energy imports bill rose by 502.07 per cent, reaching $48 billion. Turkey's $105 billion record of foreign trade deficits in 2011 constitutes a 44.9 per cent deficit in energy trade. Our country has a potential of a hydropower plant capable of producing 140 billion kilowatts of electricity annually, and nearly 40 percent of that potential has been activated. The streams are not destined to enrich three or five allies by restricting the air and the field with algebraic pipes and dozens of regulators. Our unactivated hydroelectric potential is 100 billion kilowatts, wind 120 billion kilowatts, sun 380 billion kilowatts, geothermal 12 billion kilowatts, biomass to contribute 35 billion kilowatts per hour. We need to focus more on that than on a fragile, expensive, dependent energy. About a decade ago, when the AKP government was in power, external dependency -- 66.9 per cent -- rose to 72.04 per cent, while electricity prices rose to 105.02 per cent; coal increased to 164.5%; natural gas prices rose 49.4 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a great deal of good to be said here. First of all, the easiest method in Turkey is to raise prices, but we see that the world's missing fugitives are considered 2 per cent and 4 per cent, while we have increased to 17 per cent in 2008 to 18 per cent in 2012, with 14 per cent in 2008, 15 per cent fugitives. First of all, 2% and 4%. Why is this measure not taken, especially with an assumption that costs and prices will be brought down, and that any thermal plant in particular, any production, can destroy nature, destroy our natural resources? For ten years, we've been running away from the easy way. What is it? Give it to me, it's a do-it-do model. In this model, I'd like to ask the Minister, for example in Çanakkale, to say to anyone who comes in front of him, buy your land, apply to me. Convince the public, we'll let them build a plant. Is there no criteria for that? Doesn't this country have value emissions? In this country, even though the Kazdağs of Çanakkale, the fruits of the Plain of Biga, where there is cheese, milk, animalism in this country, how can you give so much thermal power plant by criteria? Turkey currently has a single... - Our Çanakkale district in Çankale -- the thermal plant alone fills the emissions volume -- has been completed in 10 times this size -- and more than that, they have applications to be allowed to be given 10 times more than that. What's the catch? In Turkey, the goal of all companies towards the energy market in abundance is that there are four items at the head of all of them, which is profitability. Everyone's heading for the energy market, everyone's at the Ministry of Energy's door. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking: Why are we getting power from the private sector when it's not run for six months, including the bell, which is now part of privatisation? Dear friends, on this occasion, I would like to point out that the AKP has failed in energy policies, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0168par0529	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now that the four motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and recommend that the provision of Article 2/1059 of Law Proposal 2 and Article 4628 be replaced by Article 9 in the first joke of Article 4628. The signatures of other proposals are: Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0169par0546	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0170par0547	I don't know why they're all...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0168par0548	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The law has been corrected in accordance with the spelling technique. I submit the motions to your votes together: those who agree... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The first joke of Article No. 3-4628 (c) was changed to the term "31/12/2012" (31/12/2012) and the same sentence was added to me. The Council of Ministers is in charge of extending the period under this dam for up to five years. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Mr. Kamer Yüçün MP Tunceli... Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0171par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 3rd amendment to the Power Market Law, 393 rows, the Power Market Law, and the amendment to the Special Exposure Tax Act. The essence of this article is this: The First Amendment (c) of Article 14 of Law No. 4628 has been changed to (31/12/2012) and the following sentence has been added to me: The Council of Ministers is authorized to extend the period for up to five years. Now, the joke of Article 4628 of Act 14 (c) is this: production and incentives are provided to people with autoroductor licenses who are going to be processed up to date 31/12/12/2012: 1) Production facilities will be reduced by 50 per cent of the system's use of the system system for five years starting with the start date. 2) During the investment period of production facilities, transactions and regulations related to production facilities are unique to stamp tax and mortar. Now, the valued lawmakers, in fact, bring in a number of laws that are so effeminate. It's not clear what they mean by these laws. It's already an inadequate Council of Ministers, an inadequate government, and they're not responding to any of the words spoken here. So, in fact, Turkey is facing a political staff, a chaos that is truly ineffective, bringing the future of the country into darkness. It's hard to fight against such a staff. Now, guys, look, last semester, electricity prices, consumer prices were raised by 32 percent, natural gas prices increased by around 18 percent. Now, this year, inflation figures have been announced, 6%. What kind of nonsense is that? So no security was left in a government institution along with the AKP. You're going to do 32 percent in electricity, you're going to increase in natural gas, you're going to increase in oil, and then inflation is going to be 6 percent. What logic, what mind, what conscience would accept the truth? For one thing, it's not true. Again, of course, the AKP has certain companies, distribution companies. These distribution companies had trillions of dollars in cash in their safes when they were being handed over to some of them, friends, trillions of dollars in distribution companies. trillions of lira in the vaults of these distribution companies, the government didn't buy it, they gave it to distribution companies. Again, last semester, the TEDAS agency sold electricity at 14.8 per cent of the price of electricity sales. Normally, this subjectation would have to go back to the consumer, wouldn't it? It doesn't. Who's he staying with? He's staying at the distribution firms. Who are the distributors? They're their own people. Now, guys, look, 74.5 billion kilowatts of electricity was consumed in 2011. This one has 3.7 cents per kilowatt. Do you know what this is worth? 2.3 quadrillion liras. Whose pocket did $2.3 quadrillion go to? On the one hand, the bills are high, and after that, some distributors went into the pockets of the companies because they had close ties with the distributor firms, the AKP. Now, friends, look, here's the Mediterranean company EDAŞ, on 7/12/2010, the Park Holdings were given $1 billion 165 million. And then, you know, this year, they've had these tenzilates, and there's TEDAS lowering sales prices. And trust... Sir, there's a big... They've come out, we've become a very reliable economy. They said that Turkey has become a very reliable economy. They said that our reputation has risen on the international level. It's supposed to come in hot money, so it's sold to Park Holdings for $1 billion, 165 million -- and I'm not telling them -- this Mediterranean EDAS, which was sold to Kolin-Cengiz and Limak companies this year for $546 million. Well, you sold them to a company this big a year ago. Then this Kolin - Limak took the Toros, took the distribution companies on the Anatolian side of Istanbul, didn't pay for them, and their guarantees were recorded. So, how come you're giving these companies the same thing again? So you see, my friends, what a prudish mentality it is. Now, dear lawmakers, I've just asked, of course, Mr. Taner is not responding, or he doesn't know enough. Now, he jumped on a plane to northern Iraq, and they didn't land his plane, and he came back, and he went to Kayseri. Look, this movement is an insult to the state of the Republic of Turkey as much as to the Turkish army being put in a bag over its head. Now, folks, a minister of the Republic of Turkey is going to fly to a state and that state is not going to land that plane, and why is that? That government, that plane... Now, look, Mr. Recep has recently made an opening. Now, if you always connect these events, it looks like Barzani and Maliki will go to war. Now, America says, "Yahu, you go to war next to Barzani, and then I'll get you to use the oil in Northern Iraq. This is a fantasy product, of course, but of course, Mr. Obama trusts it because he doesn't break his word, but of course it's a great price for Turkey, because I believe that the recent openings are due to this, because there's no real power, there's no serious political staff, there's no real political staff. So if you're going to Erbil, as Minister of Energy, why don't you go to Baghdad and go to Erbil? Normally, in a state policy, a state plane goes somewhere -- so when you go -- goes to the capital of the state. Then, we had a red line, and according to these lines, we were protecting all of Iraq. If the plane of the Republic of Turkey is going to another region that's about to declare independence and not the capital of that country, then you've given up those red lines. So you don't need a lot of brains, not a lot of knowledge, just a little normal mind and angels to figure it out. Now, valuable lawmakers, I mean, wherever we call it, there's really no place as corrupt and out of control as this Department of Energy has ever been. All inspections have been removed. Really, what's being given, what's being done... Guys, look, at the price of an electric kilowatts, 3.7 cents is a tenzilate in one year, so it's worth 2 quadrillion dollars in 2011. I mean, what a big number he's playing on a small thing. Then when they gave these power distribution companies these distribution sites, they reset everything. They brought it with government money, renovated the facilities, relieved the workers, assigned them to places, paid their severance pay, handed it over to them at zero. And also, of course, when you look at their contracts, you give them a lot of money as a government because of these missing and fugitives. But such an irresponsible government brings the government's money, the citizens' money, gives them to them, and then the price of electricity goes up, there's no control. Thus, we face such a dilemma. Today, now, in his speech, Erdogan says that Mr. President-in-Chief says that these are journalists. He says that they are murderers. That's not what our President-General said. Recep, I'm asking you: Ergün Poyraz wrote a book about Erdoğan and Abdullah Gülle - the children of Moses. Is this a writer or not? This person has been in prison for eight years, eight years. Why is he in there? He's still not going to trial. So, which one of you accepts the conscience? Why has Ergun Poyraz been locked up for eight years, and still no trial? What is it? My lord, Abdullah Gül/le Tayyip has written Erdogan's decree. These are the children of my master Moses. He wrote down where they came from. Is there a ruling group without that kind of conscience? They will question you concerning its sin, and ask you about it the day after tomorrow. I mean, it's just so much violence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're keeping a lot of innocent people inside, making threats. Anyway, we didn't have time. We'll talk about something else again.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0172par0580	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, on behalf of the groups, the second speaker is on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0173par0584	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Party of Movement on Article 3 of Law Proposal 393. I hereby salute your high council. It includes an arrangement for the extension of incentives to people who invest in energy production by the end of 2012 until 2015. So in this case, of course, in the interest of supporting this sector, we think it's a fair offer. However, as the Minister explained his views on the law, Turkey has said that as of today it does not have a supply security problem. Mr. Secretary, if there were no problems with supply security, you wouldn't have asked the Council of Ministers to extend the provision for another three years today, after which it would have ended in late 2012, if it hadn't been for the end of 2008. We need to re-detect this once. Turkey's energy supply problem remains, unfortunately, and the problem is increasing day by day. On the other hand, he stated that he reduced the number of missing fugitives to 17 per cent when he started working. Mr. Secretary, this is the data from your agency. In 2002, when you came to work, it was 20.9 per cent, so it wasn't 25 per cent. If you don't care about the 4.1 point difference, then there's no point in us talking about anything here. So we need to fix this information. In 2000, 21.6 per cent in 2001, 21.4 per cent in 2002, 20.9 per cent in 2002, and Mr. Özensoy just expressed in 2008 -- dropped to 14.4 per cent, but began to increase quickly, with the privatisation of electricity distribution companies. Then there's a problem here, Mr. Secretary, there's a problem with these privatisations. We need to analyze this problem well. We will meet these goals, which I have just expressed at the heart of this tribulation, and I believe in your sincerity, and in your good intentions. I say, "God will keep your word." But it obviously won't. If you have only been able to lower your value by 20.9 per cent after ten years, that is not 7 per cent in two years from 17 per cent to 10 per cent. You can't make anyone believe that. Let's discuss the real numbers, and let's think about this sector more accurately together. I have to make this correction. You've used the word 25 percent in many places before, even on the website of your ministry, but that's not true. That's 21 percent, 20.9%. So when you convert those 4 points into money, it's worth at least $8 billion. If you see $8 billion less for Turkey, less for this sector, no promises, but we see together what this country is selling to earn $8 billion. You shouldn't be talking about the privatisation you're bragging about today against the two-year income of the Seyitömer thermal power plant and the coal company, which you're bragging about for 4 billion TL. So it is our duty to speak these figures correctly and inform the High Assembly correctly, especially the ministers' much more important task. We're not supposed to present any numbers to the public by misleading them or reading them backwards. Dear lawmakers, there's a problem with these privatisations. We need to see this problem well. See, Bosporus Electric Dispersion could not be privatized for 2.99 billion TL in 2010. Offers were made, then they gave up. Two years have passed, and when it is privatized for 1,96 billion TL, we try to bring it to the public as a good privatisation. That's not true. Why has there been more than $1 billion decline in this industry in two years, and we need to see this through? And that's because you're equally reflective on the distribution companies, the electricity that other people are using illegally. We can't end these privatisations right. In other words, you've been privatizing the Hamitabat Electricity Productions Facility, where you started the first time, you haven't been able to conclude. And then you changed the model, and I was sad to listen, and a valuable member of my own science is just trying to talk about a new model. Dear Congressman, this is the model you're trying to present, the model of the privatisation of the facility of years in your county, which you are now a member of. There's no point in defending it like we're doing good here. Mr. Secretary visited that facility, welcome, brought pleasure, spent a lovely evening there with our New Year's Eve workers. I want to say I'm glad, but he didn't answer the workers' cries, he blocked his ear. He just spent a really cute night taking some people from the administration into his group, but the real workers weren't taken to the facility where they worked. Minister, you know that. Now, if your daughter-in-law is honest about this facility, and we are able to do this facility, and we are going to do the Tungbilek plant and Garp Lineit Enterprises, and if she holds the model that we've tried at Seyitömer, she won't react to us like one of the most voting provinces, Kütahya, Mugla, but if we can do this privatisation, then we've put Tunçbilek on the line. I have to say this from this council bench. You can be sure of that, Mr. Secretary, that he will have a very serious reaction to this. There's 3,000 people standing right now, working there thinking about tomorrow. Take into account 15,000 of these with their family, and the store of Kütahya... 25 thousand people, if you see them together recently, in the battle of bread in the Seyitömer mountains, don't be surprised. You went to Bronzebilek, but you didn't go to Seyitömer because the privatisation process continued. There aren't many miles between these two businesses, and I wish you'd visited it and explained the truth to our people who worked at Seyitömer, but you didn't explain it, you didn't go, you chose not to go. Now, I'm calling to the Congressman here, and I can't see it, but I'm sure he'll review the transcripts: Mr. Congressman, you just mentioned a model. This model is a model of the sale of a facility where thousands of people eat bread with fancy words. Now, until May, the similar model is carried around in public and in the mouth of the Ministry bureaucrats, who claim to be sold with the basin of the Tunçbilek Termic Plant, and the GLI coal company. I want to hear from Mr. Secretary that there is no such model in his mouth. We will not sell it. We will sell it. I want to hear it from here. Now, once again, I'd like to make a point about this missing fugitive. Minister, you can't commit the same sin as 75 million on a national scale. The Osmangazi power distribution business is today a distribution company with the lowest number of missing fugitives among 21 distribution companies. It includes the area of my science. Now, the day that a citizen in my science lost power or was late paying the electricity fee, the next day the power went out, but the officers who read the meter can't go there in Diyarbakır. If the PKK's terrorist organization says to pay for electricity here, we need to take a precaution, we need to find a solution. We can't solve this by spreading the fugitive to everyone and hiding it in the bills. That's for you to find this solution, we all have to find it. Come, honestly, we won't distribute coal, we'll pay for electricity for the citizen in that area. Say, "It'll be more honest." But to hide the bills, to extend the National Recipe, to camouflage it is a great injustice to this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For him, we find the extension of incentives in this law to be positive, but in a moment -- our motion will come -- we find it inadequate. I hope you'll vote even more to support it. I wish you all the best again.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0174par0597	Thank you, Mr. Light. On behalf of the groups, there is no further demand for the third article. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Recai Berber, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0175par0602	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to the 393 Power Market Act and the Special Consumption Tax Act. Our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has been producing alternative projects to imported energy, especially in recent years, and with developments in this area, reducing the share of natural gas in energy production. The most recent development in this area would also be the establishment of facilities to produce synthetic gas from coal in Soma (Seyitömer) in Soma (Soma), Syedömer (Seyitömer). However, the search for alternative energy sources must continue by increasing further. The regulation of the electricity market envisions the separation of production, distribution and retail sales activities. Dear lawmakers, we're only discussing some of the articles of this law, the electricity market. In the coming days, in the Commission of Energy and Industry, the original energy market, the entire regulation of the electricity market, the original law will be discussed there, and in the event that the production, distribution and retail sales phases are separate activities, we will have new regulations for an Electric Market Law that will make the market work more competitive, more efficient. Dear lawmakers, the private sector's power plants only had 24 per cent of production ten years ago, until 2015, our Energy Ministry aims to increase its output by 75 per cent. For this, the transition process in this regard, especially the arrangements made during this transition process, is extremely important. During this transition, the law on the energy market in England has been changed nine times. At the same time, energy production, distribution and marketing companies will contribute to the successful initiatives of the private sector and further lowering costs and turning them into a truly competitive and efficient free market. Regarding alternative energy, our Ministry provides all kinds of support, especially with the guarantees and prices of purchase in renewable energy. In the wind, in the sun, in geothermal, there are ten years of recycling guarantees. The Ministry of Energy -- we've heard from Mr. Minister here again -- is being heavily carried out by 2023, its efforts to fully expose our potential for domestic lignite, stone coal, oil and natural gas. Our Minister has made a serious attempt to realise our linyite reserve, which has reached 17,000 megawatts in the coming days. I would like to point out here that we have a total initiative of the private sector and a 4.67-cent renaissance share per kilowatt hour, with a total private sector of coal being evaluated and a minimum 450 megawatt plant, especially our region, the West Anatolian, where energy consumption is densely concentrated. By the way, of course, I think it would be appropriate for our ministry to be supported not only by its own redevance, but also by a guarantee of purchase at a price under the highest cost of natural gas production in electricity production, so that the coal fields in the private sector can be assessed. What is brought in in this article, dear friends, is not just supply security, as it is said, but if we don't extend the incentives that end here at 31/12/2012, the costs in the delivery system will also come from here, especially in the way of electricity costs and the cost of our industry, our final consumer. So this is a cost problem beyond supply security. So with the change we make with this third article, we extend these incentives until 2015, and then, frankly, we authorize the Council of Ministers for another five years. Not just the cost of transmission, but also the exception of these facilities -- including those who will be built after that -- to stamp taxes and mortars. Dear friends, this law is very urgent and important... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you the best of luck to both our markets and our nation at the same time, and thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0176par0616	Thank you, Mr. Barber. On behalf of him, the second speaker is Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Mr. Tin Man, here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0177par0620	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by my person on Article 3 of the Law Bill 393 that is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. In the interim 14th article, added to Power Market Law No. 9 July 2008 and 5784 to Article 4628, 50 per cent reduction of the system's use of the delivery system for companies with autoproducer licenses to be in operation by the end of 2012, the processing of production facilities and the exception of papers from the stamp tax and mortar during the investment period. The reason offered by the AKP government for this arrangement is the issue of facilitating investments by encouraging production facilities for a period of time to facilitate production to ensure increased demand for electricity energy and the maximum use of the current capacity to ensure supply security by 2013 and to create the necessary supply capacity with sufficient backup. However, the application for exemption, which ended with Article 3/12/2012, is extended until 31/12/2015, and the Council of Ministers is authorized to extend it to five years. Thus, this arrangement has made it clear that the AKP government has failed to reach its goals in eliminating the power supply deficit and providing supply security. Precious lawmakers have been announced in 2011 by the EPDK for the access capacity of transformer centers and license applications for solar power-based power production facilities that will be connected to the transmission system until 31/12/2013. According to this, 92 megawatts of 600 megawatts total capacity have been given to the province of Konya in two regions. On the other hand, the Council of Ministers issued in the Official Gazette of September 8, 2012, and the Karapınar Energy Initiative, a 60m-square-square-foot area in Karapınar district of Konya Province, have been declared. According to the KOP Regional Development Administration's report, this area reserved for the Karapınar Energy Development Industry District has the capacity to generate 30 times the power capacity of the 92 megawatt GES, which was allocated by the end of 2013, with 2.760 megawatts of electricity. With this reputation, the disorganisation of energy capacity allocations in sub-continental areas across the province of Iconium of the EPDK will result in an irregular, fragmented energy production in the sub-continental area of the transformer, which will result in an economical, non-integrated structure problem, such as transmission, distribution, and industrial areas, except for logic. This will also affect animalism, agricultural production, and the environment. The first place in the GES allocation is that the province of Iconia is an important step towards becoming an energy center in our region. However, it is important that the well-run process on areas licensed in GES investments is very important in terms of the areas of mera and therefore not being negatively affected by agricultural and animal activities in our province. Therefore, special incentives should be put into place for investments and production in areas declared an energy-related industrial region first. Otherwise, the region has no meaning. Mr. Secretary, has the Council of Ministers declared the Karapınar Energy Development Zone as a figure of speech? Even if the EPDK increases its capacity for the province of Iconia by 30 times, there is sufficient GES space in the Karapinar Industrial Zone. It is clear that the cost of investment will be reduced with incentives and to-do infrastructure, and that the establishment of GESEs would be more appropriate in the area of the Karapınar District of Energy Development. At this stage, we are therefore benefiting from the increased investments in the Carpınar region, which is declared an energy reserve industry. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0178par0629	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. Congressmans, the talks on Article 3 have been completed. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer on matter in ten minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0179par0634	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, amateur sports clubs can't pay their electricity debts. Erzincanspor, for example, is in a lot of trouble. Can you do a study on forgiveness for all of this?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0178par0636	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0180par0638	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Act 341, which is on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will be discussed within the next time period. In this scope, the Australian firm Rio Tinto is known to be its only rival in the Boron Market of Eti Mine, and there are allegations that the Bill 341 rows were prepared to give Turkey's boron reserves to an Australian subsidiary for 15 years. Are these claims true? Isn't it obvious that the benefits of running Bor reserves by public hands are clear, but the meaning of starting privatisation studies means that the boron mine is being offered to the world capital holders? 72% of the world's boron reserves are in our country. In the coming years, our country has a great advantage in controlling the world's boron market. Why is the public monopoly on boron reserves being broken when it comes to this advantage? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0181par0642	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0182par0644	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you the county name. We run out of water once a month. Five days, 6,000 people are dehydrated. Once a month, a week a month... we can't afford to sell the county. Can you at least erase interest savings for years and then somehow pay for it? Look, I'm not talking about the person, Mr. Secretary. It's an institutional structure. If you sell it, it won't pay off. He's dehydrated for a week every month. They're cutting off the distribution company, here, they're moving three to five cents, they're opening it up, but the debt, the debt, the debt, the debt... a million dollars in debt interest, Mr. Secretary. At least, I'm speaking on behalf of the county's medicine -- let's restructure the interest and at least keep these people thirsty every week, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0181par0646	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0183par0648	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as a major reason for this bill's preparation, you say you can ensure that the cost of this law does not reflect on the consumer. Don't you think we should reduce the cost of electricity used by the villager to zero? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0184par0651	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0185par0653	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's been a constant blackout in Antalya. Under privatisation, serious investments are seen not to be invested in communication lines. What do you think about that? What's with all the power outages? I know I live in it myself, including the floor. Second, Germany currently provides 13 per cent of its electricity from the wind. Within ten years, they intend to increase it to 21 percent. We owe billions of dollars for nuclear power plants. However, applications for solar energy and wind energy have been granted, but TEAS is also difficult to transport electricity produced. That's why manufacturers are saying they're giving up their investments. Do you intend to solve this problem, or do you insist on not using our own resources to build a nuclear plant whose technology is foreign, its operating, its foreign, its fuel is a problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0186par0657	Dear scholar Light...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0187par0658	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are around 3,500 oil stations across Turkey -- most of them small stations -- the EPDK suspended their licenses, and the fines are serious. However, the fines imposed on major oil distributors were later cancelled as a result of an agreement between them. Now, is there any way that you could be working to remove the penalty for this little oil station of 3,500, as in the rest of them? Second, on December 30, 2012, as the privatisation process continued, 113 employees were taken into the EUAS. How would that be judged? You're selling from one side, you're buying new employees for the business that's being sold from the other. Can you really put that on your conscience? And you used to give the owners of the rights of the workers before, and you did not.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0188par0661	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0663	Mr. President, dear friends, it's clear that I can't answer a five-minute question in five minutes. So why wasn't this answered, please, friends? If I have time, I can talk to you for 25 minutes, and I'll try to use that time well by answering questions from earlier times. Dear friends, no, there's no electricity here, it's not being used here or anything like that, around 28 billion kilowatts, in a year, Turkey's use of electricity has increased. There are areas that consume 54 percent more electricity. Now, he doesn't use this electricity, he doesn't use this, who does, right? Now, this is 8.1 per cent of Turkey's power growth in the last year. So, 4.150 megawatts we powered up. Now, a painting is being created that we can't really allow, that's not true, and that's not fair. So right now, I think that Turkey is growing up with electricity consumption, and the number of people who are paying the electric bills -- because we're all over people who can't pay here -- and I can give you numbers of these. Friends, there are 14,300 dealerships in Turkey. Let me put it together with the previous question of Mr. Oktay Vural. By December 20, 2004, these dealerships were supposed to be licensed on May 20, 2005, with a final application date. I mean from here, in terms of dealerships who didn't get their license in time, which means that, in a good way, he's not the one who enjoyed it, but I'll have to make it very brief. So he did some of it on EPDK pleasure, some of it he didn't... there's no such thing. In 2005, they were fined for selling to distribution companies, unlicensed dealerships, and dealerships for unlicensed activities. The fines given to distribution companies, according to the State's decision, so far, our friends who have asked this question have never mentioned it - reduced the fine from 600,000 euro per dealership to 50,000 euros. There's no EPDK involved in this, and there's no Department of Energy involved. The court has reduced this sentence. Cases filed by the dealerships were also dismissed. Now, what would he do in front of the law here, the EPDK, Department of Energy? And after that, due to delays from the EPDK and other public institutions during the first licensing -- I'll be clear -- some dealerships have failed to get licenses in their last application date, and without legal regulation, there is no way the EPDK will be able to remove it. Now, if we agree on this -- which I'm going to get re-edited -- any dealership is being harmed here due to delays from the public institution or the EPDK., we can include that in legal regulations. Let's all sit down and talk to the groups again, all of you, but without any basis, without any reason, I want to do this. If it's being tried, it's not right to do this. Let's all discuss the details of this together, together with the groups. Now, consumer arbitration committees and consumer courts for the return of missing illegal costs have been made available. Some of the cases have been accepted, some have been rejected; some have decided to pay, some have decided differently. In different counties, different decisions have been made, and there have been rejection decisions on the grounds that it should be held in the court. For the cancellation of the tariff arrangement, the motions to halt the execution have been denied in cases filed against the State. Now, these are two separate things, and you can't mix them up. There are still cases going on. Most of it wasn't canceled, some of the individual applications were accepted. That's why this process continues. Dear friends, now that we've talked about Seyitömer, I'm sure my response is not clear enough after you've taken a note from me, which is off the agenda. Now, ask the average 10 accountants here. A company is not only valued by its income, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0668	I've made a profit, Mr. Secretary. It goes to five years of profit.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0669	Then you'll talk about profit. I'm going to give you a hundred lira income...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0671	You didn't give me the profit figures, but I got them from the Privatisation Administration, which goes to five years of profit, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0672	Guys, I listened to you without interrupting, even though you were speaking the wrong way.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0673	We're listening.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0674	But look, you're not listening, If you'll excuse me, I have something very clear to say. Now, I'll show you a company that costs $100, but it costs $150. You're going to consider it now?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0676	Mr. Secretary, these are a profitable institution, numbers show profit, we say profit.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0677	If you ask 10 of our fellow accountants, they'll all say, "You're miscalculations."
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0678	We're from those accountants. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm an expert on that subject.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0679	That's not gonna happen! I'm sorry you didn't do any residency.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0680	That's what you thought!
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0191par0681	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0682	I'm telling you right now, look, I'm repeating what you're saying: the place where the income is $2 billion pays itself in two years.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0683	Yeah, you sell it for two years, you sell it for five years.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0684	Look, I'll repeat your sentence, and you can open the transcripts and see. You sold it for $2 billion. You said it was $2 billion. You've paid for it in two years.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0685	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0686	That's no way to settle a score! Does that place pay for itself in two years?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0190par0687	Mr. Secretary, you haven't given away profit values. I just got the profit values. You're selling it for five years.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0189par0688	Look, I repeat, I repeat your words.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0192par0689	Madam Secretary, thank you. Guys...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0193par0691	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0194par0692	Mr. President, there's no such thing!
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0192par0693	Guys, just a second... Dear Light, please...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0195par0695	This isn't right! There's a limit to everything. That's not true!
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0192par0696	Please, Minister, your time is up, sir, and answer the rest in writing, please. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0196par0697	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0192par0698	Mr. Light, please, Mr. Alim...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0196par0699	You cannot say that you have taken over 25 per cent of the 20 per cent fugitive. I've got the numbers.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0197par0700	Mr. President, would you please continue?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0198par0701	Twenty percent of the fugitive is 25 percent...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0199par0702	What did he do during your time?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0200par0703	Friends, the QA is complete. There are eight motions on matter. However, according to Article 87 of the Civil Code, only seven motions can be submitted on each clause. Lawmakers of every political party group have the right to make a motion. Under these provisions, I will first read the first seven motions according to the order of arrival, and then I will process these motions according to the order of violations. For the same reason, a motion issued by lawmakers from the Republican People's Party Group was not adopted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and change the statement "in the Bent" in the sentence added to Article 3/1059 of the main Law Proposal to Article 4628 and Article 14 of Article 14 (c). Other proposal holders of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd draft of the current bill. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Muharrem Light Uður Bayraktutan Kamer Young Subsequently, Article 3-4628 has been changed to Article 1 (c) of Article 14 (31/12/12/2012). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of the current law proposal 393 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Necati Özensoy Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Article 3-4628 of Article 14 of Article 1 (c) was changed in the following way. "c) Production and incentives to enter the business until 31/12/2015 are provided to those with auto-roductor licenses: 1) Production facilities are reduced by 50 per cent of the system's use of the delivery system for five years, starting with the introduction dates. Production facilities established by the Council of Ministers in places declared the Energy Development Industry District will be reduced by 90 per cent of the system's use of the transmission system for ten years, starting from the start of the business entry date. 2) During the investment period of production facilities, the transactions and forms of production facilities are exceptional except for stamp tax and mortar. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0201par0739	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0200par0740	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0202par0741	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0200par0742	Mr Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0203par0745	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 3 of the Law Proposal 393. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, with this law, new incentives in the energy zones... and you're trying to pin loss-smuggling electricity on other citizens. Now, when it comes to the energy reserve, of course, it comes to mind that my constituency zone is the Ceyhan Energy Development Zone in Adana. It's built on 1,300,000 acres of land, but so far, not a single nail has been nailed down, not a single business has been built. Now, when these regions were being formed, as usual, the AKP classic, you blew or blew. This is going to be one of the world's most important energy centers, Turkey's Rotterdam. Where is Rotterdam? I mean, you said unemployment would be over, thousands of people would be working there, but so far, unfortunately, you've done nothing in this area, and you've blocked what's going to happen. I'd like to go to the Prime Minister and invest there. Mr. Prime Minister, I promised our Eruk. In 2010, the Charik Group asked for a change in a map there, and applied for a special administration. Our members of the County General Assembly refused first, and then, the AKP politicians who were political in that region came out, and they said: "Ya, here, 10,000 workers would work here. Since members of the CHP County General Assembly refuse to invest, the Çuk Group can't invest here. We've gathered the Assembly again and accepted that map change from the Charik Group. So the map's been changed, but so far, the String Group hasn't even put a nail in it. Where's 10,000 workers? Where? Why didn't the String Group invest in it and employ 10,000 workers? Unfortunately, you've established the art of politics there, as always, by deceiving people, by deceiving them. My dear friends, look, again, here is the matter of Adana's unemployment. So Adana is one of Turkey's highest unemployment counties, unfortunately, as it used to be filled with factories and unemployed people from all over come and get jobs. If these energy investments were made, would there be unemployment in Adana? There was no unemployment in Adana, but you couldn't do it either, and you've always done politics on it, and you've never put a stone in it, and unfortunately you haven't even nailed a nail. Again, you're saying that you're not going to take the OTV, you're going to deny the OTV, you're going to cut off the OTV, you're going to use natural gas, you're going to put incentives. Well, when you came to power, you said you'd give the farmer cheap diesel and give him blue diesel. Well, come on, let's get rid of the OTV on the farmer's diesel. Is this farmer the adopted son of this country, friends? I mean, why don't you put the farmer on account when you're giving him these incentives all over the place? You give diesel to the sea traders, sir, the yacht, the hard ones without the OTV, but when it comes to the farmer, unfortunately, you don't even think about it, so you always deprive the farmer of it. Right now, unfortunately, the Turkish farmer is using the world's most expensive diesel: $4.2. One of the most heavy inputs of this farmer is diesel, one is fertilizer, but when it comes to other institutions, other investment zones, you open up these incentives, you remove the OTV, but when it comes to the farmer, you say we don't want it. It's an unfair procedure. Come on, let's put the farmer in this practice, let's include the farmer, let's get the farmer to benefit, so our people can get paid for what they've planted. I hereby request the acceptance of this motion, and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0204par0753	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd draft of the current bill. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Subsequently, Article 3-4628 has been changed to Article 1 (c) of Article 14 (31/12/12/2012). Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0205par0761	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0204par0762	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0206par0763	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0204par0764	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0207par0766	Mr. President, members of parliament, we are trying to improve the bill in its own right. Don't let the matter contradict each other, let's make a better law. There are things we agree on, things we disagree with. We're trying to heal it, but either way. Now, look, there's an error in this article: there's an incentive for production companies and autoroductor licenses to promote electricity production in the interim 14th Amendment of the Power Market Act (c). The duration of this encouragement expires on 31 December 2012. Because of failed electricity and energy policies, it seems that time is not enough. We still have a problem. The government says. So let's say we didn't get it right in electricity production, let's extend it. Of course, we're not against it, let's extend it. Whatever the time is needed, let's write it into the law, let's relax the industry, let's remove the barriers to electricity production. It's a temporary precaution, as long as we're straight. However, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, or rather the Minister -- I don't think the Ministry's technical staff has such a problem -- has no predictions, no predictions, he can't do it, so when we're going to be able to produce electricity, he doesn't have that prediction. Now, the bill says: let's extend the deadline for December 31, 2012 until December 31, 2015. Let these incentives continue for three more years. We have no objection to that, nor do we suggest that we change it. But then, the second joke of the article says: "The Council of Ministers is authorized to extend it for another five years. Dear friends, this sentence clearly violates the 7th Article of the Constitution, the legislative authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot be handed over. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will decide, which will extend for another three years, but it gives the Council of Ministers a mandate, and it doesn't matter if I extend it, you can extend it for more than me, for five years. This is clearly against the 7th Amendment of the Constitution. If you need eight years, write it down as eight years, six years, five years, but do it by law, or take out this joke, force yourself to feel under the pressure of the law until 2015, overcome the problems, if not enough, by the end of 2015, whichever government at the time comes, whichever government it is then, will prolong that period. It's wrong, we've made a motion to correct it, and I've come to you to express it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0208par0772	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit to your votes the motion that the Commission and the government do not agree: those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. Now, since the five motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they demand it, I'll make a separate commitment to the motion holders or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request and propose that Article 3 of Law Offer 2/1059 be replaced by Article 3 and Article 4628 of Act 14 (c) which is included in the sentence added to the sentence "in the bent" in the sentence. Other proposal holders of the same nature: Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0209par0790	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0208par0791	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0210par0792	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0208par0793	I'm reading the same reasons: It's been corrected in accordance with the law-writing technique. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. ISBN 4-6/6/2002 and was changed to the 1st amendment of Article 5 of Article 5 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4760. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP... Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0211par0803	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, the most esteemed MPs, I salute you all. You know what this stuff is, guys? It's a 25-year-old natural gas power plant that was built with a do-it-all -- I think it started in 1996. In that day's policy, I guarantee that these plants that produce electricity with natural gas are 13 cents -- I'm underlining -- 13 cents. The state said, 13 cents. Now, these plants are 25 years old, and they're going to fill a portion of it in 25 years soon, and they're going to give it up, but they've always taken their money from 13 cents so far. Now, here, there's a downside between the old plants and the new plants. Between the old plants and the new plants, even though they're paying the same price, about 30 percent of the new plants are more advantageous because technology has been renovated, it's built with this technology. Let's say the old plant is 30 percent different from the energy from the X natural gas cube and the new plant, friends, the new founders are 30 percent more profitable. They get 13 cents, but they make more, and they produce more from natural gas than that technology. For one thing, know this, loud and clear. Dear friends, this country is ours. In this country -- Mr. Hamzacebi has just told us -- let's not do anything wrong to domestic production, which technology, whether it's the sun or the wind, or the lignite, whatever it is. In the circumstances of that day, Mr. Secretary, if five years of encouragement were given, in the circumstances of that day, some investors can't do it in five years. I can't do it in five years. We're being unfair here. Let's just bring it back again, because of domestic production, if it's 20 years, if it's 30 years, if it's not going out, let's sit down, we'll talk about it, we'll support it to the end, but let's all see how it's going to end, let's get the account, the book... I got the promotion from this job for 20 years, I got the incentive for 15 years, let's approach everyone on equal terms, but if people who can't get into it yesterday, if they don't get into it 2015 plus five more years, they'll use the power of the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0212par0808	Five years, five years...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0211par0809	No, Mr. President, that day was five years, but you extended it to 2015. We don't say, we don't say, I underline, we don't say, "Don't spare." But let's approach everyone on equal terms, let's keep the competition on equal terms. From this point on, Mr. Secretary, we're in for anything to support domestic production. As long as we can produce a source of domestic production, but there's 1,000 megawatts of domestic production here, so you're encouraging 1,000 megawatts of energy right now, Mr. Secretary, 1,000 megawatts. The price of 1,000 megawatts: $1,200 each megawatt, friends, 1,000 megawatts of energy, 1,000 megawatts of production, $1 billion, 200 million in investments, you can only get incentives... friends, who can do it with $1 billion, 200 million? Certain people will fund it from the outside. No, Mr. Secretary, drop it, drop it to 50 megawatts, drop it to 100 megawatts. Whoever's going to generate energy from domestic production, we need to give them absolute incentives, Mr. Secretary, we need to compete on equal terms. First of all, I don't have this. Guys, it's a shame. If there's a value in this country, if there's a Liniyet stove, if we're going to get maybe 100 megawatts of energy from here, we're going to have to use it, too. But it's going to be 1,000 megawatts once. There are 1,000 megawatt fields, but there are people who want to invest in lower areas, and they can't benefit from incentives, my friends. So that means that $1 billion, $200 million, invests only benefit from incentives. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commissioner, I'm speaking to you, this will be discussed on your commission in a week. If you think this country will come, if you think about the resources in this country, if you still don't put 1,000 megawatts into that law... if it still insists on 1,000 megawatts, whether it's the Ministry of Energy or the Ministry of Economy, it's a shame for all of us. Think about it, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Think about it. Two: the very low cost of you making 1,000 megawatts, or lower, or lower, or do-structures, these were done at the time. You've guaranteed all this, Mr. Secretary, and a minimum 13 cents, friends 13 cents. Mr. Secretary, if you guarantee a purchase per kilowatt for people to invest above certain megawatts, wherever it may be, you'll get their facilities easier, easier, cheaper costs. And I'm not saying 13 cents, but for domestic production, 7 cents, 8 cents, Mr. Secretary, your energy costs -- you have to guarantee them a purchase. They can go with this and get their equipment from abroad, their facilities, very easily. Otherwise, only people from abroad would get involved with a specific source. Come on, anyone who wants to invest in this country, on a certain megawatt, I don't know if it's 100 or 200 or 300, you have to guarantee a purchase, Mr. Secretary. So these people go and evaluate all kinds of resources, so you give 13 cents to natural gas, which is an external source, but you don't guarantee any purchases to our own source, Mr. Secretary, I don't understand the logic of that. In particular, Mr. Commissioner, if you like the future of this country, if you like the future of this country, and if you like the people of this country and we don't want our money to go out, we have to be clear about these two things. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0213par0815	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, Democratic MP... Mr. Tin Man, here you go.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0214par0819	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Its primary fuel fuel is fueled by gas and secondary fuel power plants, with instructions or approval from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and the delivery of the engine used only in the production of electricity, with a temporary 5th article added to the Law on July 9, 2008 and from 31/12/2012 to the first edition of electricity production. The reason for this arrangement is tax exemption from fuels used in liquid fuel power production plants, which ensure the demand for increased electricity power and the use of the current capacity to ensure supply security by 2013. It is now envisioned that the fourth article of this bill and the end of the tax exception, which ended on 31/12/2012, will be extended for seven years and will be implemented until 31/12/2019. Thus, the OTV exception, originally estimated at four and a half years, was removed for up to 11 and a half years. Thus, as in previous articles, this arrangement has made it clear again that the AKP government has failed to reach its goals in eliminating the power supply deficit and securing supply security. Honourable lawmakers have provided innocent reasons such as the fact that regulations made with this bill are generally not required to increase electricity prices, that the costs to be raised are not reflected to consumers. However, the government also compensates for the loss of income due to tax and tuition and incentives that it cannot receive, with tax hikes. Therefore, for a citizen, there is no way out of a raise. In recent years, electricity bills have become an important spending pen in the family budget, and have been an important cost factor in industry and agriculture. Today, the electricity bill paid by families exceeds a tenth of the minimum wage, pension. In the five years since 2007, the increase in electricity by the AKP government has reached 127 per cent. Inflation in the five years mentioned, the TÜFE growth rate is 46 per cent. In 2012, electricity increased by 21 per cent, and TÜFE increased by 6.16 per cent. Electric bills have been made a tool used to rob a citizen. The electricity bill, it's like a robbery plan, not an electric bill. Today, there are ten separate pens hidden in the electric bill that are being made to pay the citizens. In electric bills, the main pen is the cost of electricity energy consumed. The price of consumption of electricity is added to the loss of 16.8 per cent of the illegal cost. 2% of the TRT share, 1 per cent of the Energy Fund, 5 per cent of the municipal consumption tax is added to the bill. In addition, the cost of delivery system use, distribution system use, retail sales and meter reading is added to the bill. Mr. Secretary, you're saying that you intend to move the price of electricity energy to the bottom of the bill on this clause by exclusion of taxes on companies. If you intend to lower the price of electricity bills, let's first remove this share of funds, the TRT share, the price of illegal electricity and the money to read the meter. If this is done, I'm guessing there'll be more than 25 percent decline in electricity bills. Mr. Secretary, if you're sincere in your cause, let's make these arrangements. Dear lawmakers, although there is no clear regulation in the law for the cost of the missing fugitive, the laws given by Law 4628 are widely interpreted by the EPDK, making decisions and implementing them according to the notifications issued. The consumers, who have no legal obligation to take responsibility for the fugitive, are facing the fugitive of the distribution system. In a speech at Şanliurfa, the Prime Minister said that illegal electricity was forbidden. Well, isn't it a sin to make an innocent citizen pay for the imposition? Electric distribution companies don't show the amount of money in the missing illegal cost department in bills they've sent to subscribers in recent months, so they're hiding it. The price of electricity on the run has also become a fugitive in the bill. Upon the reaction of electricity subscribers to the missing illegal cost, distribution companies and Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources officials have been alleged to hold a meeting on whether to place a missing fugitive in their electricity bills, and this decision has been left to the initiative of companies. The amount of funds from the loss of 16.8 per cent of the price of electricity energy also exceeds 21 per cent of the price of electricity, including the TRT share, the municipal consumption tax, and the total VAT. The citizen pays for the electricity he doesn't use, as well as the tax and tax. The AKP government officially robs the citizen with this application. The cost of missing fugitives is incompatible with the principles of rights and nastiness that are being made to pay off innocent citizens. Whoever runs the missing fugitive pays, that's right. The energy fund's share is already reported to the bill as 1.18 per cent of the price of electricity since it has already been applied at 1 per cent, but is subject to an 18 per cent added value tax. The Electric Energy Fund was originally removed by Law 4684 in 2001, but was envisioned to receive a contribution to meet the commitments agreed on by the Power Energy Fund agreements, which will take effect until 31/12/2001. Thus, it has been predicted temporarily, but the continuation of this practice for about 12 years shows that it has become a new tax quality. The relevant provisions of Articles 3096 and 3291, which envision the purchase of a share of the Electric Energy Fund, must be lifted from force. It is also reported as 2.36 per cent of the price of electricity energy, as it is subject to 18 per cent VAT, with 2% of the TRT share being taken over the price of electricity. There's no right reason to take a TRT share from electricity subscribers. The relevant provisions under which Law 3093 is to receive a TRT share must be lifted and thus the charge of consumers' electricity consumption must be lightened. Again, 5 per cent municipal consumption tax is taxed on the price of electricity energy; 18% is subject to value tax, so it is reflected in the bill as 5.9 per cent of the price of electricity energy. The tax must be stopped from receiving value tax over the tax. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we have offered law proposals not to receive the price of the electricity, not to receive the TRT share, not to receive the Energy Fund share, not to receive the meter-reading money. We expect that these proposals will be brought up immediately and legalized and supported by you. In this way, literally, the public's electricity bills will be reduced to 25 per cent. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0215par0833	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. No more speeches on behalf of the groups. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Necati Özensoy, the MP of Bursa... Mr. Özensoy, come in.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0216par0838	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding Article 4 of Law 393 which is being discussed. I salute all of you. Yes, it's an incentive, but the extension of the incentive in this substance shows us something. So it's a reflection of the fact that the energy policies that have been implemented so far are not true. Why? If you say, Mr. Secretary and the members of the ruling party who have come up here have always talked about: here are the supports, incentives to renewable energy, or, you know, incentives to local resources... but here we support electricity produced by fuel. What's an accelerant? It's an imported source. Now, what does that tell us? It shows something else. Once again, Mr. Secretary, friends have spoken of investments made. In addition, with the opening of the private sector in 2001 along with Power Market Law 4628, the government's investments in energy have dropped to 5 per cent. However, since energy policies and the private sector have not opened up enough, let me tell you the average numbers: the average budget increase between 2005 and 2011 is 5.5 per cent, but the demand for electricity is 7.5 per cent. Now, this shows that there are going backwards in the balance of power and supply and demand. Especially when you're expressing this increase in power, you have to look at quality rather than quantity. What's the quality? Look, this, for example, corresponds to one third of a thermal plant because wind energy corresponds to 3,000 hours a year. So, the goal of the incentive here, the valued lawmakers, is that our point power is actually the most important sign of power in electricity production, at that time when electricity is produced at the highest hours. So our point power is 37,000 megawatts. So when we fall below this 37,000 megawatts or we don't get as high as we need to, we're not going to be able to meet the demand for electricity in point hours. So, to support the power of points, otherwise... here, again, electricity production is clearly expressed in the Court's reports. The cost of power from your engine is 65 cents worth of lawmakers. So you should appreciate how meaningful it is to support an electric kilowatt hour that costs 65 cents. So the use of point force is also important. Look, I'll also tell you that in 2002, the minimum charge was 43.5 percent to the point power, while in 2004, it was reduced to 37.8, even 34.1 in 2008, and was able to reach the 40s level in 2010. So if we don't increase the power of points in this sense, the ratio of power used at the minimum power level, the ratio of points to power, that's a handicap for us. So there are smart counters now, or there are a lot of measures to do, and we can also develop support for this point power, not just with investments, but with other alternative projects, but in some developments, energy policies don't go on day-to-day, without too much detail, with some superficial policies and projects, so I'm afraid the electricity production in Turkey isn't going on very stable. When we look at the electricity projections again, even if it comes to life with the current projects in 2016, there will seem to be power shortages in Turkey. It's based on wind energy. Only 20 percent of their grade power can be connected, etcetera. I mean, there's a lot of words to be said, but let me put it simply: energy policies aren't right, guys. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0217par0846	On behalf of his people, Mr. Ekrem Çelebi, the Ağrı MP. Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0218par0849	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 4th Amendment to the Power Market Law and the Special Expension Tax Act. I hereby salute your high council. With the increase in energy demand in our country, there are constant increases in energy demand in the world and in different rates in each country. Global energy investments increase every year to meet this demand for increase. According to International Energy Agency data, a total of 37.4 trillion dollars will be invested in the energy sector on a global scale between 2012 and 2035. About $17 trillion of investments are planned for the electric sector, $10 trillion for the oil, $9 trillion for the gas sector, $1.2 trillion for the coal sector, $0.4 trillion for the biofuel sector. The total need for investment in the energy sector in our country up to 2023 is estimated to exceed $120 or 130 billion. In this framework, the necessary work is done by our government to implement regulations that will enable the need for investments to be made by the private sector. As a result of these studies, the private sector's share of the power of the electric board reached 30 per cent in 2002 and 56 per cent today. As of the end of 2012, the private sector's share of electricity production has reached 61 per cent. Turkey is the 21st in primary energy consumption among the world's countries, and we are the 26th in oil consumption, the 20th in natural gas consumption, 14th in coal consumption, the 20th in electricity consumption, and the 17th in the highest in the ranking of countries with coal reserves. The 13th country, which produces the most coal, is the 20th country in the production of electricity, the 12th in the geothermal energy capacity, the 27th in the solar energy capacity, the 16th country in the capacity of wind energy. Turkey is the country in which energy demand growth has been the fastest among the OECD countries over the past decade. In the same way, our country has been the second largest economy in the world, which has had the highest demand rate since 2002, since China, in electricity and natural gas. The most important issue in the electricity sector for supply security and the future of the system is the fact of production investments. About 18,347 megawatts from projects that have been licensed in the last eight years have been included in the new capacity system. Nearly half of the electricity production capacity that took place in 2003 comes from natural gas, while in recent years, one third of that capacity is from natural gas, and the rest is due to wind, hydraulics, and coal. As of late October 2012, temporary adoptions of 159 new or unit additions to the private sector's 2.450 megawatt board power have been granted to the commercial enterprise. The 1.590 megawatts of these plants are composed of renewable energy sources, 35 megawatts of coal, lignite, imported coal, and remaining 825 megawatts of natural gas fuel plants. Precious lawmakers, the secondary fuel purchases used in the form of secondary fuel productions, electricity energy tariffs, were exempted from special consumption tax until 31/12/2012/2012, in the event of cuts or reductions in natural gas-powered power plants, established under the Law on Electric Productions, Message, Distribution and Trade of Associations outside Turkey 3096. Since the application-private agreements of natural gas plants established with a do-and-do-development model (4760) have ended in 2019, as the first joke of Article 5 (31/12/12/2012) of the Interim Consumption Tax Act was changed into.31/12/2019) by the end of 2019...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0219par0860	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0218par0861	I thank you, I pay my respects. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0219par0863	Congressmans, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure on the matter in ten minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0220par0865	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the cost of 1 kilowattsaat electricity produced by natural gas, and in 2011-2012, what percentage of existing power was licensed to a natural gas plant? What would be the share of natural gas and electricity production in total electricity production if natural gas plants in the process of application, study and evaluation get licenses? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0221par0868	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0222par0870	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what's the average cost of the unit energy produced in thermal power plants, or 1 kilowatt-hour electricity, today? Given this value, how much is the net profit total of the Seyitömer Termic Plant, which you sold for a total of two years of income or went to the final stage of its sale, and Seyitömer Liniyet Industries for the last three years? In a similar way, what is the net profit value of the Tunçbilek Termic Plant and Garp Linet Enterprises, which you continue to sell, and what is the sum total of the last three years of net profit? I want an answer that I think would be very important for public knowledge. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0223par0873	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0224par0874	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in order to encourage this domestic production, when the power plants use natural gas, motors and other fuels, you remove the OTV, you apply an incentive. So your engine is domestic production, or it doesn't support imports from the outside? Is natural gas domestic or does it not support imports from the outside? That's one. Second: there's a reduction in electricity in agricultural irrigation. To support the farmer, would you consider lowering the price of electricity to contribute to the farmer? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0225par0878	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0226par0879	Minister, I just asked you a question before I gave you the name of the county. The name of this district is Yazhan district of Malatya. What conscience endures a week's thirst for 6,000 people each month? It's our job to figure it out. Water is sacred, drinking water, but if we sell everything, we can't pay with those interest. Mr. Nuts is here. Ask him if you want.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0225par0880	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0227par0882	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you intend to reduce or download electricity production, other inputs in distribution companies, in order to ensure that no more expenses are reflected?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0225par0884	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0228par0886	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know how many lawsuits the citizens filed against the ministry to restore their missing and illegal costs. How many cases have been filed? How did these cases end? Second, how many of our citizens have been charged with stealing electricity in the last five years? What were the consequences? Third, how many court orders are there to prove that the missing fugitive costs are wrong? And we know that the Ministry has lost a lot of cases related to illegal costs. Even though you've lost these, why didn't the Ministry provide these extraditions to all citizens, citizens, now that the citizens' rights have come out after these losses? You're still going with an understanding. That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0229par0893	Thank you. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0230par0895	Thank you, sir. I was bringing something up, Mr. Secretary, when I was away, Mr. Secretary answered. If you do a technical study on this, I would appreciate it if you could share an information that says, "What can be the problem and the solution? ' Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0231par0898	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0232par0900	Mr. President, dear friends, I will try to answer questions from the previous period in the same order. ▪ What can we do to pay off electricity debts related to amateur sports clubs? For this, we need to support amateur sports clubs, especially myself, NGOs, NGOs. So I asked my friends, and they're talking about a debt worth around 60,000 dollars. I think even at this exit, we can work this out amongst ourselves, without leaving it to the NGOs. Instead of having amateur sports clubs put on a separate schedule in a systematic fashion, I think we can work this out even between ourselves. There's been a lot of talk, of course, about the boron. Guys, we're not going to privatize the pipe; we're going to continue this without ever blocking the way for the public hand of the boron mine and going to such a change. So I'm not going to say anything very different in that sense. It's about the district of Malatya... and the county can't pay its debt. So you have to make us an offer, which we should be considering. Now, I can't describe how I'm going to pay for this, and I'm not offering a payment plan, but I want the relevant private company or public company to do something in that sense; it's not right. Let's help them -- of course they won't be thirsty -- of course we can help them get what they need, but I mean, it's not possible for friends to do anything without a payment plan. Now, the example of Germany has been given. In Germany we had a meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy -- the same person looking after the Ministry of Environment -- Rösler. Now, how did you guys come up with such subsidies? Now we're trying to get back the subsidies we've already given around 50 billion euros because that's no longer a number we can tolerate. But how have you already determined this feasibility number? They asked us. Yesterday -- I just mentioned -- I attended a meeting of presidents, prime ministers, ministers in Abu Dhabi. The question is, how does Turkey allow this growth to grow in energy? But I see that the same shape, the same image, is not perceived in the same degree from here. Now, a minister of Germany is offering us these feelings of appreciation, and we call them very advanced in terms of the Renes in Germany. Guys, we can't split up the 50 billion euros, the annual number of subsidies, and we can't split up the one in ten, but we're talking about an investment with a license of 11,000 megawatts and 2,200 megawatts. When we don't have technology, we don't have to pay for the technology we import. Who will benefit from God's blessing of the wind to this land, and from the favor of the sun that God has given to this country? Is he a tech owner, an investor, or a citizen of this country? We split it fair and square and gave 10 euros. When we gave them 10 euros, they bought 28 euros in Germany. So, dear friends, we must be acting in accordance with the terms of our country. I'll give you a quick review of Mr. Vural's earlier question. We'll do a study together with all the groups to come up with a solution to it, but we have to do it at a limited rate without causing abuse. And that limited ratio -- even though you're talking about -- even if he's applying -- for this reason or this reason -- is that EPDK has ended in four months and 11 days, but is delayed, and he's not getting a license -- let's do it for the people who have a subsidies. The number is 3,500 less than what my friends say it is, according to Mr. Light. Let's get these taken out, so if there's any damage, any loss, any loss, let's take away his loss. These decisions were made by the State's decision for distribution companies. The prosecution rejected the dealerships for a different reason. Now that you know it, I mean, what can we do about something he refused to do? So I believe it's right to do such a study, without expanding the scope of the legal arrangement too much, without taking the beggars into this area. In that sense, I believe we need to consider your proposal in a positive way. Mr. Young, he's not here at the moment, about what the 14.8 per cent discount of TETAS is meant to mean... I believe it should be opened a little bit more. TETAS or someone else can't change the profit margin of distribution companies, no matter what price they sell electricity to the distribution company. The total profit margin of public institutions does not change that. The issue here was that the distribution companies received electricity at different prices than TETASH, before 2013. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now it's different. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0233par0910	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, there are nine motions on the 4th article. However, according to Article 87 of the Civil Code, only seven motions can be submitted on each clause. Lawmakers of every political party group have the right to make a motion. Under these provisions, I'm going to read the first seven motions according to the order of arrival, and then I'm going to process these motions according to the order of discrepancies. For the same reason, we cannot implement two motions issued by lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party and Republican People's Party groups. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and recommend that the statement in Article 4 of Law Proposal 2/1059 be changed to history. The signatures of other proposals are: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 4 of the 393 Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Haluk Eyidoğan Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 4 has been changed into Article 31/12/12/2012, dated 6/6/2002 and published in the first verse of Article 5 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4760. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 393 Orders Numbered Bill be changed to ▪31/12/2019 (31/12/2019) in Article 4 of the Charter. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th amendment of the current bill, number 393, be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Oktay Vural The first joke of Article 5 of the Special Exposure Tax Act No. 4760, dated 6/6/2002, was changed into (31/12/2012) and added the following joke after the first joke. Until 31/12/2023, 2710.19 is on the table of the Law added (1) (A). 41. 00. 11, 2710.19. 41. 00. 18, 2710.19. 45. 00. 11, 2710.19. 45. 00. 12 and 2710.19. 49. 00. 11 G. T. I. P. The delivery of the number-one goods to farmers for agricultural production is free of tax. Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0234par0946	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0233par0947	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0235par0948	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0233par0949	Are you going to talk about motive or what?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0236par0950	Erkan Akçay...
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0233par0951	Mr. Akçay, the Manisa MP, please.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0237par0953	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 4 of the Law Proposal 393. I salute you all. As I begin my discussion, the answers that the Minister has just given to the questions are actually very clear answers, very clear answers, and the conditions of our country are not enough. I mean, is the country's conditions so bad that these resources can't be separated? On the one hand, the citizens are also confused by their growth figures, their rhetoric, their claims to increase national income by threefold, whether the country's conditions are good or bad. Second of all, we're not a state of technology. You say. And we have the right to ask: What have you been doing for ten years? In the necessary energy, you're having trouble securing resources for something we're most distressed about, and we don't see your efforts to produce enough technology. Valuable lawmakers are exempted from special consumption tax by 2019 if they use secondary fuel -- fuel, fuel or motor -- to produce electricity in the event of interruptions in natural gas power power plants under the fourth clause. 98% of natural gas, 91% of oil, 90 per cent of stone coal, which covers 87 per cent of Turkey's primary energy consumption, is imported. Although the government stated that electricity production would reduce its share of natural gas to less than 30 per cent, 44 per cent of the 239 billion kilowatts of electricity produced in 2012 was produced from natural gas. With this arrangement, the OTV exception is to use fuel to natural gas plants, which provide about 2.5 per cent of electricity production as part of the do-and-run model. The current board has been granted a natural gas power plant license of 28 per cent of the power. The application or examination can be established at 88 per cent of the total power today if the stations in the evaluation process get a license. Thus, Turkey's dependence on external gas in the production of electricity will increase further. Turkey, on the other hand, has the potential to export a significant amount of electricity when it activates its own resources. Dear lawmakers, production costs must be reduced in order for the agricultural sector to compete with the world. In order to reduce production costs, the tax burden on the basic inputs of production first appears to be a clear obligation. The VAT in the diamond was reset in 2004. The Minister of Economy, Mr. Çalayan, explains that they are also working to reset the EVV in the diamond. Ships carrying cargo and passengers, commercial yachts, services and fishing vessels are provided with 37.61 per cent of UTV from the farmers' engine when they are given unfueled fuel. As of January 10, 2013, the refinery's engine, which costs $1.44, received $1.60p of OTV, 55p of VAV. Along with the other shares, the engine, which costs $1.44, is sold for $4.24. The market price is $37.61 per cent of the 1 litre engine, which is $4.24, and 52.86 per cent of the tax, including 15.25 per cent of the VAT, and first of all, the VAT must be removed from the mazoda that this farmer is using to produce. The farmer paid in mazotta... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the tax is 5.8 billion and the amount of diesel he uses is 3.3 billion litres, but the support is five percent. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0238par0969	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 393 Orders Numbered Bill be changed to ▪31/12/2019 (31/12/2019) in Article 4 of the Charter. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0239par0976	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0238par0977	Government?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0240par0978	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0238par0979	Let's read the reason, please. The amount of energy that will be produced in total production is very low if secondary fuels are used in the production of electricity, such as natural gas supply or so. With this change, rather than a positive contribution to energy production, the situation of supporting only certain capital groups is becoming significant, with a completely palliative solution to our country's energy problem. This arrangement will also have a negative effect on the search for renewable energy production, which does not harm nature. The long-term continuation of the period is thus harmful, and the immediate incentive for the change and for our country's energy problem to be resolved in a way that is in line with ecological sensibilities. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, since the five motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 4 of the 393 Numbered Legislature. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Haluk Eyidoğan Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 4 has been changed into Article 31/12/12/2012, dated 6/6/2002 and published in the first verse of Article 5 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4760. The signatures of other proposals are: Do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0241par1000	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0238par1001	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0242par1002	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0238par1003	Do you want to talk about it, or do you want to read the motive?
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0243par1004	Haluk Eyiborn will speak.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0238par1005	Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP... Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0244par1008	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers noticed static electricity when the ancient Greeks dragged amber into furs. Since then, electricity has been an important tool of civilization and has been used by various technologies. There are enough people who produce this electricity for their people, and there are others who can't produce enough. We can't offer electricity, an important energy form, enough of national resources to our people, and unfortunately we're dependent on technology in the production of electricity, and on the capacity of production. In general, the main factors affecting energy policies are: Earth energy flow and resource status. The country's energy needs today and future projections. For example, the International Energy Agency says $38 trillion in investments in the world by 2035. I don't know what percentage of these investments are going to be us. The economic situation is the diversity of energy. You know what we've come up with here, is that natural gas is 50 percent of electricity production, and we haven't succeeded in this diversification. Technology requirement. You'll also produce technology. Environmental factors, energy. When you produce electricity, you'll make the environment the least polluted. If you can't get enough of those criteria, you can't determine your energy policy. Has the AKP, which has ruled the country for ten years, been able to develop a successful energy policy that takes into account these factors, these factors, and is not dependent on the outside? On average, when we look at it in total, the answer is no. Increased demand for electricity in Turkey is a predictable, expected development. If the population is increasing, we will become industrial, we will become urban. If you say so, you need to know that the demand for electricity will increase. With this projection, you need to develop policies, and unfortunately you can't do that. Has the AKP developed or improved the policies in accordance with these developments? When you look at the situation, when you look at our outside dependency, when you look at the RD situation, the answer is also unfortunately no. A permanent and sustainable development cannot be considered independent of energy and rational energy policies. The government saved the day by installing natural gas circuit plants, which are a short-term solution to electricity production, an external-dependent project, and where we come from, electricity production has become significantly externally dependent, dependent on natural gas. The wrong electricity and energy policies followed by the AKP have, of course, set off the current deficit. In the end, it's a public bill. Our people are currently paying the most expensive energy bill in the world according to their national income. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit03spe0245par1020	Thank you. I'm reading the reasons for other proposals of the same nature: It's been corrected in accordance with the law-writing technique. I submit to your votes five motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-01-16sit04spe0245par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 393. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday, January 17, 2013, 14 p.m., to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
