tbmm-2013-05-08sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 101st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer these talks, the government's time is 20 minutes. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Malatya MP Ömer Faruk Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to Foundation Week. I hereby salute your high council. The foundation phenomenon is to take the concept of charity and charity out of a personal business and turn it into an institutional structure. The purpose is to help God, and to keep your name hidden until the end of time. To make it more clear, the foundation is to remove the person's property from its personal property for the sake of God, for the sake of good and for the love of man, for the sake of God, for the sake of goodness and for the sake of man, for the sake of service to continue forever. The foundations -- not limited to geography where they operate -- are the values of our civilization, which has been around the world for many years. In the Ottoman era, it was run by foundations from infrastructure to urbanism, from environment to health, from economy to trade in many areas. In a more specific way, many businesses were run by the hands of foundations, other than justice, foreign affairs, and security services. Again, it is admirable that in the Ottoman Empire, about a thousand and four hundred or so foundations were founded by the ladies, that these foundations established by the ladies had performed various services. One of them is the Vakif Gureba Hospital, which was founded in its own name, the Mother Mother of Bezmilalem, and the mosque and fountain next to it, which our mother has built with her own personal money, with her own personal income. From the day it was founded, this Foundation Gureba Hospital has had a very important role in receiving medical care from a strange guru. Today, the same Foundation Gureba Hospital continues to serve the odd guru, the needy, as the Mother of Bezmilalem Sultan University Hospital. The Foundation's General Directorate has made vital efforts to deliver the artifacts from the past to the future, to future generations, to a stronger, better structure. In this framework, the restoration of the foundation's real estate, around 3,700, has been completed. In this restoration there are very important works in Istanbul and many parts of our country. Again, many historical artifacts such as the Great Mosque, caravansaray, Taşhan, Bedesten have been restored in Malatya, my constituency region, and some 26 million liras were spent in exchange for restorations. Many of the foundations that have been thrown out over the years and have been occupied by someone, with investments that will bring in or actually add value, with shopping centers, five-star hotels, and many other revenue-profits being built on them, their revenues being collected in the foundation's account, and the restoration and maintenance of the foundation's foundations are still being used in fulfilling the charity's foundation. Of course, it's important to say that patriotism, respect for the profession, is possible to take care of the artifacts and foundations that the profession left behind. FROM the day the AK PARTY government came to power, they had held on to the foundation's work, making significant efforts at the point of the foundation's sensitivity. So, this week, our Foundation General Directorate is doing a lot of activities in terms of foundation civilization and urbanism, as well as Foundation Week. Many panels are performed in these activities. I'd like to point out that the foundation sensitivity, the awareness of the foundation, the fact that we're alive, and that at the point that the foundation sensitivity and the foundations go to the future with the same precision, all of our MPs have shown the necessary sensitivity and will show after that. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The second statement outside the agenda is owned by İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, who wants to talk about the problems of citizens who are victims of the 2/B law in the district of İzmir Gaziemir. Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0004par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise in the Gaziemir Sarnic region that there is no classic 2/B problem that we know of. I salute you all again. Gaziemir Sarnic faces a very important problem that concerns 2,500 parcels in the region of Gaziemir, but it is not a legal or law-related problem, it is a problem with the axe that the bureaucracy is waging on the law. The use of rights holders of Article 2/B of Article 2/B in Sarnic was blocked by a last-day writing by the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate. What's the problem here? It's a story published by a lobby in the AKP, which brought in a 7th article in the middle of the night and buried it in the law when it came to the agenda in 1948 and the pre-registered registers. It is the victim of a citizen's right to claim the rights of an entire 2,500 parcels of interest that the forest directorate has registered in the treasury after 1948, when he left from 2/B to take over the treasure and took over from the directorate of the forest. Look, the same Tapu Kadastro General Manager... is the result of his claim to this place -- and I have no objection to naming it before it goes out -- to the Cevahir Holdings and some of its friends -- to the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate. It's an ax that's been living there for years, still with homes on it, about about 20,000 people being taken out of their homes, the way the bureaucracy shakes over the law. The same deed, Kadastro, a month before writing on this subject, is gathering the managers of all Tapu Kadastro in the Geneva Holdings. After a week, this Tapu Kadastro writes to people in this area because of this law, writing to the managers of Tapu Kadastro, the one in İzmir. It says: "Yes, the issue of the 2/B (b) issue here is the issue of cases that will be taken after the citizens have submitted their applications. " After this meeting, after the meeting, after the meeting of the Cevahir Holdings, the same man gives an opinion on whether applications should be received again, on the matter of 2/B. I'm talking about the same guy. That means that whoever brought that 7th article here in the middle of the night, whatever MP, whoever brought it, I'm telling you, this is the work of a lobby. The destruction of billions of dollars of land, the violation of the law, is a real violation. The issue later, when you look at the development process, is that our Bulgarian immigrant citizens who migrated there in 1989 also have citizens who have deeds that they buy there on a basis. They say with a clause that they have placed in the 7th Amendment of this law, that the state will renegotiate these records of the court's arrest. What does that mean? It means that citizens have a 2/B right to be taken from them, and they're going after a group of interests. I'm making this very clear. We sat down with the AKP MP friends so we wouldn't make it political, and we couldn't come to any conclusions. We've discussed it with Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism. He didn't even make an appointment with people about it. The deed and the director general of the Kadastro, in one article, one day before, all the citizens, all the rights of the 2,500 parcels there. It is our wish that this matter be handed down to the law on one occasion, that these citizens be granted the right to apply. If this is not done, if it is not submitted to the court, then it is our duty to come from this stand to the end and explain all the other documents. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ali Oz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0006par0044	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems that health workers have experienced in their working life. I salute the High Council. From when he was in power, the Justice and Development Party has expressed on every platform the success of his continuous healthcare goodness, the transformation programme in health. However, it is hard to say that on the road leading you to this success, especially in respect of the great effort given by health workers, they deserve it. Today, we have to look at it from another dimension. Today, 78 per cent of physicians are victims of violence, usually 62 per cent of health workers have been exposed to physical and verbal violence. Health workers are uncomfortable with the implementation of their supervisors; they're 68 percent. 30 percent think that their superiors discriminate in the institutions they work in, and 21 per cent think that they govern according to their whims, and 17 per cent think that they apply psychological pressure. Twenty-five percent feel that their superiors are tolerant, and, unfortunately, 7 per cent think that they are just. Unfortunately, health workers have taken on more and more of their share in the loss of trust, especially when the notion of justice has been lost day by day in each layer of society. Most employees are unhappy with the services offered. When you ask the health workers, even they express that the quality of the services they offer to the citizens is not enough. Health workers have various concerns. 23.2% complain of failing to prepare a good future for their children, 22.5 per cent of being subjected to pressure, imposition, exile, and investigations. 22.4% are concerned about having problems with their superiors. 63 per cent of health workers have expressed a decline in working conditions over the past five years, 24 per cent say there is no change, and 13 per cent say there is only improvement. The economic situation of health workers is full of variable and dissatisfaction. In particular, although we have proposed laws before, they have covered our proposals at the point of returning some of their rights, even though Mr. Bozdağ, who spoke instead of the Minister for March 14th, expressed that the health workers were in a very selfless working environment. Retired health workers, especially physicians, should all know the salary they receive. 1,500-1. The pensions of these people who have to live on $600 must be fixed. Health workers should be given a share of wear and tear. A return capital application must be reviewed, a standard and justice must be brought to the distribution of rotating capital. In particular, physicians who work in the same field where their employment is difficult receive much less rotating capital. For example, when you compare it to a physician working at the centre in the districts of Mersin, Bozyazı, Gülnar, Silifke, for example, the return income from people working in remote areas is much less. Again, it is true to fight to increase the number of medical schools in order to increase the number of doctors that Turkey needs, but the lack of training -- caring for its education -- is evident today. Dear friends, I would like you to know that there are some 2,700 people, especially the head of the hospital, the vice director of health, the branch manager, who have been employed in the ranks of branch managers, who are not praying but cursing you, especially in the central and rural sector of the Law of 663. For example, the salary of a manager who served thirty years in the country has been reduced by about a thousand dollars today. These employees' salaries have been frozen, such an application is the first in the history of the Republic of Turkey. It is not a right and justice to freeze their wages during this period until the newly acquired researchers receive the same salary; it is a practice of persecution, and you must give up this persecution. Again, those who have graduated from the health care departments have been completely excluded by the new order of the law. Similar investigative and title assignments have also been shown in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Ministry of National Education, and they have had no interest and no economic loss. However, I feel that your segregated attitude to health workers is not right and that this needs to be reconsidered, and I salute the High Council with respect.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Bulent Arinc, our Deputy Prime Minister, will respond to the extracurricular talks. Mr. Arinc, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0008par0057	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. Our Malatya MP Ömer Faruk Öz Öz Foundations Week has expressed their opinion in non-responsibility talks, and our other friends have spoken about different issues. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Self, who has shared his thoughts and feelings in connection with the Foundation Week. He, as a member of our General Directorate of the Foundations, has had successful work in the past. And I thank them for these services. Really, on Monday, we held the opening ceremony of our Foundation Week at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey ceremony hall. Here, not only talks, but presentations of successful students who have been studying in the homes of the foundation, along with awards to valuable individuals who have sponsored many scientific meetings this year, as well as sponsors to the foundations. This will continue for a week, and our 25 district managerships celebrate the Foundation Week with various events in their districts. This year we wanted to look at the concept of urbanism and the foundation civilization. In particular, in recent years, we have had new breakthroughs, new models, in part in TOKI, and in part in urbanization with special efforts. We wanted to look at this vision as a historical perspective. Of course, in all services, the foundations, which occupy a little bit of space in an absolute but absolute sense, are an economic, administrative, political, and cultural way that should be evaluated by many services, described as the overall functions of cities. Today, the concepts of urbanization and urbanism are drawn to the issues related to urbanization. However, the basic concept of urbanization and the relationship between society is the understanding of culture and civilization. In the Ottoman era, when the subject of the foundation became a civilization, the concept of the foundation became more important than the concept of the city. The development of urbanization, cities has been mostly around neighborhoods. And then the foundations are built, and the bedouins, and the caravans, and the cities (also) that make up for themselves and give them their identity. The foundation has created such a civilization that it has provided numerous services from baths for poor people without money, to hand out icy water, even sherbet. There are dozens of foundations that allow the development of cities to build sidewalks and bridges. One of the best examples of the depth of the foundation's consciousness is the lighting of the streets by taking the income of the foundation and the lamp and oil. Foundations set up to clean the streets, foundations that pay for street guards, are also examples of the precision of the practice. On the other hand, the construction of numerous roads, bridges, lanterns and castles to provide for inter-city transportation has been made possible through the foundations of mansions and caravansaray facilities on major trade routes, and all maintenance costs have been provided from the foundations. The construction of all of this is to facilitate the journey of merchants and pilgrims, provide road safety, shelter and feed passengers. For example, in the foundation of a Seljuk inn, every class and every religion that comes to the inn must be given food, shoes, and animal oaths. This example is also the most important indication that our foundation civilization has a wide range of tolerance and vision. And on the highways, or in the cities, the inn or the caravans, and in the midst of it are well-guarded, and all around it is well-guarded by a wall. Thanks to these facilities, guests and merchants have been allowed to travel safely, playing an important role in resuscitation of commercial life. In the old cities, public services have been performed through foundations, many of the services the municipalities are doing today. In the beginning came the supply of the city's need for water. Water dams, wells, and fountains were built to build a foundation for this purpose, and they were built to distribute cold water in the summer. Some foundations have built freezers to cool the water of the bears, while others have decided to make profits in their foundation, even far away. All of these issues will be discussed throughout the week, through historical, social, cultural, technical dimensions, and through the symposium and other studies. Dear friends, in summary, we know that our Foundation General Directorate has had admirable services in recent years. Our General Directorate has invested $2 billion,600 million in our country's economy over the last ten years and has employed 70,000 people with it. Between 2003 and 2012, the restoration of 3,750 foundations was completed, with no distinctions between the province and the region across the country. Our General Directorate has the right to demonstrate its efforts to take care of the trusts of our economies. Because of his efforts, I believe we owe thanks to the entire nation of our General Directorate of Foundations, who owns all the staff and foundation works. It's a thrill job, a sense of service, a job of ownership. With that thought, we always express our gratitude to those who work hard. Congressmans, the subject of the foundation, which has been coming to us for centuries, has come to us with a sense of worship, and has made great efforts to preserve, restore, repair these artifacts. I know that all political parties and lawmakers look at the foundations with a warm heart within our parliament, that they know themselves at the point of protecting these trusts, that they are sensitive about the budget of our Foundation General Directorate and the use of this budget. Starting with the Budget Plan Commission, I sincerely discuss the budget of our General Directorate and the fact that everyone is being followed by artifacts that need restoration from their territory. This is extremely important, and I sincerely hope that this effort will continue, that we will be guided, that we will be guided, that we will be brought up with righteous criticism, that perhaps we will be neglected. Mr. Prime Minister was at a group meeting yesterday, and I said at a meeting Monday for the week, an important study will probably be discussed on the committees of our Parliament in the coming days. It's this: if there are those who have been distributed or decided to disband the foundations at certain times, who have been introduced again by their former founders in a particular procedure, who have been legally registered, and who have been referred to the General Directorate of the Foundations -- which, according to our findings -- there will be a clause in which they can return to these foundations again in the coming days without designing a change to our Parliament. And so far, we haven't been able to solve a subject that has been troubled and complained. This is the issue of the insurance of non-altering property, which was given to the rent or assigned to it. Unfortunately, some insurance companies were preventing these artifacts from being insured. Perhaps because of their collapse, their burning, or somehow being eliminated, we were faced with such an impression that insurance premiums would be high. Again, with a clause that we bring in... I would like to read exactly the same thing: the General Director's Office or the institutional foundation, which has been assigned or assigned, must be insured by its users against fire, theft and natural disasters. In these insurance transactions, the cost used in the account of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's architecture and engineering service costs is determined by the General Manager's Office, taking into account the age of the movers involved in moving structures at the price of the unit 5. We make a technical adjustment to ensure that they are insured. Of course, within the commission talks and the General Assembly agenda, we will also be able to address this lack of funds by making the changes they want to make -- as the General Assembly is in control of its agenda. My dear friends, there was an argument at the General Assembly yesterday, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to discuss it with a few sentences. Istanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes and his friends have made an offer to open a parliamentary research commission. So I followed the subject, frankly, from where I was, from the screens. The discussion has come to such a different point that the actual forgotten and unwanted, unwanted talks have been made. So, if you'll excuse me, in a few words, I'd like to bring this to your attention. For one thing, I think the request of Ihsan Ozkes and his friends to investigate this matter is a legitimate request. Because I've read the reason, and it's about a page and a half, and from the end of the day, our friends have written down what it's been like with the court order. So I thank our friends in terms of bringing this up, but I don't think it's the duty of a parliamentary research commission, because when we look at the motive, it's actually very much possible to see the glory here. There's a court order on the matter, and if there's a legal arrangement to consider these court decisions, I thought it would be necessary to make an offer. Now, the issues expressed here may have been described in some ways by our friends who signed for the commission yesterday, in response to the efforts of our other friends to explain the matter. The question is simply: It is a request for religious officials living in the headquarters of the Foundation for Property to stay here for rent or to be asked to pay rent if they do not pay rent. This demand isn't very new, it's been going on ever since. We're still taking rent, and we're suing for primordial cases. For this reason, dear friends, when dealing with foundations, other real estates owned by the national estate should not be considered simply. There's something special about this work, because the foundation should be followed by the constitution of the foundations, which is referred to as the foundation. So in the creation of a foundation... you can build new foundations, you can have old-fashioned foundations, you can have real foundations run by people, you have community foundations, you have every one of them has its own constitution. They write down what he intends to do in this foundation, what needs to be done in order to comply with that purpose, and they proceed through succession. It is also important for the courts to comply with these foundations, if they agree with them correctly, rightly, rightly. In fact, religiously, they say that the foundation -- the condition of the foundation -- is like Nass. I mean, it's absolute and mandatory for people who have religious beliefs. Of course, we are aware that we live in a secular country, but if every foundation has a foundation, it has to be used and run according to its foundation. See, these foundations are important to us, one. Second, we also need to look at the current legislation - the Law of the Foundations. The Law of Foundations has made it very, very clear how these foundations will be in effect. As these demands came to us, we made the situation very clear to those concerned, to those who claimed to be victims of these issues, to the President of Religious Affairs, and to religious officials who claimed to be victims of this issue. However, in response to these notifications, they demanded that they be made without money, saying they did not want to pay for the rent they paid or for the occupation they did not pay for. It may be a legitimate request for themselves, but we've always turned them down. In fact, the strangest part of it is that our President of Religious Affairs, Mr. Minister Bekir Bozdağ, our Deputy Prime Minister, has submitted a law proposal to us in terms of appropriateness. We, the General Directorate of the Foundations, have decided that the proposed law is not appropriate. So we've returned the law proposal that our Deputy Prime Minister sent us in accordance with it. We've returned it to him with the idea that it's not appropriate. Maybe that wasn't discussed yesterday, but I'd like to bring to your attention a few important details for your information. Now, we, in the face of these demands and last... Mr. Ozkes, please come in. I was talking about you, your proposal for yesterday's research commission. My dear friends, it was the Council's decision that we respond negatively to the latest proposal. In short, our decision is that if there is a place in the previous, dated, dated, in any foundation -- that is, a mosque has been established, that is, other things have been done around -- that will be used legitimately in its foundation -- if there is a legitimate foundation in that foundation, we will abide by the conditions of dedication. Whoever's using the law, whoever's sitting in it, won't pay any price, because the foundation itself basically predicted it. If there is a decree that it will be used as a legitimacy in vacations, but if it is destroyed, then it is decided that if there are buildings that are then made by private or legal people in the same place and are now used as legitimacy -- which are shown as a place to be used as a legitimacy -- then private or legal persons have built a place there, and then it is used as a legitimacy -- then it is decided that it will be used in accordance with the terms of the pre-designed legality. However, in the case of the imam and muezzin of this mosque, if it does not sit down, there is a mosque, which has been established by imam and muezzine, based on the conditions of the allocation of legislation, which will be used by the district managers, to be used in accordance with the conditions of the dedication, but they do not live there as a legitimate place. If they don't sit down, we have a decree that other mosques can be assigned to other institutions, including imams and muezzins in the first place. Now, the charities and the flowing foundations are different from us. Akar is the foundation that allows the foundation to continue by bringing rent. The property and property of the foundation are to be appraised by the administration of buildings made by private and legal people without our permission or by the provisions of allocations, and to be set up according to regulations concerning other public institutions and institutions, in the first place. It has been decided that the foundation's legitimate buildings -- built on this different kind of land and land -- should be subsidized under Law 2886. So it's a decision that the mosques make based on their imams and muezzins, whether or not they have this sentence in the foundations and in the foundations of the foundation, based on how to act, based on the examples of our Council of Foundations. On 25 April 2013, this decision was announced to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister representing the Diet, and that the proposed law cannot be accepted because it does not carry these conditions. My dear friends, it can simply be said that in these places, imams and muezzins should sit without rent. That's a good thing, but it's not up to the foundation and our legislation. So we can't say what's not appropriate in the foundation and the legislation, dear, is that they're imams and muezzins, so what if they sit down? Nobody's sorry. They are officials of the state, they are subject to the laws of their own organization, the rights of their rights and so on and so forth, to the best of all the arrangements that were made three or five years ago. I'd also like to say, I don't want to put it this way: so far, the rent rates from our religious officials, which we want to apply or want to rent, are between 50 and 160 lira. I'd like to offer your appreciation that a rent fee between 50 and 160 is not to be insisted on. I apologize for perhaps having to explain this to you all, as a result of Foundation Week.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0009par0083	Thank you, Mr. Arinc. Now, I'm going to make a promise to our friends who went into the system to ask questions. In first place, Mr. Dibek, please, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0010par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there is a factory in the district of Lüleburgaz, Kırklareli Province, Turkey, called Plasko Plastics. Some of the workers who worked in this factory recently became members of the Turkish-PETROL-HIS, which is the union. But you see, in Turkey, unfortunately, at this point, being a member of the union, registering is the same thing as being unemployed, and we're at that point. Four of these friends were laid off on Friday, and 23 of them were laid off today by the employer. Just a week ago, we celebrated May 1st, the holiday of labor and labor. I address the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the bureaucrats, the Minister: these workers are unemployed now, they lost their bread, they have no fault; they used their legal, let alone legal, constitutional rights, so they used their rights to become members of the union. I demand that the Ministry take care of this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0011par0091	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Crescent Tiger...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0012par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there was an unfortunate incident in our province two days ago, in a process that lasted about five or six hours with a very strong smell of gas, leading to the evacuation of schools. It's occupational health and occupational safety week. We have repeatedly stated that these dangers have occurred because of the industrial city of Kopeli. The fact that the leak was observed 24/7 by the main environmental directorate with the online system is the point of thought that one day later the leak would be noticed. In view of the failure of a valve at the Izmit refinery of TIPRASH, I invite everyone to be more sensitive in this regard, on Business Health and Business Safety Week. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0013par0097	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0014par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. On April 25th, a declaration from Kandil. Bloody murderers of the alleged terrorist organization claimed to withdraw will go to their dens in Kandil, where they will follow the constitution of our state and parliament with guns, according to a declaration on April 25th, before the eyes of our citizens and the martyred soldiers and police. We don't consent to the Constitution of September 12 coupters, even though 93 percent of the people have said yes, although it has changed its nearly 140 percent of the time, in the shadow of the juntas and the weapons. Today, there is talk of building a constitution under the shadow of PKK's weapons. Of course, it's much worse than the coup d'états making the constitution. I'd like to make a statement and declare that we will not consent to this situation. I'd like to invite the government to come to my senses on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0015par0103	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. The Anadolu Agency, which served a great deal during the Liberation War, unfortunately became the voice of the government, and even further, it became the Twitter for Mr. Arinc himself. Six days ago, without using Arinc's name, he tweeted inappropriately to our president as if it were his own ideas. However, when the tweet was opened, it was understood that Arinc was speaking. The Anadolu Agency must know its place, the responsible must be warned. The Anadolu Agency must understand that its real mission is the public agency. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0017par0109	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0018par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor Ethem Kurish has recently been suspended from his post in Ankara and has been sent to Antalya. He is alleged to have been relieved of his post due to an investigation carried out by Kurish. Kurish has started an investigation into Prime Minister Erdogan, MIT Undersecretary Hakan Fidan and former Interior Minister Beşir Atalay, which includes allegations of building and managing the KCK, and therefore has been replaced. Prime Minister Erdogan, Fidan and Atalaaj have been identified as suspects in the investigation of Kurish. Prosecutor Kurish believes the transition from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to the TK is a compromise based on Oslo talks and some other documents. The prosecutor therefore launched an investigation into Prime Minister Erdogan, Minister Atalay and Hakan Fidan as the founders of the ACK. When the MIT and the Prime Minister are informed of this, it is alleged that Kurish had been relieved of duty. Arguing is grave and thoughtful. The concerned must immediately inform the public of what is going on. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0019par0115	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0020par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Alevi hostility is spreading rapidly. In February 2012, the houses of Alevi citizens were marked in Adıyaman. A month later in Izmir Buca, then in Şahinbey district of Gaziantep, in August 2012 in Kartal. Once again, the homes of our Alevi citizens were marked, and Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association Cemevi was also tried to set fire. Again, on December 29, 2012, in the Okmeydanı of İstanbul, the houses of our citizens of Alevi were marked and written with a red pen. It is no longer possible to describe these events as isolated events. These events stem from the government's insensitivity and a malfunctioning view of Alevi's belief in Alevi. The continuation of events indicates the existence of an organized structure and the threat is growing. I urge the government to take immediate precautions on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0021par0121	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Tanal, get well soon, by the way.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0022par0124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has informed us of the Foundation Week, and I thank him. The Yozgat district of Sarıkaya district of Yozgat is a 2,000 square-metre-square-square-square-square-square-square-squared estate in the Yozgat district of Sarıkaya province, which has been donated under the condition that this place is a mosque, but has been converted into a tourist hotel in Sarıkaya district. The donor has passed away, and it is sad to see a tourist-purpose hotel open instead of the mosque being built, in contrast to the will of our well-intentioned people. Due to the fact that it's Foundation Week, I would like to extend my regards to the subject.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0023par0128	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0024par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. İbrahim Yazbir, our beloved business man, our President of the Bursaspor Club, has left us yesterday, and we have received a deep regret about his passing. Mr. Printer, who pursued the love of Bursaspor, gave him a great success, gave him a championship, and marked Turkish football history. With his calm personality and self - sacrificing nature, Mr. Printer, who also served as a deputy minister, he will be lovingly remembered both for sports and for service to our Lord Bursa. My condolences and patience to our dear President Ibrahim Yazbi, who we have lost so early, and to all the city of Bursa, and to all its loved ones, including its family, and to all its loved ones.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0023par0133	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0025par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. In Adana, we face extreme heat over the seasons of the last few years. The wheat suddenly matured and matured with loss of efficiency. At the same time, we began to receive extreme complaints from the citrus manufacturers. We want the government to immediately alert the county agricultural director of this matter to assess damage because they say the flowers that opened the citrus growers have fallen out, the fruit that holds them in extreme heat has fallen out, and the trees are now fruitless. And I believe there will be a tremendous loss of efficiency in wheat. We'd like to make a quick assessment of this matter by the Agricultural County Department and ask that our farmers' victims be eliminated. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0026par0139	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0027par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. For several days, mass graves and bones have been found in caves located in Lach Creek in Dersim. Based on the statements of the classmen in the region, we're talking about a region of mass graves that belong to 500 people. We'd like to point out that there is an insensitivity in both the government and the Parliament, as well as the mass graves that have been uncovered by the efforts of their children and grandchildren who have lost their lives in that area. I would like to express that this insensitivity is inadmissible in any way, that both our expectations and the expectations of the people of my class should be made clear to the public about these mass graves and perhaps to shed light on the massacre of my class. In particular, I'd like to remind Mr. Prime Minister that the people of Dersim have said that they need to apologize for the incident, and I would like to say that we are expecting a work plan from both the government and the Prime Minister as soon as possible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would also like to say that the Commission for Human Rights must immediately go to Dersim. To start a study on these mass graves. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0028par0148	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0029par0151	Mr. President, thank you. Just a moment ago, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, they reported that they were talking about what Bulent Arinc Bey said -- I wasn't there, they called me right away -- about what he said about the Eprimisille. By the way, I didn't quite hear, but I wish the law had been offered. I think he had a phrase like that, Mr. Secretary. I think there's a lack of information. I proposed a law on this matter a year ago. In my speech yesterday, I also stated that I had to make a motion to investigate because the law proposal didn't land on the General Assembly. In a moment, I will present to Mr. Arinc a copy of this law proposal. Now, I thank him because there are religious officials who are in a very difficult position to deal with, even if they are numerous. The most obvious example of this is that a religious official in Skopjedar, where I was a mufti, is currently facing a payment of up to 17,000 TL. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0030par0155	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. Off-the-book talk is over. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As for the measures of the farmers in the province of Tokat, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be carried out according to Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98, the Civil Code 104, and 105. [[Slap]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Sakarya]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 11) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] 14) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 15) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kastamon]] 19) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] As in our country's entire country, the situation of our farmer trying to farm in the province of Tokat has become increasingly difficult and unable to farm. The rising costs of seed, fertilizer, diesel and agricultural fighting medicines in agricultural fields have also left our farmer in a difficult position, leaving his field unplantable financially, when the value of the product he produces is reduced year after year under difficult conditions. This has increased migrations throughout the province of Tokat. Since the farmer's products did not pay, they were unable to pay their debts to the tradesmen and banks. In our province, which stands with agricultural-based economy, the farmer is also affected by the tradesman. In our province, the closing of the Teel Cigarette Factory and the quota system, especially for industrial products, are tied up in the hands of our farmer. This affects all our production and consumption sectors from bottom to bottom. When these troubles are united, the farmer who has almost no debt has not left. In addition to all of this, 2010-2011 has not been a productive year for our farmers. First, they lost their crops because of the hailing disaster, then because of the extreme heat. Erbaa district Karayaka, Çalkara, Grape farmers are almost in a position to give up production of wheat, onions, watermelons because their crops are not making money. Zile farmers have damaged wheat. His TMO didn't show enough support for the farmer, the manufacturer sold his product at a very cheap price. The farmers of Kazova and the Plains of Artova are concerned about what they will do about the coming years, what they will plant as a team. In the event that it continues, our farmers have a very difficult future because their product has become unable to afford its costs. This is among the cities that most migrated to major cities, adding new ones to the increasingly unemployed army as they sought a cure for unemployment. He was seven MPs in the 2007 elections, while he fell to five in the 2011 elections. The investigation of the issue by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be helpful to correct the situation of our farmers, who are in this situation both in our province and across the country. That's what our research proposal is for. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The process of full accession with the EU has reached a halt due to various shortcomings and the blocking of some EU member states, while Croatia, which began the negotiations process at the same time as us, has earned full membership, unfortunately Turkey has had to monitor the situation by closing only one of 33 chapters that must be closed. Of course, one of the most important issues in the development, socialisation and progress of the European Union's accession process and democracy in our country is the presence of independent, democratic, fair judiciary. In this scope, it is seen that the opening of the 23rd chapter, titled Justice, Freedom and Security, and the 24th chapter, titled "Judge and Basic Rights" will provide multi-dimensional benefits in the process of accession. The largest of these benefits will be the implementation of judicial reform, which is now a need for democratic, universal principles in Turkey with the majority and frequency of decisions that violate the right to fair trial, the systematic violations of principles such as long imprisonments, the secrecy of the investigation and the causality of innocence. Unfortunately, in our country today, the independence of the judiciary has become suspicious, the practices of special authorities courts have produced many reactions in both the national and international community, and the judicial system, which needs to resolve social tensions and conflicts, has become a point of compromise and tension. It is impossible to say that all of this is appropriate for a modern, democratic society, but the steps that politics should take at the point of solving these problems have not yet been taken. For these reasons, it is with respect to determine why chapters 23 and 24 should not be opened in the EU talks, to determine which duties have fallen on Turkey to open these chapters, to resolve the failures in the judicial system, to investigate the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Malatya]] 8) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] 10) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] 14) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 20) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Performance System, which has been implemented as part of the Health Transformation Programme, leads to impossible mistakes for doctors, health workers and patients due to its injustice. Therefore, with respect to the need to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to address the failures of the performance system and the injustice caused by its performance system, in order to determine the parameters that need to be endured. [[Gaziantep]] 2) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 15) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 17) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 20) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 25) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] The Health Performance and Quality Direction, published by the Ministry of Health on 1 March 2011 and launched in January 2012, has once again revealed the wrongs and dead ends of the performance system that has already been criticised by many critics. In many parts of the world, the goal of the performance system in many different areas is to separate success and failure from the good worker, and thus reward success and high performance. However, it is also known that the system itself causes problems and causes major injustices when it is not planned, not edited, and not well executed. What is happening in our country right now is the clearest example of this situation in the performance system in health care. With the implementation of Performance and Quality Direction in Health and the institution's performance and unit performance points given to hospitals are the most important factor to determine the percentage of hospitals, doctors and health workers will receive from return capital. This is the main reason for the injustice of the performance-based additional payment system. First of all, the interpretation of the city's quality and performance committee, with this rating system at its mercy, the economic power of health workers is being weakened, their motivations are being destroyed. In the end, the working peace between health workers is breaking down. The most dramatic example of this situation took place in Gaziantep last month. Attorney Genghis Gökçek and 25 December state hospitals -- who shoulder 70 per cent of Gaziantep's health care burden -- not only Gaziantep's, but also the region's most ill-treated, operating hospitals with the most major branch -- will be cut off due to the fact that the building is old, for reasons such as its architecture, is less of a "bina new" hospital. This is happening not only in Gaziantep, but all over Turkey, and the response to the system is increasing every day. The labors of doctors and health workers cannot be undone by the weaknesses of the government - appointed rulers or buildings built by the state. Health workers need immediate intervention in the practice of hospital quality points, which have been set in a biased and subjective manner, disrupting their labors, depriving health care. Clearly, the Ministry of Health, who ignores his reactions and injustice by being emotionally sensitive to the situation in order to own his own system, cannot solve the problem. Thus, the problem must be addressed and resolved in all aspects by a research commission under the House. Otherwise, the example of Slovakia, which is the scene of the resignation of 2,000 doctors at the same time and the extraordinary state of health due to unfair and inadequate wages, will be found in our country. For reasons listed above, a parliamentary examination of the Constitution must be opened under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105, in order to address the mistakes of the performance-based additional payment system and the injustice caused by its performance system, to determine the parameters that must be endured. Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday (8/05/2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been proposed to discuss proposals for the opening of a parliamentary investigation of measures that should be taken by investigating the conditions of heavily ill prisoners in prisons (10/548) during the 517th part of the General Assembly's General Assembly's agenda and parliamentary Review. The General Assembly shall be held together on Wednesday 08/05/2013. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the first speaker is Mr. Nurettin Demir, Mughla MP. Mr. Iron, please.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0031par0347	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council's motion to investigate the conditions of the prisoners who are heavily ill in the prisons of BDP, in order to determine their condition and to remove obstacles to their release. First of all, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's a very good research motion. Therefore, I believe this motion will surely be evaluated by our MPs and Parliament. Of course, before we begin, I thank him and his family for their great contributions to our district, especially to the Lord Abraham Yazbir, the former MP of Mughlah, and to the people of Bursaspor, and to his family, and to his family, and to his place, heaven. I wish you patience for the family of this dear brother of ours, our congressman, who we lost so young. Dear lawmakers, I especially condemn the Justice and Development Party's power, which is the cause of this disgrace against our country, the troubles our country faced on May 1st. I don't mind condemning the Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, and especially the governor, using disproportionate force to torture his own people so brutally here once again. Dear friends, of course things are very busy, very busy, following the agendas, but something really interesting is happening in our country. There's a court process going on in Izmir. It's prostitution and military espionage. It's a case that's so interesting that I really suggest you watch and learn from it. Dear friends, there's been a virtual crime and a virtual case. It's really sad that the country's resources, the country's resources, are being wasted in this way, and imagine a coordinator who doesn't know anyone in a case of 375. What kind of a thing is that, guys? In particular, it is my greatest wish that our MP Mustafa Balbay, Mehmet Haberal and other lawmakers, who have been away from parliament for the past two years, will be free as soon as half of our Parliament's four-year term is over, come to parliament and do their legal duties. We need to resolve this matter together by avoiding tears from the crocodile of power. I'm really feeling a lot of shame about this. As members of the Republican People's People's Prisons Review and Watch Commission, we have made nearly 110 prison visits, together with our Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, our Manisa MP, Free Special, so far, with nearly 110 prison campuses, and we have seen, and we have prepared a report as a result. If you read this report, I think you'll see the events of Turkey's prisons very closely, certainly -- vicdani -- you'll do a great accounting of conscience. I strongly suggest you read the patient's report. While the Justice and Development Party favoured its supporters, especially for health workers, while all employees decided their positions, shifts, and working units according to their preferences, such as union, religion, language, race, political party, we, as the Republican People's Party, did not separate any of these visits, we visited everyone without any discrimination, we tried to address everyone's problems. Our only priority is human, and the prisoners are human, so the human rights of prisoners come first for us. Last week, we visited prisoners and prisoners on hunger strike in Tekirdağ Prison. After being on hunger strike for 36 days, the government finally focused on the issue and took steps to satisfy some of the nine requests. My fellow congressmen Süleyman Çelebi, we had an interesting experience in Tekirdağ, where we went with Free Special and Veli Ağbaba, dear friends. When Solomon Çelebi came in, he had a rod, and he had platinum on his foot, and he was singing. It had to be checked. Interestingly, when we go in and ask, every time a citizen comes out of his cell with platinum on his foot, there's a naked search. What kind of a thing is that, guys? I mean, this kind of cruelty, this much, this kind of cruelty? Our congressman, of course, was there, by law, out of control. Not as a naked search, of course, but it had to be checked over and over again from the device. The only punishment for those who are in prison for human rights is the limitation of travel and free replacement rights, and all other requirements must be met equally, equitably, and as necessary. However, the AKP, which has ruled the country for 12 years, has turned prisons into torture houses, I'm afraid. The three-way protocol between Justice, Internal Affairs and Health Ministry, ruled out medical ethics on the patient and the prisoner's rights, and continued to be a source of a series of negativitys that have thus far led to the obstruction of health rights. In the history of parliament, we signed a principle and presented a sad situation in the prisons of the Republican People's Party with the Patient Facilities Report, which we have prepared as the Commission for the Review of Prisons and Surveillance. The number of prisoners and prisoners is greater than the population of Kilis, Tunceli, Ardahan, Bayburt. Between 2000-2011, 2,024 people were killed in prison. Nearly a thousand of these prisoners have died because they did not receive adequate health care. Well, don't people have the right to die in their own home, holding hands with their own loved ones? What is it with us and so many people's rights? The number of prisoners who committed suicide during the same years is 432. As of 2012, the number of deaths occurred in prisons was 73. These figures reveal the fact of the prison. Prisons have become disease-producing sites. Physics is... water isn't flowing, friends, water... so there's no water in our country? Unfortunately, the fountains are broken in the prison we went to. A week, even, twice a week, water comes in, and she only needs it, maybe. Where there's no water, there's no disease? I mean, why do we keep water from people, is water a cause of torture? More than 54 per cent of the patients have more than one disease. The eyes of three of the four prisoners are troubled by indigestion, heart disease, cancer, and cancer. While some patients are being handcuffed to the gurney, others are given medications that give them cancer without supervision. Especially Mete Teeth, testicular cancer, my dear friends, has been waiting 90 days for a report from forensics for a month and a half. I don't know what forensics are waiting for, what they're looking at. I'm a doctor. Why wait a month and a half? Could it be such a political, supportive institution? Now this institution must be corrected. I especially say that in order to address the problems in these prisons, we must go to separate structures of patients, prisoners and prisoners, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0032par0363	Thank you, Mr. Iron. On the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker, İsmail Aydın, is an MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0033par0367	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY against the BDP Group's parliamentary inquiry motion. I salute the High Council. At the very beginning of my words, I ask for the mercy of the great president of our champion Bursaspor, who left us so young. Again, I thank the Honorable İbrahim Yazri, the MP of the 20th and 21st term of our Parliament, for your contribution to our Bursa, especially to the sports community, to express our condolences to his family and to the people of Bursa. Dear friends, the precious speaker who was just here, particularly on the grounds of the May 1st events, has made a number of statements to the very valuable civil servants who served here on May 1st, to our police. In short, I'd like to say that the May 1st was a nightmare in this country before the AK PARTI rule, the events of May 1st, especially from May 1st, or May 1st, which was commemorated in the wake of the events prior to 80 deaths, along with the AK PARTI period, we arrived on May 1st, which was officially declared a holiday in the holiday air. It never occurred to them, especially in the 70s, the 78s, the 90s, to have a holiday on May 1st in the rule of the party, where there were many government partners or public speakers, and to have a formal holiday on May 1st. But during the AK PARTY, with the AK PARTY power, we now declared the official holiday of the employee's sweat, and first, the year before, May 1 -- we all know -- was celebrated in the holiday weather with the workers. But, especially this year, because of the intense construction activity in the requested area, there has been no demonstrations, no walking, even though there has been a ban on demonstrations here, and even though the environment is not available, with several union leaders pushing, unfortunately, unwanted images, unwanted events. It is not right to offend and criticize precious civil servants who have worked hard here, or to be so critical of the precious civil servants who have prevented these events from actually doing their duty. If there's one thing to criticize here, it's union networking, union constraints. If we really wanted to celebrate May 1st as a holiday holiday, the squares had been opened to our fellow workers and our valued workers because of the holiday of May 1st, if we really wanted to celebrate May 1st as a holiday. We also had unions who really celebrated in the holiday spirit. Therefore, I say that it is irrational to accuse government officials here, especially for the reasons of the events in the division. On this occasion, I would like to return to the BDP Group's motion. Dear friends, the dominant approach until AK PARTI came to power has been seen as a problem of bilateral differences, so it is either denial or elimination. Today, our government believes in the need to give everyone in this land their basic rights and freedoms in full, and with that belief, it makes many legal arrangements. The arrangements made during the EC PARTY are a key step towards fulfilling our dream of a more democratic country. Dear lawmakers have finally been given the opportunity to reverse the execution of the prisoner, who, due to a change in Law on Penalty and Security Measures, adopted at the 24 January 2013 session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, could not maintain life alone in the conditions of criminal execution due to severe illness or injury and would not pose a danger to public safety until the execution of the prisoner is improved. The amendment is not only in favour of the prisoners, but also in favour of the prisoners. As a matter of fact, despite the sentence against him, the appeal has been released by the court due to severe health issues in a case that has been closely monitored by the ongoing public. Law 6352, adopted during the July 2, 2012 session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has brought significant innovation in the arrest. However, new regulations have been brought in favour of those who are sick because of the amendment to the Law on Penalty and Security Measures, which was adopted during the January 24, 2013 session. This is the procedure of the Penal Code 6411, which was published in the Official Gazette on 31 March 2013, and of the prisoners who wanted to take advantage of the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures: Transfers are being made to local health institutions on the basis of the petition of prisoners and prisoners who want to benefit from the relevant laws. Hospitals are reportedly ill by health boards, sending files to the Forensic Medical Association to be prepared and sent to Forensic Medicine. Prisoners and prisoners are referred to the Forensic Medical Association according to the date of the appointment given by the Forensic Medical Association. The total number of files sent to the Medical Examiner's Office is 816. The report to 371 of these files has been filed, while the operations of 445 cases are still under way. In 75 cases from 371 cases committed to the verdict, the sentence has been suspended, and the request for the execution of 161 cases has been denied. 3 cases have been granted amnesty. The request for pardon of 96 cases has been denied. 19 cases have been ordered to continue treatment on hospital terms. 20 cases have been decided to be followed at rehabilitation centres. Some of the 445 files in progress are in preparation, while others are expected to be transferred according to date date. These new regulations have been brought as a new reason for delaying the execution of the penal and security measures carried out in Article 16 of the Penal Code. Precious friends, especially with these recent regulations, the conditions of the prison for which the prisoners and prisoners who are sick in particular are not allowed to be treated on conditions of prison alone or to live in such a way, allow the punishments of these sick friends to be postponed. Therefore, the BDP Group's research motion is not valid. In the period of AK PARTY's rulings, especially at the point where problems arise in every category of society, today we have unitedly made many arrangements under the House roof. Especially since it is possible for prisoners and convicted patients to be detained and sentenced until their health is restored, it is my duty to say that we are against the BDP group proposal, with respect to the Supreme Assembly, especially because our parliament has a very busy agenda, especially in our Human Rights Commission.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0034par0381	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Now, in favor of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Mr. Rider, please.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0035par0385	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group based on our motion. I hereby salute your high council. My esteemed deputies have become the fortress of rights violations throughout Turkey. It continues at its speed, with unfair, unlawful, and arbitrary attitudes, by executives who took courage from the government, who continued to block their ears with screaming in prisons. There is no doubt that at the beginning of our problems in our prisons today, the government's insensitivity and inconsistency in the face of the situation and desperation of the sick prisoners. Dear lawmakers, ever since we set foot in Parliament, we have been tirelessly trying to draw attention to the problems of sick prisoners in prisons, and we have prepared reports in that direction. We've shared reports that we've been going through prisons one by one with various institutions and organizations, particularly government officials. We have repeatedly expressed the problems of prisons under this roof that we see as a solution, but the motions we have made have been rejected by the AKP members' votes at each time. Dear lawmakers, the latest report by the Human Rights Association in January contains remarkable information to show how enormous the problem in prisons has become. According to these reports submitted to public knowledge and necessary authorities, 413 heavy patients have been found in prisons. 122 of our friends are now on the verge of death and must be evacuated immediately. Again, according to the report, the number of sick prisoners must be evacuated is 108 people who form the second dangerous group and need to be treated very seriously. Of the remaining patients, 115 have been reportedly unable to treat the conditions of the prison, while 68 have been made up of sick prisoners with various diseases. According to the Human Rights Association report, this problem has become a problem that can no longer be postponed in terms of prisons, which must be resolved immediately. Despite all the negatives that are happening, however, the Justice Department and its relevant institutions continue to play blind and deaf, making their prisons look like roses. Congressmans, these regulations by the government, which continue to play with public hopes with the judicial packages we have forgotten the number, have not been enough to resolve the problem. As a result, Law 6411, which is said to be the solution to human drama in prisons in the government's wing, has been passed by law, but has not passed the length of a barley. As it is known, during the meeting of Law 6411 in the General Assembly, we have repeatedly said that this law will not bring in any permanent solutions to problems and problems, but we regret to inform you that with the government's approach and the law's emergence, hope has failed, and in the end, death reports have continued to come from the prisons. There's a report of a death coming from the prisons. On February 8th, lung cancer Şehabettin Yücel became the last victims of throat cancer Hajji Nasır and only yesterday of Irfan Eskibağ prisons. So, almost one death a week, we face prisons, the AKP government, which almost puts a rose in front of us. We call them victims of punishment because at least these people had the right to give their last breath in front of their families. We say that the Department of Justice and Forensic Medicine are responsible because we can't understand the insistence of these patients to be kept in prisons, which can be determined that they don't have conditions to stay in prison, even the simplest medical screening. Dear friends, in this painting here, I have 413 seriously ill, 82° deadliest... and I'm going to tell you a few of these. Abdulsamet Steel, MDS blood cancer. In 2007, myelodisplastic syndrome (MDS) was diagnosed as some kind of bone marrow cancer. Due to his illness, he needs a continuous transfusion of blood and blood products. You keep a man like that in prison, and you keep making prisons look like roses. Again, the most severe of these is the Halil Sun, for example, with the assessment of the patient's complaints and examination reports, which continued with an osteosarcoma diagnosis from 2002 to 2003, and radiotherapy is being performed. Again, Imam Steeldemir has lost his memory. If a person doesn't have a memory, it's a diagnosis, or this person's license to stay in prison isn't right. He's lost his memory, he can survive in prison with the help of his friends, he can't even go to the bathroom without help, he can starve for weeks without food. He doesn't even have a 2-year-old's memory. So, if we don't consider such diseases, I'd really like to ask how we can rest in our home. Again, among these patients, believe in Gök, İnyet Mete, İrfan Eskibağ -- who has already lost his life, because of you two days ago -- Jesus Yazbasan, Islam Tüner, Ismet Aslan, Izmet Demir, İzzet Teman, İzmet Tekman, Ismet Tzardak, Kemal Gömi; we can't finish on the count. So, I would like you to be a little more sensitive about this, and I expect you to support our motion in the name of humanity, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0036par0400	Thank you, Mr. Rider. The final speaker on the Peace and Democracy Group proposal is Ali Ashlık, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0037par0404	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party group. Since the EC PARTY came to power, there have been very serious improvements in prisons as well as in all matters, not only have physical conditions been improved, but legal regulations have been made. The previous speaker, as our friend stated, was also registered in the legal arrangement that he could be released in case of illness -- with a medical report -- until he recovers. If we as Congress have done our duty, and there are some difficulties with the practice, some problems with it, we need to discuss where the problem comes from, and we need to go over it. If forensics can't do what they want fast, it's the doctors out there, they don't act according to their vows. Then why doesn't the Turkish Medical Association keep quiet or go on about it? Why is it that, since he's a doctor, they don't have the necessary procedures under their professional code?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0038par0407	Forensics is up to the Justice Department.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0037par0408	So, dear friends, when the AK PARTI comes to power, a child who has not finished elementary school yet today; he will finish high school, finish college, get into life, become a doctor, become an expert, and serve this nation. Thus, even though we regulate physical conditions, even if we make legal arrangements, problems from education that have resulted from one form of human growth have often arisen. We need to discuss this very correctly, we need to discuss this in the right place. This problem is also the problem of education. The subject of education needs to be examined and reviewed over and over again the structure to raise people who care about human beings. We took care of it as an AK PARTY with 4+4+4. You've been here all morning trying to block us from commissions. Many of the problems you see are the problems that come from education, friends. Is there a legal obstacle to getting these friends, the sick ones out? No. Then why don't we discuss the matter in the right place? From now on, in order to move Turkey further, we need to discuss problems in order for Turkey to become much stronger. For him, we've made the legal arrangement as the AK PARTY, we've done our duty as Parliament. After this, the problems in the application are that if there is negligence in the mission, you must file a criminal complaint, whoever is affected, the civil society organisations must go over the issues, and as a parliament that corrects the physical conditions of Turkey and helps it with legal regulations, we must all hand-to-hand in order to build a more viable Turkey with NGOs, with other units. So, since we've done our duty, I'm going to vote against BDP's group proposal on my behalf, and I'm going to pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0412	Thank you, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0040par0413	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0414	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0040par0415	I'd like to make it clear to you that he's going to the records.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0416	From here, then, to the transcripts, I'll open it from here.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0040par0417	Now...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0418	Let's not get our period, Mr. Baluken. I mean, you're a...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0040par0419	But, no, the General Assembly is being misinformed.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0420	One moment, sir, if you'll excuse me. You're making a motion. In favor of this motion, there is one who speaks against you. The system doesn't work if you answer anyone who speaks against you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0040par0422	The General Assembly has misinformation.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0423	Sir, there's always misinformation. People defend their thesis, as you know, not because everything they say is true. I'll give it to you this time, but let's not make a habit of it. Please, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0041par0426	There's no need to go to the stand. I'd like to make it clear to you that he's going to the records. Besides, the purpose of our motion would be understood.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0039par0427	Here you go, then. Okay.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0041par0428	Now, the Coroner's Office is an institution of the Ministry of Justice, not a Union of Turkish Medical Medicine. If there's a problem with bureaucratic procedures there, which is where the major obstacles are, the Ministry of Justice has to do what they have to do. Patient prisoners lose their lives in a prison because they have so far been insensitive. In addition to the legal arrangements brought by the EC PARTY, we said at the time that it is not only right to give this authority to the Judicial Type Foundation, but also to give a report on the health ministry hospitals, whether or not a patient will be able to meet their needs. Now, we also have physician friends in the AK PARTY Group. Let's all set up a commission, do some research on the health of these patients, put together a motion to set up a mechanism like this to repair the setbacks. I wanted to fill you in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0042par0431	Thank you. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0043par0433	Mr. President, I especially condemn the ruling party's attempt to place responsibility on a high institution like TTB because forensics has no connection with TTB. Therefore, forensics has become a political and biased institution that has not really fulfilled its responsibility. People die, months go by, but they can't solve a report. If they have a lot of work, they have universities, they have higher institutions, they have to be assigned. That's why we need to get our lawmakers on this research motion, so whoever's got the responsibility comes out. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0044par0436	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Your words have been taken.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0045par0438	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit02spe0044par0439	Congressmans, I'm going to submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 08/05/2013 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The main part of the Turkish Parliament's agenda (10/449) in the section of the General Assembly's Review and Assembly Review (10/449) is "Determination of the measures to investigate the problems of the corn producers in the Chukurova region" and (10/462) is proposed in today's session by reading the General Assembly on Wednesday 08/05/2013 (now) to determine the measures to investigate the problems of cotton producers in the Chukurova region. The first speaker, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, on behalf of the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Dear Varli, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0046par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we've made to investigate the problems of cotton producers and corn producers. On this occasion, I salute both you and our precious people watching over us on their television. Although we've brought it up so many times, it's been ignored, but we won't get tired of saying it, we won't get tired of it, we'll always try to express our farmers' problems and problems. Whether you obey or not, you do or you don't, that's something you'll know, but unfortunately, our farmers are in a lot of trouble. I, too, as a farmer, feel obliged to speak of these woes. Of course, what I'm about to say here is there's no way anyone who doesn't see the soil anywhere but the flowerpot or who doesn't know the land anywhere but the hobby garden can understand what I'm about to say. I, a farmer brother who grew up in the ground and planted a field himself, share these words with you and our precious nation. My dear friends, today, cotton producers are in a great deal of trouble. The price of cotton is now $1.1, which is $1,100,000 in old money. You know, every time you say that, you know, that's how much we pay, how much we support. With your support, cotton costs $1.6, which is $1,600,000 in old money. The cost of cotton's kilogram is between $1,600,000 and $1,700,000. Therefore, it is not possible for the farmer to make money at this cost, with the support you've given him, and at the current price of the product. Hence, the farmer has given up cotton bread. Turkey needs 4 million tons, 4.5 million tons of cotton, and unfortunately, we can produce about 1.5 million tons of cotton. Why? Because the farmer doesn't plant cotton because he can't make money. So, what do we do? We make the farmer of the United States rich, we make the farmer of Greece rich, we bring in imported cotton from there. Today, look at our weavers, and they're right in their own way because they have to make the cheapest product, they have to make the best money. Look, there are no decent people buying cotton from Turkey's domestic market. Why? Because imported cotton sounds more appropriate, more calculated, but unfortunately, as a government, four years ago, two years from this period, I've been screaming it out of your ear for six years now, but it's coming out of your ear. Thus, our cotton producer and farmer are victims, but the cotton farmer of the United States, Greece, the cotton farmer, makes money from the cotton we import with taxes that we pay, and our farmer gives up cotton bread. Why? Because he can't make money, he can't provide for his children. My dear friends, look, at 400 percent of the fuel increase in your power, 400 percent of the fertilizer increases, the cotton still counts at the same price, nothing changes. That's the price of cotton in 2002, but you've raised the mazota 400 percent and the fertilizer 400 percent. That's what the farmer's cost is all about. You're looking at agriculture loans, and agriculture is supposed to be an organization that should be giving cheap fertilizer to the farmer, but it's now giving fertilizer to the farmer over the free market. My dear friends, how do we protect this farmer, how do we get this farmer to produce it? So if we get the farmer to stop production, what do we get? Now, there's another great danger ahead of us. At the moment, the government has granted freedom to import corn from outside to industrial facilities producing starch and glucose. He released imports in exchange for exports. Now, at cheap prices, I'm telling you with the old money, they're bringing in 520,000 liras or 52 cents of corn, and they're supposed to be bringing it in for exporting, but now they're giving it to the inside market. They sell it to feed factories that produce winged animal feed and produce cattle. As they go further, they sell the import documents they have received to those in need by the figures that vary from $30 to $60 a ton. Now, right now, the bait factories are filling with corn, the starch factories are filling with corn, these factories are already buying the farmer's corn, but there's nowhere else to buy the farmer's corn. Turkey needs about 5 million tons of corn. Our farmer's already producing this 5 million tons of corn, but if you import and feed the domestic market and all that needs, on July 15th, the corn harvest will begin on July 30th, where will our farmer sell it? Who's gonna buy this corn? Last year, under the year before, corn was sold at a price. So the previous year, $600,000 was sold last year for 55 cents while the new number was worth 60 cents. Now, if this goes on, if the government doesn't take precautions, unfortunately, maybe this year our farmer won't find that price either. My dear friends, look, I'm screaming from here, please listen to these words: you must stop imported corn from coming to Turkey immediately, or the farmer will not find anyone to sell his property, so he will also destroy the corn. You've already finished the cotton business, so don't kill the corn planters, at least the corn planters will live, so they can earn a penny so they can keep planting and sewing. My dear friends, please, I beg you, if the Minister of Agriculture is listening, please consider this. The solution... you always say, "My solution." The solution is this: block imports by putting funds in them. Right now, you've released imports against exports without funds. You need to stop this import by putting funds in, or the internal market will be satisfied, the feed factories will be satisfied, the starch factories will be satisfied, so the farmer won't be able to sell what he's producing. Look, I've said this danger about wheat before, and you haven't considered it; I've said this danger about cotton, and you haven't considered it, but now we're in the same danger about corn, and I've been right about all of it, and I hope I'm right about corn, and I'm not wrong. I'd like to ask the government, please, stop the imported corn that's coming in right now. If you don't stop this imported corn, my dear friends, they won't be able to find anyone to sell the manufacturer's corn, they'll hurt it, too. And do not be of any benefit to the people who cause loss, nor do they benefit the land, nor do they benefit the family, nor will they benefit themselves, nor will you make our people a rebellious people after that. Please, please take this into consideration. Look, up until a few years ago, the corn producers, the peanut manufacturers, made a few bucks. What did you do now? You import peanuts from China. So let's do mazotta, we're dependent on oil, we're dependent on outer gas, we don't have it, we import it. So, brother, why are we importing the goods we produce? Why don't you stop it, why don't you? So you're just trying to keep him from producing farmers so he can sell farm land? Why so much hostility to the farmer? My dear friends, look, with this import economy, we can't give this country anything, we can't give our people anything. On the contrary, we break the spirit of our people who produce, and we prevent them from producing. Therefore, we are obliged to support our farmers who produce and work hard to earn money. If we don't give this support, our farmer will stop planting bread, so we can't produce it, and because he can't produce it, we'll become a country that's always dependent on the outside. Now -- it's about bonus benefits again -- there are allegations that the farmer has always received bonus benefits in May that this year will be a month late. That's because there's been a study of satellite field detection. It's the right work, the kind of work that prevents people from committing fraud, and I support that, but if this goes past a month, our farmer will be a victim, as our farmer is a victim, our farmer will be a victim of shopping, taking fertilizer, taking diesel, taking drugs, and the trader will be a victim. Therefore, the government must consider this matter immediately. May is when the farmer needs it most. This will hang on June. It is called. Come on, it can wait a month, but if this goes past a month, if it takes two months, three months, then our farmer will suffer the greatest loss. Thus, our people who do business with our farmer suffer a great deal of loss in this regard. I believe you will support this motion. We have farm brothers here, too. Hopefully, we'll agree to this motion for a unanimous investigation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0047par0034	Thank you, Mr Varli. The second speaker on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group is Mr Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç, Adana MP, who is about to take action against him.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0048par0037	Sir, on or against?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0047par0038	Against you, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0048par0039	It's not on him, it's against him.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0049par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's recommendation of the National Movement Party Group. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, cotton and corn are one of two important products for our country's agriculture and for our country's economy. With this importance, the AK PARTY's government has done and continues its work for cotton and corn since its arrival. In the early years of the AK PARTI administration, 2m,100,000 tonnes of corn were produced from 5 million per cent of corn, while by the end of 2012, the corn production area increased to 6,226,000 per cent, while production increased to 4,600,000 tonnes. The yield of corn, which had previously weighed 420 kilograms per detonator, has now increased to 739 kilograms per per decedent. Dear lawmakers, while corn has only been a sari product to certain regions in previous years, it has now been developed in many parts of our country as a result of the work done by the AK PARTY governments. Of course, in many parts of our country, the amount of corn production that has been produced has almost reached a level that can afford our domestic consumption. TECHNIC data shows that our country's annual consumption of corn is 4.5 million tonnes. All the corn we produce is being consumed in the country, and 75 percent of it is used in the bait industry, 15 percent in glucose, starch and oil industry, 2% fresh, 6% in local use and 2% in other areas. Dear lawmakers, product prices have been set before the EC PARTY governments for the purchases of the Office of Earth Mahlusts, which are being made by hand. This system has been replaced by the AK PARTY. Instead, the price of intervention is now being applied. In this way, it has been opened for our farmer to sell the products he planted at a better price in market conditions, and if the product falls under market prices, the price of intervention has been announced and prevented the manufacturer from damaging them. There are also significant changes in the price and cost data of Dane corn. In 2002, the cost of kilograms of corn was $0.249, while the price of sale was $0.25. As of the end of 2012, the price has risen to 0.449 TL, and the price of sale has increased to 0.58 TL. These numbers don't include bonus support. The premium support for the corn producer today meets 13 per cent of the cost. The estimated cost of 2013 is expected to be $0.489 per kilogram. Dear lawmakers, the process of GDO-based products in our country is organised under the Biosafety Act and under this Law. The Biosecurity Act was passed in 2010 during the AK PARTY rule. In this framework, all GMO products are prohibited in our country. The import of GDO-based products for food is never allowed by the Biosecurity Board. In our country today, even if there are dishes, it is impossible to import GMO products. Dear lawmakers, the diversity of products in our Çukurova region is increasing day by day. As the agricultural basin system begins to apply, the development of agriculture-based industry in Çukurova, the increase in export rates especially in the direction of vegetables and fruit, the new dams of irrigable areas, and especially the years of irrigating the Seven-Eye Dam, our farmers are now interested in growing high-profile products in Çukurova. As of 2012, in the province of Adana, 792,289 fields of corn were harvested, where 682.462 tonnes of corn were produced. Of course, we're in a really good position to make cotton. Turkey is the eighth place in the world's cotton production, followed by China, India, the United States, Pakistan, Brazil, Australia and Uzbekistan, followed by China, India and Pakistan, followed by China, India and Pakistan, and is the third place in the world after Australia and Israel. Of course, with the expansion of our country's cotton fields and especially the development of the textile sector, cotton is becoming a more needed product. I had once again promised against the group proposal of the Nationalist Movement Party on November 28th in the cotton field, where I made the necessary statements. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY has done very important work since its arrival in power to remove the problems of our farmer in agriculture. In this framework, important work has been done by the Agriculture Bank to ensure that our farmer benefits more from economic support in the field of agriculture. The Agriculture Bank lent $227m to 28,000 farmers in 2002, while in 2012, 960,000 credits to our farmers were transferred to 19 billion. The interest rates used by our farmer's Agriculture Bank vary between 0 and 9 per cent today when the EC PARTI is 59 per cent before its rulings, and yesterday, as Mr. Prime Minister explained in our group meeting, the loan rates for our farmer have been reduced by 9 per cent to 9 per cent, to 4 per cent, and the zero has been redacted to exactly the same way. Precious lawmakers, the EC PARTY, as it moved towards the horizon line of 2023, set a goal in the world to increase agricultural illegal domestic product to 150 billion dollars, to increase agricultural exports to over $40 billion. In this framework, our work for our country, for our nation, for our farmer continues nonstop. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, due to the intensity of our agenda, the National Movement Party says we will be against the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0050par0052	The third speaker on the group proposal is Hasan Akgöl, Hatay MP. Here you are, Mr. Akgöl.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0055	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal of the National Movement Party group. I hereby salute your high council. I don't think our last AKP orator friend is with the Turkish farmer. I don't understand what values he took, without explaining it, without being around the peasant, and I don't understand it. He's never been to cotton production in our country. We were number 8 in cotton production! Friends, in this country, cotton production meets 30 percent of what we need, so we import 70 percent of what we need from the outside. Ten years ago, I was importing 964 thousand tons of cotton, and now 475 thousand tons... why don't they talk about it? We're a textile exporter country, but we're importing cotton, the most important raw ingredient in textiles. Çukurova, Amik, Harran isn't available for cotton production, why don't we make this cotton here? However, wrong agricultural policies have made the cotton manufacturer unable to plant cotton. As my friend Muharrem just said, we don't want much, put funds in imported cotton, let the inside, the inside, the inside, and then raise the fund, and we'll have a chance to compete. Sir, there's a free market. Yes, there's a free market, but can you create free market conditions? Are we evenly able to produce goods? While I burn the diesel for $4, the man who manufactures it abroad is burning it for $1.50; while I buy the fertilizer for 1.5 liras, the man outside gets 50 cents; my irrigation costs 200 thousand per acre, and the man outside costs nothing. After that, you tell me there's a free market, you have to compete on equal terms. The solution to this? It was in our government program, it was in our election program, and we said, "We're going to remove the KTV in mazot, fertilizer and seed, and we're going to give it to $1." No, sir, you can't. You pay 1,200 lira for a fleet of ships, but he's rich, he's fine, Agha, why give it to the peasant Mehmet Agha for $4? Because that poor man with the fleet of ships, he's a loser!) He needs to buy another ship, but our farmer has to sell another 10 acres to the Agha. Why don't you give the guy with the air fleet, the private plane, the diesel for a dollar and give it to my network, my farmer, my gentleman farmer? My farmer will lift this burden, sir, but the poor man on the other side is a fleet of planes! He needs to buy another plane, we need to support him a little more. That's what we're saying: inputs need to be lowered, and the outside market needs to create a free market. Support... this farmer, he doesn't want support, friends. This farmer wants the value of his property. You give value to this property, don't give support. Today, in the Plain of Amik, in Reyhan, in Hatay, go and investigate. Let the farmer sell his cotton for $2, he doesn't need your support. He doesn't need the money you raised, like a beggar. When you give it away, you're bringing fuses from our noses. Today it is May 8th, and more wheat supports are being received. Sir, he's doing a TUK. The satellite, sir, will detect it from the satellite. How does he know how I water my land? He can't decide for me. The agricultural county department knows where the best place is, and they'll do the job. The agricultural loans, sir, yesterday the Prime Minister explains that we dropped the zirai loans by one point. How does the government's bank get two percent commissions from its own farmer? How does he get a 4% commission out of support? You don't drop the loan, you cut the commission. Cut the interest off the loan, cut the commission on the premiums you're paying. This farmer doesn't need your intelligence, your fitness. Look, during this period of power, the aghast has risen again, my friends. When I used to go to a village and the village was 100 digits, 80 of them were farmers, now, when I went to that village, 20 of them were farmers. Where's the rest of it? He couldn't get along with the land he had, so he had to sell it or put it in. Who? The one who planted the big land. I mean, there's no more farmers left in this country, 20 acres, 30 acres, 50 acres, 3,000 acres, 4,000 acres, 5,000 acres. He, our citizens with 20 acres, 30 acres, 40 acres of land, gave them the goods they had and started working for them as workers. Isn't that the network system? What about social democracy, social justice? Look, we're sitting here, in air-conditioned rooms, in orange seats, very comfortable right now. It's 35 degrees outside.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0052par0064	There's no air conditioning in the rooms.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0065	He'll hang out in your rooms. Don't worry, he'll hang out in your room. So you're too short on air conditioning in the room?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0053par0066	Are you running for Congress somewhere else?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0067	I'm a farmer, I'm not a part of this.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0053par0068	Don't you sit in these seats?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0069	Go, right now, how people plant cotton on land at 35 degrees, how they plant corn, how they sweat their foreheads, how they grow cotton and corn like a child... do you understand that? You wouldn't understand. But we have a lot of friends here who farm, who live on by-products, farm and factory. Why are you guys being so insensitive? Each of us came here with 80,000 votes. Whose rights are we here to defend? We've come to defend this farmer's rights, the peasant's rights. Why are you ignoring this? Do you know how to grow a cotton, a corn? It grows more selfless than the kid in the house. I was saying that the other day, and now I'm saying it. A family man gets sick, he doesn't take his medicine, but when he needs medicine for his cotton, he takes it with interest. Why? So he can grow his cotton properly, grow his corn properly. Oh, well, then, I guess you'll have to pay for this sweat and this peasant's sweat, won't you? Look, guys, we call it corn. Our friends just told me about the corn. Sir, our AKP MP friend is saying that our fields of corn are growing, our production fields are increasing. Actually, his apology is bigger than his fault. That's right, the production and production in the corn has increased. Why did it increase? The cotton field has increased because of its fall, the other crops have fallen, and people have increased because they can't spend money on planting. So let this government decide, what does the farmer in the village do, what does he want to sow? Let him take our place, let him decide. Say, brother, are you going to sow cotton, plant corn, plant clover? What's he supposed to do? Plant pot to make money? He's in that much trouble. Look, there's no man farming in the villages, friends, it's been a work in progress.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0054par0072	No farmer can think of that.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0073	You bring him in, you bring him in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0054par0074	No.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0075	My farmer is honest.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0054par0076	Don't blame the farmers.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0077	My farmer is honest, honest.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0054par0078	You wouldn't think of it for him.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0055par0079	What's with the pot?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0080	He'll do his job...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0054par0081	What's with the pot?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0082	What's with the pot? If you make this farmer like this, everything...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0054par0083	Don't be like that!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0056par0084	They don't understand farming, they don't understand!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0085	You say this to the farmer.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0057par0086	You call a farmer an additive, shame on you!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0087	Shame on you! Farmers don't get that way, fellas. You'll take care of the farmer. 65% of this country is men who live on farming and sweat. You will take care of this farmer. If you don't take care of this farmer, you'll end up with a business that depends on it, and you'll end up with an industry that depends on it.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0057par0088	You insult the farmer.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0089	This is a country of agriculture, you have to take care of the farmer in this country.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0058par0090	Apologize to the farmers, sorry.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0057par0091	You're turning farmers into heroin dealers?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0092	You don't think you're raising the farmer by raising a penny, by doing this, by making the farmer a beggar.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0058par0094	Apologize to the farmers.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0095	I'm a farmer, I came from the inside, okay? I'm a farmer, I don't apologize to the farmer.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0059par0096	Apologize to the farmers.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0097	That's what you did with the farmer.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0060par0098	Apologize to the farmers. You're saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0099	You made the farmer think about planting pot. Oh, okay?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0061par0100	Guys, let's hear it. Please...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0062par0101	Apologize to the farmer.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0102	I'm a farmer, and I'm going to apologize to myself? I used to enjoy my cotton when I went to my village, and when I was watching that cotton, I thought I'd get paid for the sweat, and now, I don't want to go into my village and go into the cotton field, you know? I don't want to go to the cotton fields. You have no right.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0063par0104	I think you should take that back.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0062par0105	Take that promise back, take that promise back.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0106	You have to pay for this effort. You have no right.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0063par0107	You're saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0051par0108	I'd like to extend my regards to all of you, saying that we would support this research motion by my fellow nationalist movement. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0064par0111	You managed to get the farmer and the pot together!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0065par0112	Thank you, Mr. Akgöl. The last speaker of the group's proposal, Hüseyin Şahin, is an MP of Bursa. Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0066par0116	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by wishing you all a good day. I have made a promise against the group's proposal of the National Movement Party, but first, yesterday, our President of the Bursaspor Club, Mr. İbrahim Yazbir, has lost his life. At the same time, he was a member of parliament in the 21st term. Therefore, I ask God's mercy on our congressman and our club president, who had the honor of serving our country in Parliament, and who had the honor of serving our country. I also offer my condolences to his grieving family and to my very dear fellow sportsmen from Bursa. At the same time, there was a great deal of service to football in Turkey, and I offer my condolences to the Turkish football community. Dear friends, my dear friend in the corn department, Mr. Şükrü Erdinç, has made some valuable statements, but my friend, the congressman who came out before me, said some things by agitating a little bit and adding a little bit of drugs to the work. But we can never, ever bring a Turkish farmer, a Turkish producer, a Turkish peasant, next to marijuana. Our farmer is never, ever low enough to think about making pot, and he's self-conscious about it, self-sufficient, more than anything else. I want to give you some numbers here: Turkey is the eighth place in the world's most significant cotton production, and it is also the fourth place in cotton consumption, and it is the third place in the efficiency of cotton. We've increased our efficiency in cotton production, even if the fields of cotton production are narrowed down at a certain rate. Thus, in our country, the production efficiency of products has increased, despite the narrowing of the field efficiency, on a scale, on a scale, on a scale, after the AK PARTI governments have given their support and watering services to our agricultural workers, particularly on watering agriculture. Dear friends, the AK PARTI government, which supports our Turkish farmer as much as $10 billion, also gives various supports to the cotton manufacturer. It's going to be -- it's going to be a little analogy, but -- the blunt cotton bonus is in 2002, the certified one is at 9,35 cents per kilogram, 50 cents for 2013; you calculate the difference, five times the amount. The total cotton support payments were 140 million Turkish liras in 2002, while the support we paid last year reached $1 billion, 124 million. I want to give you another number here: In 2002, only 10 billion Turkish dollars from the Turkish government budget is earmarked for investment, while the AK PARTY government only supports its farmer for 2013, friends. So I'd like you to compare the value we've given our farmer and the support we've given our farmer. Of course, since cotton has increased exports of textile products, textile industry has been highly developed in Turkey, and our textile industry has been forced to feed on imports due to its use of cotton in production. See, there's an interesting number here: we import 549 thousand tons of silk in 2002, and we export textile products for $4.5 billion. We've got last year's numbers, 2013's figures, and we don't have them yet. See, in 2002, 549 thousand tonnes of cotton were imported while the import in 2012 was 618 thousand tons. There's an increase of about 10 percent in cotton imports, but our increase in exports is about 1.5 times; $11.7 billion. So we see from here that both our manufacturer, our industrialist, and our agricultural farmer, are winning to make our imports industrial, to make our country a positive value by creating and making our country a positive value. Dear friends, in 2002, we provided 70 percent of our need for cotton seed use from domestic seed production, and in 2011, we met all of our needs from abroad. So, we've reset the imports of cotton seed within ten years of our need, and we've become interested in domestic seed production. With the support provided, the certified seed use rate of cotton production increased by around 45 percent in 2002, while in 2011 it increased to over 85 per cent. I want to say good-bye from here in the words of the great Ataturk, who is the master of the village. We all came from the village. We all have a village in our faces, in our father's father's and in his grandfather's. We migrated from there to cities, and then we became urban, but by industrializing, industrializing, we're doing everything we can to make sure that our country is at the level of troubled civilizations, nations. Hopefully, our country will be among the 10 major economies of the world within its 2023-year goals, with its predictive policies, with the support of the EC PARTY government in every field. And hopefully, if we have a lifetime, we'll see together, we'll see that our national income is up to 25,000 dollars, that our enriching people have developed in parallel to economic enrichment, and in many ways, socially, culturally, where they come from. I salute you all with these thoughts and feelings, saying that we are against the proposal of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0067par0127	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0068par0128	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit03spe0067par0129	Now, I'm going to put the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... There's been a disagreement between the clerks. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0067par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt and his friends on Article 19 of the Law Bill 452 was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Now, I'm going to read the next motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "five hundred times more than one thousand times more" in Article 3 of Article 19 of the 452 Ordered Postal Services Bill. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0069par0012	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0067par0013	Read the reason, please. In the form of the bill, it is not enough to deter those who send non-acceptable substances by post and those who act against Article 7 provisions. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to have a higher rate of criminal action in the text of matter, and it would be a deterrent of posting prohibited shipments in the mail. That's what the motion was intended for. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 19 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Postal Services Act (1) be changed as follows. ▪ 1) Any administrative decision, action and transactions of the institution can be prosecuted in an executive court. Any lawsuit against the institution's decisions and procedures is considered a priority. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şafak Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 1 of Article 20 of the current 452 Sorted Postal Services Act be removed from the text of the article. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0070par0038	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 20th Amendment of the Law Bill 452 rows under discussion. I salute you all. In my previous talks, I explained that every time I came out, PTT employees were seriously disturbed by this law. Unionist friends, Orhan Avcı and members of the Board of Directors of Turkey's HABER-SEN Bureau came to Ankara on Thursday. And today, around 11:00 a.m., at a press conference in front of the House, they sent their wishes, their wishes. From there to here and on the roads, the demands they expressed in front of the House are on two counts. One is that PTT is not Ash, and the other is that they are given the share of wear and tear, the share of their rights. Of course, the reason why PTT is not wanted is because the speakers and PTT workers here are opening up the privatisation of the privatisation, but when we ask Mr. Secretary General Manager, they say they will not privatise Mr. Secretary General and Mr. General Director PTT. Look, we have traditions in some places. If there is a girl who has reached the age of a wedding dress, she will have certain symbols on the door of the house, on the chimney, or if she has a son who has grown to be a groom, there is also a son in that house who is old enough to be a groom. There are certain symbols. Now, in the applications we've seen so far, we haven't seen an anonymous company from public institutions that hasn't been privatized. So after this law comes out, we're going to tell the door of the PTT (PTT) that we have an institution that is ready to privatize. Thus, the fact that this is Ash will pave the way for privatisation. Of course, PTT's actually doing some serious private business with the private sector. In addition to buying services, banking transactions -- in particular, that's because it's spoken so much -- are doing a lot of volume work with the String Group through Active Bank. The commissions there always talked about the troubles. Again, again, in order to increase UPT transactions, for any reason, PTT workplaces are being pressured to send personnel from tax offices, executive managers, courts, etc. to public institutions, instead of doing postal checks for institutions, by signing a statement signed by the head of the Parasal, Post Office, the citizens' statements to the above-named institutions as UPT. Dear lawmakers, the PTT (PTT) must give up such wrong practices at once. I, you know, I don't want to bring this up all the time, but this institution where the Prime Minister's son-in-law is the general manager... Look, from the end of 2006 to today, the assets of the banks in Turkey have increased by 2.5 times, while the Active Bank's assets have grown 45 times in four years, so it's almost reached the Guinness record. Mr. Secretary, as soon as possible, I'd like you to give those rights to the staff, not to such practices, but to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0071par0045	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 20 of the Postal Services Act (1) be changed as follows. ▪ 1) Any administrative decision, action and transactions of the institution can be prosecuted in an executive court. Any lawsuit against the institution's decisions and procedures is considered a priority. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0072par0058	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, regarding PTT services in the next 452 rows, however, due to Christmas, I sent Mustafa Balbay, our Izmir MP, who was arrested in Silivri Prison, our Zonguldak MP, Mr. Haberal and the Chief of Staff, a Christmas card. The address is exactly like this, Mr. Secretary. Because you're the Minister of Transport -- and at the same time, the Undersecretary -- of course you have to answer for this. The exact address in Silivri Prison is: After writing a name, the prison of Silivri, Silivri/Istanbul. These letters come back as they were. The reason he came back is due to lack of address. Now I'm asking Mr. Minister and Mr. Government: A letter from Imralı Prison to Kandil. Without an address, a letter is delivered from Kandil to Imralı.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0073par0062	Bravo!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0072par0063	As Mahmoud Tanal, who served in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is the address of my letter clear and clear, transparent, Mr. Secretary, is this a clear and transparent address?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0074par0064	Special messenger!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0072par0065	In this respect, both the freedom of communication of an MP, the freedom of communication of PTT services, and the freedom of communication of the inmate to the outside is violated, so, of course, when this bill passes, it's likely that the disasters that can happen will be different. Yes, what is the purpose of privatisation? The purpose of privatisation is not to look at public service for profit, economic profit. In public service, it must be carried out according to the principle of meccanicism of public service if there is any harm done. 1) Creating employment. Is there a field to create employment here? 2) Increase tax collection. Here, the tax can be collected enough as it is. 3) Obstructing non-registered work, increasing efficiency. When we look at it, really, in this case, the PTT business, yes, has already created the field of employment, where the tax is overassembled, there's no record of it. If one of the goals here is to create employment space, when you look at all of the privatisations so far, most of the privatisations in Turkey are already going to land prices, and those jobs are being shut down, tax is not being collected, income increases are not being made. In this respect, we're having a really stressful situation. Here, the key thing in this bill is that when we submit to the special provisions of the Turkish Trade Law, one of the provisions brought by the Trade Law is bankruptcy. Due to the commerciality of the transactions, there is no guarantee that can be brought to the citizen, so he will be deprived of that assurance. (2) The principle that you have brought from the third joke, the principle that you are free of charge, the principle that you are entitled to, according to the 10th article of our Constitution, is equal to all persons, institutions, and organizations. (2) In the third joke, the introduction of immunity from this guarantee and this allowance would also violate the principle of equality, which is not really acceptable. Here is another disadvantage that this could lead to being subject to the Turkish Trade Law: the bankruptcy of this company or the decision to postpone bankruptcy will also be victimised by third parties, which is not acceptable. So far, most of the already privatised institutions and institutions have gone beyond the privatisation goal, none of the privatisation objectives have been achieved, and in this sense, this bill does not really serve the purpose that should be in the state of law. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit04spe0075par0076	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 20th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the first section are complete. I'm taking a lunch break until 8:30. I'm calling this session off.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 452. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter includes the 21st, (2)th, (3)th, (4)th, interim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10th articles, including the second article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Haydar Akar is the MP of Alexandria. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0076par0010	Mr. President, we continue with the law on the liberalisation of PTT. We've explained in our previous conversations, we've come up with a new concept of emancipation. We started with TCDD, we're going with PTT. In fact, this new concept is a deception. Of course, as a result, I think we're all going to have a privatisation story together. Of course, if you look at PTT, it was founded in 1840 and became a brand. When you say PTT, it's been the organization that we've been able to deliver our problems to someone else who's been serving us ever since, who's been in touch with the citizen, who's been able to deliver our cards or letters, but it's developed itself over time, and it's come to this day. It was a brand, and he left his T.L.A. on the road. Mr. Secretary, you weren't here yesterday, so let's make it better. I said, not to talk behind your back, but to repeat what I said: you sold the phone, you freed the State Railways, you will soon privatize it, you will sell it. You're sending PTT. There's not much left for you to do. Now the third term is over, and there is no bread in Izmir. In fact, you're a hardworking minister, and I'm wondering what you're going to do next. I asked you a question. You weren't here, I didn't get that answer. I hope you find another line of work after this. Let's hope you can help. I hope so. PTT, as we call it, has been a giant since 1840. I mean, it's a corporation called family companies today that has even greater jobs than the firms that have tax records, about 37,000 people working. 1,089 officers, 27,317 contracts, 8,644 subcontractors, 789 permanent workers, only 789. The PTT point you brought in 11 years is 789 permanent workers, 8,000 subcontractors. You subcontracted all of Turkey. State Railways, PTT, other institutions you sold, institutions you didn't sell, you subcontractorized everyone. However, PTT is a monopoly, of course, when you're liberalizing it, privatizing it, what are you trying to do in all privatisations, as you say? We open it to free competition, we break it down, and as a result of the monopoly distribution, prices will go down as a result of free competition, people will get better services and quality services. You say that, but what you want to do with this law is to privatize the monopoly in PTT, so when you sell it after a while, it will not go out of the monopoly, just like in TELECOM, and PTT will be in the hands of private individuals. Now, monopoly and cartelization are a condition that should be prevented by the state according to Article 167, but right here the state is doing the monopoly itself, adding a few more issues to certain issues of monopoly. That's not true, of course, according to Article 167, which, if it's to be privatized, should be removed from the monopoly situation, it should be open to free competition. Many of my friends and I have discussed the problems of liberalisation, the problems of liberalisation, or privatisation, and PTT is serving under four main topics today. One of them is logistics, which means he's shipping cargo. He's a telegraph operator, he's not much use these days. That's damage to two titles, PTT. Besides, there are two other titles: banking and mail. What's banking when it's postal duty? Now, we're going to tell you in a little while why banking is being done, so PTT banking... I mean, it's not doing its own functional work, it's essentially doing its job, it's hurting them, but it's slipping into other areas, it's trying to do it. There's an automation attached to it. Gee, I've been busy with this for years, and I don't know what PTT will do with automation, but we'll tell you in a little while why they're adding an automation. Now, a lot of people say that when you're liberalizing, when you're privatizing, you're emptying the institution. No, you're actually filling the institution. You're making big investments, and then after that, you're trying to buy and decorate it, and then you're trying to sell it. That's what happens in this one, too. In about eight years, in nine years, 640 million TL PTT was invested. $640 million... well, is this institution hurting? No, this institution doesn't hurt. In 2010, 143 million -- 143 trillion old coins, just to be clear -- and in 2011, 174 million profits. What do you want from this institution? Why are you trying to sell it? Why? I'll tell you: as you do in all liberalisation and privatisations, not to make a new investment to cover your budget deficit. Every year you receive your budget deficit by selling public institutions and institutions of the state. Now, of course, we told him that the company had been robbed of banking and automation, leaving the business of mail, telegrams, and cargo. The PTT (PTT) has about 4,300 branches, 4,300 branches. Look, people in these departments have been complaining a lot lately. You know why? PTT's been doing other jobs that are basically out of business. He deals in money transfers, he deals in loans to pensioners, or he deals in marketing a bank's cards. Now, yes, he sells a lot of things, PTT. He gave up his original function. Now, we're in the money transfer business, and he's signed the money transfer to a bank. The bank doesn't have one branch. It's so beautiful that 4,400 branches are at your disposal. Do you know which bank this is? Active Bank. Which group does the Active Bank belong to? So, let me be clear, it belongs to the String Group. PTT deals with it, banking transfers money through it. That's not enough, PTT is doing something else, providing loans to employees and pensioners who are paid by them, brokering loans. It says: I broker this loan, but I also made $6 million in money from this brokership, but the bank lends 770 million. Do you know who this bank is? Active Bank. Depends on where? It's up to the band. It's not just this bank. Now you can say: "Haydar Akar only brings forward one bank. " They've signed with two banks, friends. They also signed Citybank, but there's a loan volume around $7,000. The other one has $770 million in credit volumes. Now, like I said, PTT's got a handle on developing technology. It says, "There's technology, don't write the mail anymore." It says, "Don't write it by hand." It says, "Don't send it by hand." I thought I'd give it a shot. It's called Hibrit e-mail. You guys know what a hybrid e-mail is? You're preparing a word document here. You're gonna have to send a bunch of them somewhere. They say: 'Scan this and send it to us in this format. You're sending it to us. I did it, I tried to send it to 550 chiefs, they couldn't do it here for three days. When I went to town three days later, I found all my things in the box. A week later, sorry, three days later, I went into town, but a week later, I found it because there was no mayor. You know what the money is for that? 132 million liras. What is this 132 million lira? 132 trillion liras. What is it? It's a hybrid. You'll write from here, where you send them, they'll come out of the server, they'll take it from the printer, they'll envelope it, they'll auto-label it, they'll address it, they'll reach the citizen. 132 million liras... they got two offers. Who did they get it from? They bought it from two Star Enterprises companies. Who is this Star Enterprises? The Pleiades Group. Two offers... Now, he's on automation, our CEO. He said, let the IT guys do all the work. As a PTT, we do this automation thing. We have KGS. And what else was there before? He had OGS. They also brought HGS, called it the Fast Transition System. Why did you do that? To make it go faster. Right. What's different from OGS? They're both working with the targ. You stick one to the window, one in something... they call it the smart tag. They couldn't get them both to work at the same time. They're trying in Izmir. They spent $22 million on it. Gee, I already have OGS, so why are you dealing with something else under the Fast Pass System? You put it on the window, you change it again, you do a ton of work when the glass is broken, of course you do all of this, and then we come back after that, and you say, after you've invested so much money, after spending so much money, and after you've made a profit in 2010, in 2011, let's go free it, and then wrap it up. I'm saying they're more or less obvious. Another dimension: I'm also complaining about PTT. Why should I complain? I called the general manager a year ago, and we need a PTT branch in our Kafken district. In summer, the population is 40,000. I said. Mr. Deputy, I'll look into it. I'll be back. I told him about the pain. He was on a bench, you moved the city, I told him about it. I went back and told you a year ago, Mr. General Manager, I'll turn around and give you information. You said, "I'm still waiting for you to give me information, I'm still waiting for information." I hope one day you'll give me that information. And you've left all the work, you're collecting bills from the institutions you've privatized, you're taking $1 from the citizen. Why are you taking this money? When I privatized those institutions, did he say, "What about you, you're going to remove your cash, I'm going to collect your money from the citizen, I'm going to charge you $1 per transaction?" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did they give these prices when they privatized them to save people or, you know, save time and space? It was all in there. I'm talking about why you're collecting money from this citizen, these bills. I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0077par0030	Thank you, Mr. Akar. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0078par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, it's just us. Some of our friends haven't come back yet, so we're making ourselves a law. I just told you...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0079par0037	He's going to the records.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0078par0038	Of course, what you're saying goes away, it's all history. Mr. Elitaş, I'm telling you in particular, you can now take the word... that this is a challenge, that all sides are closed, that you can give as many presidents as you want, and that you are one of the ones who prevents the legislature's legislature activities from being public. He's on the books, too. I congratulate you four times in a row -- by taking the word out that you've only allowed us to talk to a few interested or forced friends at this time. But these are very important things. We just asked some questions, Mr. Secretary, last night. All our friends here, the ones talking about the stuff, they said some things. Of course, we all wish to make arrangements for all of our institutions, if it is necessary for them to work more effectively. That's why I'm telling you, instead of doing legislature work, we're occupying this place with a bunch of useless stuff, and then we're pushing it to a certain hour in the middle of the night. I've just asked Mr. Faruk Çelik, in the Commission, again: "You are the Minister of Labor, are the MPs human or not?" I said, "He laughed." Do they have human rights? Did you sign them? You signed it. We left after one hour yesterday. Now, that's because of your imposed attitude, dear friends. If there's going to be a law, it's going to have to come after it's been discussed and matured. For example, what part of this bill are we talking about? We're talking about autonomy, privatisation, so structurally, we're talking about the financial size. Mr. Secretary wasn't here yesterday. Since 2008, the Court says: "The accounting, the financing branch, the head of the supply office -- none of them have been audited." Now, we're talking about financing. Two: what did I ask? What about the personnel rights? He'll be encouraged, I don't know. So, what is it? It's about money, it's about the budget, but it didn't come to the Plan and Budget Commission. For him, they needed to be discussed in advance, and after they received the opinion of the required commissions, the necessary institutions, and even the unions, work on personnel. If Mr. Secretary answers after the department, there are questions we've asked, but we'll ask them. Mr. Secretary, I know it's my duty to warn you once again that when you were here, we had another minister yesterday, our bureaucrat friends took notes. In particular, I don't find this PTT Bank story very healthy. So the other, when there's privatisation of personnel, we do it normally, we put it in the pool. You can say, "Well, then it's solved, we don't privatize it yet." But it's still a concept that I don't understand. PTT, the bank? How does he provide banking services? What does he do with the contracts he makes with them? What bank does he do it with, what bank doesn't he do it with? Do all banks operating in Turkey agree to offer bank services with them if they want to? PTT Bank sign, before permission, after leave; how does this work? I mean, without permission, how do we call it the bank, like a bank transaction, and then make up things that come up? I said PTT is not a banking job because the Bank of Agriculture stands, and the Bank of People stands, and we will privatize it. Here you are, sir, buying and selling the share of the Zakafbank, and selling the foundation's treasure. You say, on the other hand, the PTT bank... what do you mean, the bench? What's he giving you? Sir, we made something up in there, and we got an indirect warrant from banking. This one, he's going to do these services, he's not going to do the other banking services. But you're doing it on behalf of the bank, but is it your job to do banking or postal services? So when you're privatizing all the institutions, you're saying: "It's not done by the state's hand." Why are you doing that? It's not your job! Banking's already privatized, so there's an agricultural bank out there if he wants to, so I gave him a heads-up. Mr. Secretary, yesterday, I told you -- for example, I don't say as a company name -- that the wire system was one of the key tools of money laundering around the world, a partner I had done before I became a congressman abroad, and I learned from the technical authorities during the work of Turkey and Germany, and I know that the system was still being used. So I'm also curious to see how much PTT will have to do in the interest of a bank that has five or six branches in Turkey instead of banks that don't have branches. It's not our job, let it go. And you're autonomizing it, almost preparing it for privatisation, like the Bank of Provinces, but you're still looking at us to provide some more services. Stop doing other people's work, make arrangements. You're authorizing the telecommunications agency, so let's organize them and check something out. But you can't be a banker that BDDK doesn't allow. We'll point our ears in the back and do a box office in their name! Why would we do that? How much are you doing? So the Court had a thing about Antalya. Now, my friends showed me a picture. Look, I'll show you. This shows the tollbooths of the PTT, Minister. I mean, it's beautifully done, no problem, but there's two of them at the beginning, taken during normal work hours -- so there's two or three of them. Eight or ten of them are empty on this side, so there's nothing. They sent two things from two different angles, so pay attention. Oh, here's what I'm saying. There's places, there's places, there's lots of places. They even criticised them, and they're old. There's also what they call them. Mr. General Manager knows because he's been in the court's report. Find a place at the center instead. They say it's not my problem. As a matter of fact, I don't think it's right for PTT to go into such separate services, to do banking. Sir, we've run out of other functions. I don't understand this. I mean, is PTT's goal to profit, to profit by taking someone's job as a private sector, or is it to perform a public service to ensure our right to communicate, our right to communicate, as we have been given in the Constitution? So, come again... what are you doing? What is our purpose, and what are we trying to do? That's what we're worried about. Let's not try to multiply our jobs by taking over what's none of our business. On the one hand, you're saying, well, let's avoid monopoly. On the other hand, we're redecorating other transactions, we're doing other jobs. Well, that's not our job. Anyone wants to go to the bank, set up their branch wherever they want. The bank, which has no branch, has a common network of agricultural banks, goes there, makes a reporter's agreement, does it himself. The job of the PTT (PTT) is not to be a banker. The job of the PTT is to go and only collect the bill... and now he's going to say: "I'm making money from him." Your first job is not to make money. As a PTT, you're turning your business into a business, I'm going to make money according to the Trade Law. There's always a lot of people, companies, people who can make money on anything. So instead of what we're selling, we can rebuild our own government monopoly, we can edit it. That's what you're telling us yesterday -- the European Union or something -- that's what you're telling us, and there goes the monopoly. On the one hand, we're creating a private monopoly as he lifts the monopoly. It's against the law of competition, it's against the Constitution, it's against the normal arrangement of the BDK, it's taken an indirect leave later, something so exceptional, in quote, quote, quote, quote, quote, quote. So let's rearrange these in order to address the problems of the staff, which I've just stated. We did it in a hurry. You're coming to reason. We're seeing another bag upstairs. Right now, our friends are on the Plan and Budget Commission. We don't know if it's 12 points, 22 points, and we don't know what. Half are related to the Ministry of Labor, the other half are concerned with four or five separate ministries. And how many times do we change it? The Law of the Court waits above, waiting to be changed. How many years have you been out? A fight, a fight, we forced him out, a change of clothes, a change of pace. So, as long as we don't discuss it like this, without looking at its purpose, as long as we rush into what our friends bring, unfortunately, there are freakish laws. And then when problems arise, unfortunately, it's not possible to change them when we want to. So, come, let's run the coven properly here, and let's keep this in plain sight. In the daytime, I'm blocking the agenda with boatmen's quarrels until a certain point, and then until one o'clock in the morning, until two o'clock in the morning, when the law says, "Let's give up the talks."
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0080par0045	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Third speaker for the groups, Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0081par0049	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on the second part of Postal Services Act No. 452. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers are a public economics organisation that will celebrate the year of the 174th organization on October 23rd, serving more than 40,000 employees, more than 4,000 businesses and more than 200 types of transactions. The PTT, which also had Turkish TELEKOM until 1994, was redeveloped as two separate general managers by Law 4000, and a 55 per cent stake of Turkish TELECOM was transferred to the Lebanese-based Oger TELEKOM for 21 years in 2005. PTT is also affected by the government's privatisation policies towards public institutions. A significant portion of the services previously provided by institutional resources and staff are now being provided by the method of buying services. Out of postal monopoly, the distinction, distribution, transport, security, cleaning, cargo, coli acceptance and distribution of other services and other services are some of the institutional services used by means of chartering fleets and buying services. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers we are meeting today are asked to be converted to an anonymous PTT company with the Law Bill 452, meaning the privatisation of PTT. The opening of PTT (PTT) to market conditions and competition depends on the Turkish Trade Law, and is intended to be restructured and converted into an anonymous company according to the market economy. As a matter of fact, the President of the Privatisation Administration's statements are in that direction. The fact that PTT is a highly profitable institution shows quite clearly the reason for the efforts to privatize it. At the end of 2003, PTT increased its profit of $22,891,000 in eight years to 174 million and 39,000 euros at the end of 2011. In 2008, when the effects of the world's economic crisis began to take place, economic downsizing has also shown success in making its profits at 230 million TL in 2009. Although technological developments and the spread of the Internet suggest that postal operations will fall, the assessment of the sector shows that the online e-trade applications will bring postal operations to a significant point as part of logistic service. In such a case, PTT will be expected to increase in profitability in the coming years. In 2004-2011, the total investments amounted to $617.5m and the investment fund of 2012 is 140m euros. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers will influence the most employees to remove PTT (PTT) from the status of public economic initiative and to convert it into an anonymous company in accordance with the Turkish Trade Law. Article 29 of Article 29 of the bill (2) is the right to make any demands concerning PTT services and to sue them in situations in which PTT is responsible. It is said that the rights of trade unions and NGOs to obtain information are taken from them. First of all, there is a legality problem in PTT, as the bill is prepared behind closed doors, which is not subject to the opinions and suggestions of employees due to organised unions. It is not possible to accept that a bill that opens the way for privatisation of a public institution and also eliminates the achievements of the workers and the public. Decided to sign contracts with the actual and legal people or to buy services for division and distribution of mail, on the basis of Article 25 (e) Article (3) of the bill titled the Governing Body (e). In this context, PTT will sign contracts on operating and service areas, allowing subcontractors to conduct all their activities, including legal monopoly service, through the exploitation of subsidiary contractors who work at minimum wage. After PTT was turned into an anonymous company, the company's management has the authority to hire staff, lay off, assign promotion fees, determine working conditions and hours. However, the working conditions and wages of employees employed in a public institution are regulated by law. In the Mail Service Bill, the authorities that are not in the existing laws will be granted to the PTT AS Executive Board. Such authority will certainly lead to further problems in working life, and even the risks of existing gains are high. The board of directors on many issues such as job guarantees, organisation, scheduling, hiring, layoffs, pensions, financial and social rights is asked to be given extraordinary authority, regardless of existing legal regulations. If the bill is enforced and enforced as it is, it will set an example for other public institutions. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the employment structure of the PTT (PTT), the main body of employees constitutes contracted personnel in accordance with Code 399. While staff in the position of manager and senior executives employed under the Law of State Officers No. 657, the number of employees in labor status is diminishing day by day. In 2002, when the EC PARTY government came to power, the number of companies employed by subcontractors was 2,001, and at the end of 2011 it reached 8,644. In 2011, nearly half of 1,868 people were employed in the area of mail distribution, cleaning, cargo, motorized personnel, private security guards. This trend shows that subcontractorisation has been widespread in public institutions during the AK PARTY administration. As stated in article 27 of the bill's Article (1) of the Article 27 of the law, the EPTT personnel are employed by administrative service contract without subject to the provisions of Law 657 and other laws on contracted personnel. All employees are asked to be made unsecured. In addition, all rights of personnel taken with the KPSS will be regulated by the regulations adopted by the Council of Ministers' decision. On the other hand, under contracted personnel who are under unsecured employment under the administrative service agreement, however, will be punished as a public official for all kinds of crimes according to Article 29 of the bill's sentence (1). Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the legislation we're negotiating with, including the problems of about 30,000 staff employees and 15,000 subcontractors, need to be restructured of the institution's management structure and functioning. A strategic position in the service he is conducting is required to be studied by a commission where employees are organised and run an active process of restructuring. In this case, the bill will have no legitimacy with the workers and the community. With that feeling, again, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0082par0068	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Congressmans, any further requests on behalf of the groups? No. On behalf of his people, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat is not afraid. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0083par0073	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my personal views on the Postal Service Law Bill. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, when we look at the general basis of the law, it is also stated that it was made for national security needs. The AKP, who left national security at the mercy of the terrorist organization, on his conscience, must have had a fearful dream at night, that he had thought of national security, and he stuck it to the cause of the law. You all know what the mail company does; it ensures that letters, congratulations, telegrams are delivered to its subjects. Unfortunately, the AKP has set the limits of freedom of communication, not our Constitution. During election times, CDs and tapes are broadcast online. Phone calls about people's private lives, their letters, they're all over the press. Let this go. It is challenged by the Prime Minister himself, laughing, "These are not private lives." He's trying. But because a bug was found in his room, he immediately gathers the House and sets up a research commission. You see, in our country, we only have freedom of communication for AKP executives. Dear lawmakers, the issue of the open market and competition of the postal business has already been carried out a few months ago. PTT delivered letters from Imran to Kandil and other terror nests? No. The PTT has apparently handed over its authority to the Peace and Democracy Party. With the government's special approval, BDP is already pulling this off. He's gone, PTT. He's here, BDP. Who gave them that privilege? He came to power with our nation's pure votes, then sat down with the PKK to negotiate with the AKP. There's a government undermining all institutions, and I'm redesigning the post office. There's a bill brought to Parliament. What institution did you cure, and now you have PTT left? Which of your reforms did not include staffing, favoring, and sharing? Mr. Prime Minister, wouldn't it be better if he was busy with a state government whose nails were out of place instead of mouthfuls of insults to Turkish nationalists? No, he only has one goal: to be president of this country. The country's sunk, it's out, it's on its side, it's down, it doesn't care, it's doing everything it can to become president, it's opening doors to all alliances without saying no. After that, the flood! No one even asked the Prime Minister if three terms were enough for you. The good lawmakers have handed over their mail delivery to the BDP, but what about communications security? We see that the AKP sealed PKK letters are being delivered to terrorist negotiations with great care. What's being written, only the Prime Minister and Ocalan know between the lines and what kind of a horizon this nation is waiting for, because the Prime Minister has nothing to say to the nation but his chorus. However, BDP postal workers can occasionally violate this secrecy and cause the letters to leak to the public. These letters are suddenly served to the press. Criminals are tea makers, cleaners, like everywhere else. It's important to the AKP, of course, that the burnt terrorist letters be delivered safely without leaking them, because both the Prime Minister and AKP policies are being waxed, their cover is coming out. He's singing songs of grief. He's burned the end of the letter again. While organizing the state's mail business, the AKP also thinks it's possible that the letter exchange between Imralı and Kandil would be safer, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0084par0080	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0085par0081	Mr. President, I'd like to make a promise that during his speech, Mr. Secretary, he was taunting our party by calling it "The Postmaster."
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0084par0082	Okay. In two minutes, please.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0085par0083	And you're very determined not to make promises today, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0084par0084	I mean, we gave it to him.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0085par0085	I mean, since there's bullying here, we want a say in this.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0084par0086	We've got two minutes, he's got it, and we've got it.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0085par0089	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are making accusations that would be unbecoming to a member of parliament who was just speaking here, which would not suit a political party spokesman. There's a process going on here. There are political parties and politicians working on this process. You can criticize in terms of the idea of the process, you can come to the points you disagree with our people on this bench, you can offer them your alternative solution proposals. We, the Party of Peace and Democracy, have fulfilled what we have said on this stand so far. For us, the situation is clear that BDP is a party to solving the Kurdish problem, and it is clear to our people. We are prepared to contribute to the solution of the Kurdish problem -- the Peace and Democracy Party -- in whatever area it is necessary to contribute. It is not in any way that our actions are reduced by your calling, calling, insulting, or insulting, that the people make its decision. And I'll tell you, it's an honor to be a postman and to be a bearer of peace. After all, the process has stopped flowing blood, and for three months in this country, young people have not fallen to the ground in this geography. But if you're curious about the role of BDP, let's say again: BDP is a political party that has worked the most in the parliament to solve the Kurdish problem, who is trying to create the highest agenda, who is paying the most for it, and who is naturally a part of it. If you're coming here, there's a different way, a different way, a different solution project, if you discuss it, if you tell the public about it, you'll be doing something better. In the coming period, we do everything in our power to ensure that this retreat process is carried out in peace, not losing the life of a single teenager, not bleeding the blood of a single teenager is more important to us than anything else. On the legal and constitutional level, we will be actively involved in all the necessary work. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0086par0092	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0087par0093	Mr. President used the character's statement about postal service because of the bullying, so the responder said, "We'll do postal work." So, I wanted to express that there was no bullying, no reminding of a mission being carried out.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0086par0094	He's on hold.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0088par0095	Mr. President, what I'm saying is very clear, I've defined the mission of the Peace and Democracy Party. If there's a problem with understanding that, there's nothing to tell.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0086par0096	That's another matter.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0089par0097	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0086par0098	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0089par0099	Mr. President, he's a postal worker. He insulted us." he said. It's not an insult to be a postman, but it's also a postal worker. I wanted to underline that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0086par0101	He's got it all under control. Thank you. Dear friends, on behalf of their people, Mr. Turgay Develi, Adana MP. Mr. Develi, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0090par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish that the blessed three months that will begin on Saturday be blessed and blessed to the Islamic world, and that the prayers will be answered. This bill was adopted in 1873. Today's version of the Dream of Abdulhamit and the subsequent capitalizations are valuable friends. You know that's what I think means by the General Debts Administration. That time, ll. The process, which began during the Abdulhamit period, leading to borrowing and capitalizations, now corresponds to a new period as Prime Minister of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, which means he's gone. Abdulhamit, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has arrived. This process, in Turkey's 90-year period of republic -- as Mr. Minister earlier said about the State Railways -- the mark of our independence means nothing more than that all institutions, State Railways, TEDASH (SECA), TECHN (ECAN) and ports, all of our independence were emptied into the service of global finance. The other day, at the group meeting, we raised the number of loans that amounted to 988,000. I'm asking everyone in the House if a person who borrows money from a neighbor is in good economics or bad?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0091par0114	There's no debt left in the IMF.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0090par0115	So this country has become a country with a growing debt since 2002. Yes, and yesterday, our group vice president told me that your party is the last one to receive money from the IMF in 2005, borrow 10 billion loans, and pay off the last slice of this on May 17th. You're paying the debt you've taken, but in this country, $334 billion has been borrowed from that day on the outside, $334 billion. There's over 150 billion in internal debt. Now, he published numbers today, in 2011, the amount of debt our banks borrowed from the outside by the union loan is 130 billion dollars, and you say we're out of debt to the IMF. These institutions, the symbol of the republic, are being sold one by one to attract global capital. You also boast that this was the most privatized in our time. History will judge you, the AK PARTY will one day ask you to account for them as soon as our citizens end up not giving you the will to represent them. That's the only way a country, a republic can be sunk.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0092par0117	What's the national rate of debt?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0090par0118	In today's Turkey, where harsher provisions have been carried out than capitalizations, where harsher conditions have been carried out, the people ask the question, friends.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0093par0119	The public asked, the people are asking for an account!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0094par0120	He asked seven times!
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0090par0121	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0095par0123	What's the national rate of debt?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0096par0124	Thank you, Mr. Develi. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, we're going to do a QA with our friends who have entered the system. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0097par0128	Mr. Secretary, the province of Alexandria is ranked second in the tax, first in the payment, and the denominator of the state as public investment is ranked 79 percent in 81 counties. You've taken over the construction of subways where the mayors of Ankara and Istanbul failed to do so. Our mayor's incompetence has turned into the most indebted municipality in Europe and we have a major traffic problem. Do you plan to invest as the Ministry of Transport in Alexei, or do you have current investments, and we don't know? What are you going to do? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0098par0132	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0099par0134	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, public workers, distributors, box office clerks, tellers who work in the mail service are said to have been paid in the same amount, due to those who are a year old or more, in the process of repaying their cut on behalf of the Bail Ark, where they are required when they begin to work. Do you have any work on resolving this problem, resolving the victim? Will you compensate for the victims of the workforce? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0098par0136	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0100par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've asked several times, the Ankara-Aksaray-Tarsus-Mersin-Adana-Gaziantep line is a line with the most passenger capacity. What's the reason there's no high-speed train transportation? Since Prime Minister Gaziantep has set an example for the eastern provinces, do you plan to move the high-speed train there? Since you've just taken over the Istanbul subways, as Mr. Akar said, are you thinking about building a subway at Gaziantep, as you've taken over the Ankara subway? Because Gaziantep is facing an important transportation and traffic problem. I'd appreciate it if you'd fill us in on this. Second question: Last time I asked again, I came from Gaziantep last weekend, from the intersection of Ereğli to the Coniah intersection, what is the reason why the divided road to the intersection of Kulu is always torn apart? Have you looked into it, have you assigned an inspector? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0101par0142	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0102par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my first question is to carry out a justice. Now, a number of notices go to the muhtars, the citizen is left to the chief when he is not at home, but PTT collects the notice, while the headman delivers the notice to the citizens. So, wouldn't it be fair to leave a small amount to the chiefs? My second question is: You have a statement here in 28/04 -- in the nail -- your sentence to us: "What did you negotiate with this terrorist organization?" We negotiated 4T; one country, one nation, one state, one flag, our Al-star flag is enough for all of us. 1) Did you really bring these to the negotiating table? 2) If these are the ones you saved, what are they? It's a very serious matter, and I'd like you to answer it, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0103par0151	Thank you, Mr. Longneck. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0104par0153	Thank you, Mayor. Minister, PTT offices, PTT branches were often robbed. When we think of it as a bank, I think some of the branches are the most robbed banks in Turkey. How many robberies were there after PTT started banking? How much money was stolen in these robberies? What kind of precautions did you take about that? Are the robberies going up or are they going down? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0105par0156	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0106par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that PTT officers claim to be tax-expensive by up to 8 floors, according to other officers who receive the same salary? If it's true, does your Ministry have any work on fixing it? Second, given the population values per PTT employee, there are serious distortions in the distribution of PTT employees in our country. Did your Ministry do a study on this? If so, how do you view the removal of these distortions? What will happen to PTT employees when the privatisation process comes after this law? What measures have you taken or taken? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0107par0162	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0108par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, of course, all the institutions of the state work in favor of Recep Erdogan. The state railways have a travers, they have factories, they have stalled, but the in-law of Recep Tayyip Erdogan is being built and bought from there. The String Group set up an Active Bank, where the Active Bank gets paid for wire transfers made by PTT. What is the source of the benefits here? One day I went to the airport. Now in Solfasol, the airport used to be a straight road, and now they've built a tunnel, and they've made a road that's so curved that what's changed the route of their roads? How much did it cost to build a curved road to benefit a few profiteers? What airport?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0109par0169	Protocol path, new protocol path.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0108par0170	The highways did that. You made a tunnel. How much does that tunnel cost, that road cost? But it was more, more, more, more, like, a straight road. Now it's curved. There could be dangers there at any moment. How much does that road cost? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0110par0171	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0111par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a very busy road between Şanliurfa-Halfeti-Bozova-Tylak, but unfortunately, even moles haven't lived there for years. Cars can't get through, people are miserable. The vehicles are badly damaged. In the past few weeks, locals and carriers have blocked, blocked, and protested. Is your government taking any precautions to make this road that has been cancelled twice? My second question is, especially the chiefs, they're having a lot of trouble with this notice, they're going through investigations. Do you have any suggestions for a solution to comfort the mayors? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0112par0177	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm sorry, I'm having a little trouble with my voice. Mr. Akar is coming first in line to see him. What services are being provided here? He asked a question. In fact, you are well - acquainted with the services of the patriarch. The High Speed Train Project is passing through the Bigeli. Two current lines are being removed on three and the line is being completely restored. As you know, we've rebuilt the E-5 path to 2x2, completely. We've expanded here to address the congestion that exists in TEM. In addition, the Istanbul-Izmit-Izmir highway is also a road that will serve in the area of the busiest traffic between Alexandria-Istanbul, which will continue in the third and later years. The road north of Izmit will have reduced the traffic jam in Izmit and Kopeli to a minimum. Mr. Oz, you asked me a question about refunds on postal workers. The amount cut from the bail chest's personnel has been paid along with the interest collected by that day. 30 per cent of this amount is paid to the treasury and the rest to PTT employees entirely. Mr. Serindağ, I have answered this question before, and among our 2023 targets are Ankara-Tarsus-Mersin-Gaziantep-Adana routes in the High Speed Train Programme. In this framework, projects and studies continue. The road between the Eregli-Serve was unfortunately made in the past years, but we had to do it again because of the difficulties in the material. In this regard, the necessary work for the contractor is being done by the firm's guarantee to replace it. Mr. Tallermak, the notice is left to the chiefs, it's done by the chiefs, correct. And PTT gets paid, which is true. In this regard, of course, the chiefs need an arrangement for a separate fee from this service. Our government on the mayors is working on something. That can be taken into account.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0113par0186	Mr. Secretary, let's make an arrangement here, make a motion, deal with it, what's going to happen. Now, in fact, PTT is leaving the mayor in the ball, taking over the job of a major notification. The chief's main demand there is not money, but legal problems related to this notification have been difficult. They want to be corrected, or executed in a criminal way, by the authorities, as well. This will be discussed in the law concerning the chiefs. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Tallermak, it's clear what I'm saying. If you look at the front side of that conversation, it'll be very clear there. We've never made a bargain with anyone. If it's supposed to be a negotiation, it's a 4T deal. That's what I'm saying today. One state, one nation, one flag and one country. These are the most important principles we can all not give up. They're non-negotiable, and they've never happened. That's what I'm saying. It's a simple pun. I mean, there's an art in literature called the 'cinas', and I think it's pretty clear what I'm saying. Mr. Eyidoğan, the change in statistics related to robberies in PTT branches is in this way: there is an increasing trend, especially in 2005 and 2007, but with measures taken -- for example, 10 in 2013, 16 in 2012 -- that has been reduced. This is the amount of money in the robberies: 135 thousand liras in 2012, $966,000 in 2006 at the highest, but since they were insured, there was no loss of the institution. Mr. Light, will they be missing PTT employees? You asked me a question. With this legal arrangement, there is no change in PTT employees' financial loss or their staff, working conditions or promotions. The personnel rights will be protected in the same way, and I want it to be known. Another question by Mr. Light is... since the contractual employee's fee is determined by the YPK in accordance with the 399 NGO in this new arrangement, taxes are also cut grossly at the rate specified. Mr. Young... to be honest, the question of Mr. Young is a little longer, so I'll answer it in writing. You've made some allegations, and I'd like to answer them in writing. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0114par0195	Thank you, Minister. We're out of time, so I assume you'll report the others in writing. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 21st draft of the Common 452 Orders of Postal Services Act. We propose and propose that the articles 2 and 3 be removed from the article text, and the 1st joke be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Mehmet Günal Alim Light Zuhal Topcu Necati Özensoy Ali Halaman (1) With this Law, the Post and Telegraph Agency was established with an impartial public corporate personality. Its short name is PTT. Its centre is in Ankara. General provisions for PTT on matters other than the specific provisions set out in this Law shall be carried out under the Constitutional Court of Law on Public Economic Opposition No. 233. The Post and Telegraph Agency conducts its relations with the government through the Minister of Transport Maritime and Communications. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that the 21st Amendment of the Postal Services Act be changed in the following way. MADDE 21- (1) The "Posta services" specified in Article 5 of this Law, according to the principles of universal postal service, according to a quality, continuous, affordable fee for all users, according to the principles of efficiency, efficiency and profitability in competitive market conditions, and the "Posta monopoly" services specified in Article 6 shall be established by the General Directorate of the Ministry of Ministers, which has the principle of Economic and Efficiency in accordance with the principles of economic and social service in accordance with the principles of economic, economic and efficiency and efficiency. (2) PTT is subject to special legal provisions, except for the issues which are kept under the Code of Law on the Law of Public Economics Act No. 233, dated 8/6/1984. The PTT can establish an anonymous partnership to conduct its activities. These companies can handle their activities outside of their monopoly. (3) The entire capital of PTT belongs to the Treasury. The Ministry uses votes, management, representation, control and rights of the Treasury Undersecretary on the condition that all financial rights due to the right to property and right to profit remain and remain in the Treasury Undersecretary of public ownership. Any financial and legal responsibility for the use of these rights and powers belongs to the Ministry. (4) PTT is launched by the Ministry as it prepares its main status. 5) The provisions of the Special Law on how to enforce Transport and Communications Services No. 697, dated 16/7/1965, and on how to operate in the State of Emergency and War, and on the conditions of martial law and mobilisation and postal services are sealed." Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Doğan Günah Sakine Öz Haluk Ahmet Silver Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 Orders Numbered Bill 21. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Pervin Buldan Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: With this item, PTT will be converted into an anonymous company. So in the short term, even though PTT offers effective public service for subcontractorisation and further, it will serve the purpose of privatisation. This will lead to commercialisation of PTT services, a basic public service, and the public's expensive access to services. PTT Inc. the model that is intended to be applied is "The State Capital Private Company." PTT's Inc.After converting to ', PTT will be given power to the company's administration in matters such as hiring, layoffs, transfers, promotions, setting wages, determining working conditions and hours. However, the working conditions and wages of employees employed in a public institution are regulated by law. PTT can serve even to the remotest corner of villages, while the private sector finds it not profitable. Such services will cost citizens more if PTT is reshaped according to market logic. Looking at the postal administrations of 192 countries, a member of the World Postal Union (UPU), which serves the world, most appear to be state-owned and public company status. At the end of 2003, PTT raised its profit of $22,891,000 to $174m,39,000 in eight years at the end of 2011. In 2008, when the effects of the world's economic crisis began to take place in our country, economic downsizing has also shown its success in making its profit at $230m in 2009. The mail industry is significantly affected by technological developments. The general opinion is that postal work will now fall in a world where the Internet is widespread. On the contrary, the developing technology diversifies and promotes postal services. An assessment of the sector is expected to bring postal operations to an important point as part of logistical services that have been introduced by the Internet. In such a case, PTT's profitability is expected to increase in the coming years. In 2004-2011, the total investments were $617.5m, and the investment funding for 2012 is $140m. The privatisation of such a lucrative and public service should not be opened. Therefore, the item must be printed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that the 21st Amendment of the Postal Services Act be changed in the following way. MADDE 21 - (1) Under the principles of the universal postal service referred to in Article 5 of this Law, according to the principles of quality, continuous, affordable pay for all users, according to the principles of effective, efficiency and profitability in competitive market conditions, the General Directorate of the Ministry of the Post and Telegraphs, which states "Posta monopoly" on Article 6 in accordance with the principles of universal postal service, in accordance with economic and social requirements, in accordance with the principles of economic and efficiency. (2) PTT is subject to special legal provisions, except for the issues which are kept under the Code of Law on the Law of Public Economics Act No. 233, dated 8/6/1984. The PTT can establish an anonymous partnership to conduct its activities. These companies can handle their activities outside of their monopoly. (3) The entire capital of PTT belongs to the Treasury. The Ministry uses votes, management, representation, control and rights of the Treasury Undersecretary on the condition that all financial rights due to the right to property and right to profit remain and remain in the Treasury Undersecretary of public ownership. Any financial and legal responsibility for the use of these rights and powers belongs to the Ministry. (4) PTT is launched by the Ministry as it prepares its main status. In the case of martial law and mobilisation, the specific laws on the implementation of postal services are kept in accordance with the Law of the State of Emergency and War of Transport and Communications Services No. 697, dated 16/7/1965. " Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0115par0255	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0114par0256	Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0116par0258	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, members of lawmakers, I'm looking at the government's actions in this House with a great surprise, in fact a little bit of shame on my country's behalf. The government's capacity to understand is questionable. We call it democracy, we are the majority, we are the democracy. Not unless democracy, the opinions and interests of the minority are accounted for. We say, "You are making initiatives and comments to the nation's state." What do we say, what do you understand? You say it's opening, it's opening, but you don't talk about what it is, it's hiding from the people. You go to the PKK, you go to the public. We'll hide the future of the Turkish state from the Turkish people. You say, "It's a fact that you're hiding it." You're seeing other people about the future of the country. The public and opposition are learning your destination from the PKK and foreigners. The Turkish nation has become a nation that cannot decide its future because of you. See, this is what you call a free market economy. You can only transfer the state's rights of monopoly and privilege to the private sector. What kind of understanding is that? The state mechanism has been corrupted in your time and transformed into a unique, unique freak. I'm sure the executives of the developed countries who offered you the free market are watching you as an example. The free market does not mean sell state property and pay the debt. There's a logic to that. The free market logic says: "Make equal and suitable conditions for competition so that efficiency can increase, economic dynamics. " Look, what you're doing in this bill is that PTT becomes an anonymous company, which performs the remaining telegraph and postal services after PTT's PTT is separated as Turkish TELEKOM. In doing so, the existing monopoly area of the PTT (PTT) is being expanded. On the one hand, you're making PTT (PTT) a private company, and on the other hand, you're expanding its monopoly field. Of course, we understand that your ultimate goal is to sell the PTT, but in short, that's not the way it's done, it's not privatisation and it's not monopoly. It's against the Constitution, folks. According to the Constitution and Code of Law 233, public service must be carried out by the hands of public institutions and public services, according to the Constitution. In our law, it is imperative that the monopoly, which can be established by law, be created in the name of people who are subject to state or public law. In private law, it is clear by law that the monopoly cannot be created in favor of real or legal persons. Therefore, Article 167 of the Constitution has been given the authority and the mandate to prevent monopoly and cartelization, which will be born in the state, in the markets or in accordance with the agreement. The monopoly can be created for the same purpose in matters of public interest and can be conducted in two ways: the main way is to run the monopoly by public enterprises. The second way is in the contract of the right to the monopoly, which is created in the name of public legal persons, to the legal and legal persons of real or private law. However, it is imperative that the postal monopoly shall be formed in the form of KİT, which is subject to public law of the public company, in accordance with the Constitution and Code of Law 233. Even if the capital of the Postal Telegraph Anonymous Company, which is intended to be established on Article 21 is public, it is openly against the principle of equality in the 10th article of the Constitution and against Article 47 and 167, and should be returned from the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0117par0268	Thank you, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0118par0269	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit05spe0117par0270	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0117par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Silver and his friends on the 21st article of the bill was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We will continue the talks of Bill 452. Government? Here. Commission? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 21st draft of the Common 452 Orders of Postal Services Act. We propose and propose that the articles 2 and 3 be removed from the article text, and the 1st joke be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends (1) With this Law, the Post and Telegraph Agency was established with an impartial public corporate personality. Its short name is PTT. Its centre is in Ankara. General provisions for PTT on matters other than the specific provisions set out in this Law shall be carried out under the Constitutional Court of Law on Public Economic Opposition No. 233. The Post and Telegraph Agency conducts its relations with the government through the Minister of Transport Maritime and Communications. Does the commission agree with the reading motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0119par0018	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0120par0019	Erkan Akçay.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0117par0020	Mr. Erkan Akçay, Congressman of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0121par0022	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on Article 22 of the Law Bill No. 452. I salute your honorable committee. Article 22 of the bill organises the activities and qualities of the PTT (PTT). In the (6) joke added by our motion for this clause, the issue of free public transportation is organised by mail distributors given by official administrations, municipalities and partnerships. This arrangement aims to prevent the victims of the postal services, one of our country's most important public services, because postal workers spend a great deal of the day in these vehicles. Honourable lawmakers serve the Turkish nation with nearly 170 types of services, along with banking and cargo services, which have served successfully and proudly for a hundred and seventy years. PTT employees work hard to perform these services. In countries with a population close to our country, PTT services are performed with about six times the staff we have. Despite this, PTT personnel have made their institutions one of the most efficient institutions in our country. However, AKP's obsession with privatisation, which turned into a black love, collapsed like a nightmare on the PTT. AKP's privatisation practices are an instrument of economic reflection of its understanding. The AKP is destroying the institutions that the Turkish nation has raised up and made our country a hundred-flower. Between 2003-2012, privatisation revenues amounted to $38 billion. This love of privatisation, which is built in the expression "I sell like a father," is seeking a new position. The bill we discussed today opens the way for the privatisation of PTT (PTT), which has performed one of Turkey's most important public services. The bill is based on statements such as improvement, liberalisation of the service we have heard in the earlier privatisation practices of the AKP. Mr. Minister of Transport, in October 2011, expressed this understanding in the following way: "The work we are going to do is not to privatise PTT (PTT) but to gradually remove PTT (PTT)'s monopoly rights, and it is the first step in privatising PTT (TTTT) as an anonymous company, even if it tries to eliminate these claims. Postal services in our country should be considered a public service. Thus, it is true that the activities that constitute the service area of the PTT (PTT) should also be considered a monopoly in this framework. Mr. Secretary, in his statement that I have just expressed, he is expressing his dissension with the monopoly of the PTT (PTT), but on the other hand, we see that this monopoly situation continues, even though it has been transformed into a company. The monopoly location of PTT is limited to stamp printing and notification. Moreover, the notification service is made to subcontractors due to lack of personnel. The services of PTT (PTT) in other areas such as banking, wire transfers, cargo and couriers are already available in parallel with the private sector. As it turns out, PTT has no monopoly status, no position. Dear lawmakers were given to some companies who had no experience in the issue of registered mail in February 2013 -- a registered and responsive letter, APS and delivery of cargo. Our citizens have given their registered mail and cargo to PTT, calling it a state institution, but these companies, who have no experience in delivering mail, have not been able to deliver thousands of shipments to their buyers. These distribution companies have been withdrawn from the distribution business or confiscated by returning the shipments to PTT (PTT), but in the process, citizens have been victimised and the image of PTT (PTT) has been damaged. After February 2013, the profits of the PTT were reduced by 35 per cent. With these thoughts, I expect you to support our motion, all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0122par0033	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 21 is accepted. There are four motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the expression "payment service" be added after the declaration of "money mail service" in Article 22 of Postal Services Charter 452. Mahir Ünal Recep Special Akif Çazatay Sword Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen Ramazan Can Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (/751) We propose and propose that Article 22 of the original Postal Service Law Bill be changed to "main status" in Article (1) and (3). Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş Turgay Develi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill is 22. At the end of the article 1, we propose that the following declaration of "actions related to the service of notification and telegraph" be changed to "main status," and that the third joke be removed from the article text and added to the following joke. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Gunny Mehmet Günal Necati Özensoy Erkan Akçay In accordance with Law 657 and Rule 399 (II), employees and those employed at PTT under executive service contract are exempted from giving tax and pictures which are increased by the authorities, municipalities and partnerships, who accept and distribute mail at the city's location. PTT's own vehicles are also exempt from images taken by private administration and municipalities. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 is 22 of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Sırrı Süryya Leader Pervin Buldan Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0123par0065	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0122par0066	I'm reading the reason: This can be used after becoming a company to provide support for banks without being subject to the law of banking, while the established PTT anonymous company KİK will allow those who own that company to rule and direct the entire banking sector. Therefore, the item must be printed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill is 22. At the end of the article 1, we propose that the following declaration of "actions related to the service of notification and telegraph" be changed to "main status," and that the third joke be removed from the article text and added to the following joke. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends In accordance with Law 657 and Rule 399 (II), employees and those employed at PTT under executive service contract are exempted from giving tax and pictures which are increased by the authorities, municipalities and partnerships, who accept and distribute mail at the city's location. PTT's own vehicles are also exempt from images taken by private administration and municipalities. Commission, do you agree with the reading motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0124par0079	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0122par0080	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0125par0081	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0122par0082	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to ensure that the provision of mail distributors, official administrations, municipalities and partnerships free use of public transportation, which is included in Postal Law No. 5584, which is lifted from the article (1) of Article 31 of the bill, without saying, "win, rain, mud, hot," and on official holidays, is to prevent the victims of the mail services of our country's most important public service. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Section 22 of Postal Services Act 1/751 be changed to "main status" in Articles (1) and (3). Turgay Develi (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0126par0093	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0122par0094	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0127par0096	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the PTT is a huge and very historic institution. One of the very basic institutions of the Republic of Turkey, but PTT, no matter how much it has tried to make progress over time, is an institution that is behind a number of modern developments, technology. He has dedicated personnel, but administrative errors have caused a number of basic services to be broken. I'll tell you two things that happened to me. First: A relative of mine sent me a document from Istanbul, which reached me in 17 days; PTT delivered it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the 17th day. Second, again, a bank sent me a normal monthly statement that reached me over two weeks ago. I passed this on to Mr. General Manager at the time, but nothing came of it. I don't know if there's been any improvement in these services from that day forward. I hope so, I hope so. Now, in this article, the PTT (PTT) field is expanding. The bill gives the mail monopoly to the PTT Ash, and makes authoritarian arrangements to expand its monopoly, so if the PTT Transport Ministry gives its mandate, it will monetise much more areas of service. I explained here yesterday the violation of the Constitution of giving this monopoly to a private law firm. However, there's another step here. After our motion, the ruling party's motion will be read, and PTT wants a mandate to provide payment services, not in the bill. He's going one step further, he's going to be able to make all the money transfers, support banks. In doing so, he will be exempt from the control provisions of the Banking Law; not enough, he says, "Let me be a payment provider." Why? A draft draft of a bill in the prime minister's office envisioned that PTT will be given such authority in that draft. Dear MPs, the legislature doesn't make law, the Turkish Grand National Assembly can't, because something's been put in a draft. This is a violation of the legislature, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I don't know how much information the authors of the ruling party motion have. My call to PTT is this: "Come, first do your basic services, and deliver these letters to your owners in time. Let's clear the way for the Kargo companies. Let's not let the citizens stop giving their letters to PTT. There's an understanding in PTT that let PTT stay back from basic services so that the shipping companies can work better. I reject that understanding. I'm also saying that we don't find the authority that the ruling party wants to give PTT. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0128par0104	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "payment service" be added after the declaration of "money mail service" in Article 22 of the current 452 Postal Services Bill. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0129par0113	We agree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0130par0114	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0128par0115	I'm reading the reason: Since PTT is currently able to continue its payment service and collection operations, it is conditioned by the Central Bank of Turkey to provide a separate payment service to the Prime Minister under the mandate of the 13th article, titled "payment services provider" of the Law Bill on Payment Services and Electronic Money Corporations. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 22nd article has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 23 of the same nature. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 23 of the Postal Services Act (1) (a) be removed from the text of matter. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill 23rd. We propose and propose the removal of the article from the item text "a" of the second joke. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Mehmet Günal Özcan Yeniçeri Necati Özensoy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0131par0137	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0128par0138	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0132par0139	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0128par0140	I'm reading the reason: In Articles 24, 25 and 26 of the "a" of the draft clause, the Governing Body is given the authority to appoint the Governing Body, the Governing Body and the General Director, while there is no information on how or who the General Assembly will be. On the other hand, the 23rd article must be removed from the text "a" column of matter, since it is considered to be an autonomous and neutral institution for public economic initiatives. Mr. Turgay Develi, Adana. Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0133par0147	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the AK PARTY, are carrying out the assignment. No matter what we say, they will not hear, they will not see, and they will not speak; they will enact this bill. Workers are in the squares today, workers of the HABER-SEN are connected to KESK, workers of the KAMU-SEN are of the people of the PTT, they can't be sold. They walk the streets, they cross the barricades, but you don't listen to the workers. You are also subcontractoring the Republic of Turkey as a subcontractor party that serves global capital by subcontracting workers into slavery, subcontractors. These days will come to an end. Now, I would like to point out that Mr. Environment and Urbanism Minister Erdogan Bayraktar is here: In Adana, they have posted the announcement of the stadium to be made by TOKI, which can only be seen in dictatorships. On one hand is a photo of Mr. Prime Minister, on the other is a photo of the Minister of Sports, and on the other is a photo of Mr. Minister of Urbanism. You think the AK PARTY is handing it out to Adana. But it's a very simple, profitable process. In the best part of Adana, Adana will build a stadium on January 5th in exchange for the most valuable part of the stadium in Adana, but according to protocol, the stadium he received was worth twice as much as the stadium, and he planned to build from Ankara to commit a very serious urban murder in a city centre in the city centre, where the city's life is densed with zero green areas, mass-intensity construction, despite the city's objection. We object to it, we rebel against it as Adanans, but the ministers of the EC PARTY, the MPs, and the Prime Minister don't hear it. I also call upon our fellow citizens from Adana, members of the EC PARTY: Do not be a party to this murder; warn the Minister, the Prime Minister. Do not let the green areas of Adana be transformed into a mass-intensity AVM business centre for the city stadium, the only place Adana could get oxygen. It's a shame, it's a sin! Adana's resources are scarce. During your time of power, Adana fell to number 51st in the 4th row of economic size. Adana is number 2 on the list of unpaid credit cards. Adana is number 1 in Turkey's unemployment. Don't do it, don't do it, don't hit Adana again. When this mall is built, all the merchants in Adana will be in danger of being destroyed. Adana will be deprived of oxygen. By hanging your photos, like dictators, at the city stadium, you won't be able to sell it to the Adanas by advertising like you're doing something good. There is a second event: the early wheat harvest began in the region of Çukurova in Adana, and the season moved ahead of its normality. For the cost of 6.75 cents per kilo, the Adana farmer now expects a fee of £7.5-8 pounds. Explain this at once. If it is not announced tomorrow, the Çukurova farmer will fall into the hands of 38,000 farmers registered to the CKS, hundreds of thousands of families. If you don't want the loan sharks to win, if you want the Adanas to win, the price of wheat base must be announced immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0134par0152	Thank you, Mr. Develi. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 23 is accepted. There are two motions on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders of Postal Services Act 24th Article 1 of the following joke. We offer and offer to add as a joke. S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Necati Özensoy Zuhal Topcu Mehmet Günal The General Assembly is headed by the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications or an official assigned; A) Representatives to be appointed by Ministry of Justice, Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Development, Undersecretary of Treasury, General Directorate of Turkey, B) General Manager, Vice General Manager, C) The first three public officials with the highest members are nine representatives set in proportion to the number of members set by the union's confederations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We request and demand that the 24th Amendment of the Postal Service Act be removed from the draft text. Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Ali Serindağ Doğan Şaş Do you agree with the Commission's final motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0135par0175	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0134par0176	Mr. Serindağ, Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0136par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received a pledge on a proposal concerning the 24th article of Bill 452. Members of parliament, the PTT is a historical institution that dates back a long time, a hundred and seventy-three years old, and has received very important services in the past. In particular, it is not possible for us to forget the service of PTT (PTT) in the Battle of Salvation. Therefore, arrangements for PTT will need to be made in accordance with this historical history and in accordance with the duties it has made in the past. What are you guys doing? You're converting PTT (PTT) into an anonymous company. As you turn it into an anonymous company, you bring some contradictions to the Constitution. What are you doing? You're giving PTT/Law the monopoly authority that PTT will use. But with this bill, it's being converted into an anonymous company, so it becomes a private legal person. You can't give a private legal legal person a monopoly. What are you doing to make it up to me? You're bringing in another agency to make up for it. What institution are you entering? You're bringing in Information Technologies and Communications. Why is that? The reason for this is to prepare the privatisation infrastructure of the PTT. So far we've said -- we're not against privatisation -- new technology should come in, employment should increase, efficiency should increase; you're not bringing any of this, we've seen this in the past. There was an establishment called ▪ORUS. Is there? It's windy. The former director of the forest is here, he knows that. Well, where is it? The wind blows in his place. What happened? It's privatized. It's over. Well, we're against that kind of privatisation. What are you guys doing? You're trying to hide things, like I just said. Where else do you do it? Just like in Akçakale. My dear friends, I will now bring to your attention that on Thursday (May 2nd) at the Akchakale Border Gate, there was a serious incident at the black border gate, perhaps many of you didn't know about it; many of you may not have heard about it; unfortunately the press didn't dwell on it; the government passed on in silence as if such an event had not occurred there, and it had been forgotten, and it had been forgotten. I'd like to brush up on your information briefly. You know what happened that day? The groups you supported, armed, all kinds of logistical support, that you called the Syrian dissidents, attacked our black border gate, killed one of our police, wounded three of our officers, wounded four of our soldiers, wounded our civilian citizens, burned our flag. None of you made a sound. Mr. Secretary, I blame this very much. This is an intervention in Turkey's sovereignty. No one mentioned it. Your government hasn't been on this long enough. I blame it, I blame it! Your policy is bankrupt. Your Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, was bombing Syria while the Israeli jets were booming about Syria in Kızılcahamam. How can you have that on your conscience? The Prime Minister calls on the Crusaders to intervene in Syria. Can you swallow that in yourself? Look, even Kerry and Lavrov have prepared a memorandum of understanding. What are they saying? It says that the excesses must be prevented from gaining power. Your policy went bankrupt back there, too. Even from America, you have to leave now. In fact, America is no longer worthy of your opinion.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0137par0187	What was the motion, Governor?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0136par0188	He's no longer worthy of dignity. Where do you want to take Turkey now? You throw Turkey into the ring of fire, you throw Turkey into the Middle East swamp. You're taking Turkey to a place it doesn't deserve.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0137par0189	We're taking Turkey to its rightful place.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0136par0190	You stop Turkey from being the greatest force in the Middle East until now, turning Turkey into a whipping boy. You have no right. What happened? There's a group of you feeding them, interfering with our sovereignty and martyring our police, and you're silent. I blame you! I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0137par0193	You have no right to reproach anyone. We blame you, too.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0138par0194	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders of Postal Services Act 24th Article 1 of the following joke. We offer and offer to add as a joke. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends The General Assembly is headed by the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications or an official assigned; A) Representatives to be appointed by Ministry of Justice, Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Development, Undersecretary of Treasury, General Directorate of Turkey, B) General Manager, Vice General Manager, C) The first three public officials with the highest members are nine representatives set in proportion to the number of members set by the union's confederations. Do you agree with the proposed motion, Commission? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0139par0207	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0138par0208	Mr. Vural, should we have the motive read?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0140par0209	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0138par0210	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was not included only in the PTT General Assembly under the name of the requested draft text, but in the provision of a provision on how the general council should be addressed, on which procedure and basis it would serve. It is an important flaw that the draft text does not include the issues specified. The proposal aims to eliminate a legal gap that can be solved by resolving this gap. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 24th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is 452 of the Common Postal Services Act 25th. We propose and propose that paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 of the article 1 and paragraph 2 be replaced in the following way, and that the sixth joke be removed from the text of the article. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu The Governing Body consists of seven members, including the General Manager. Three members are appointed by the General Assembly of the three candidates offered by the three most members of the public officials, three of whom are the most members, among the candidates proposed by the minister, who is a member of the Treasury Undersecretary. The Governing Body uses and performs the following powers provided by the General Assembly as well as the powers vested in the main status of KHK 233 and PTT. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that the 25th Amendment of the Postal Services Act be changed in the following way. MADDE 25- (1) consists of a chairman and five members of the Governing Body. The CEO is the chairman of the board and is appointed by a joint decision on the Minister's proposal. Two of the board members are appointed jointly as part of the Minister's proposal by the Minister, one by the Undersecretary of Treasury, and two by the minister's deputy director general. (2) According to the Law of State Officers No. 657 dated 14/71965, those who will be appointed to the Governing Body have general conditions for appointment to be a state official, a higher education, and an administrative and professional expertise related to PTT's field of operation is essential. However, an appointed member of the Minister's proposal does not require administrative and professional expertise. The mandate of board members is three years. Those whose term of duty expires can be reassigned. (3) The Governing Body represents PTT as a decision-making body, as well as by management, conduct and administrative and judicial authorities, and is responsible for PTT's representation and administration. The Governing Body uses and performs the following powers, as well as the powers vested in KHK and Main Status 233. A) Set the terms of acceptance and payment of the posts accepted at workplaces. B) Set the costs and payment bases of all services offered. C) Decide to open, close, and participate in international activities related to the area of activity at home and abroad where it is needed. ) To determine commissions or other payments in exchange for stamp sales and agency services. D) Decide to print and sell mail stamps with postcards on the first and special day. e) Decide to establish anonymous partnerships regarding activities and service areas, sign contracts with real or legal persons, and buy services for separate mail operations. f) Set the staff fee and performance criteria and indicators for PTT's more efficient and efficient work. G) To draft PTT's strategic plan, performance schedule, budget and operational report, and to submit its budget to the Ministry of Development and Treasury Undersecretary. đ) To identify the organisation and the working procedures necessary to ensure that activities can be conducted effectively, efficiently and economically, and to approve regulations and regulations prepared by the General Manager. (4) The Governing Body can hand over some of its powers to the General Manager, provided it clearly determines its limits. However, the age of authority does not eliminate the responsibility of the Governing Body. (5) It is up to the Minister's permission to prosecute members of the PTT General Manager and Governing Body for their duties, and the provisions of the Law on the Trial of Officers 2/12/1999 and Other Public Servants are carried out. " Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Namuk Havutça Sakine Öz Doğan Dawn Do you agree with the last reading motion, Commission? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0141par0248	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0138par0249	Namik Havuk, Balıkesir, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0142par0251	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on our motion to make a amendment to the 25th Amendment of the Law Bill 452 rows under discussion. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, yesterday at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the victims of Bandırma Sugar Chicken were workers. From here, a year before this bench, we stated that Balıkesir had problems in the white meat industry, and if not, bankruptcy would be inevitable. Unfortunately, our voices weren't heard from here, but in the area, the bankruptcy started to come in one after another. First, Sugar Chicken went bankrupt, and our 1,200 workers got their bread, their vaccins. These people are currently unemployed, and unfortunately, they can't even receive unemployment allowance with the excuses of Labor and Employment. They can't bring bread to their college student, they can't provide allowance. I would like to address the Minister of Labor and Minister of Economy here: a province that creates a very important job in Turkey and produces 25 per cent of white meat as Balıkesir, and 20,000 people in the region eat from it. If you have any respect for the bread, for the vaccination of these workers, they need immediate support from the government by interfering there immediately. Dear lawmakers, perhaps the most important classic of the AKP era is the destruction of the working world. Look, when you came to power, the number of union workers in Turkey was 2 million 650 thousand, the number of union workers in Turkey today is only 650,000, and you have created a full labour slave paradise in the world of labour in Turkey, saying, "There is only 4/C, 4/B, contracted employment, subcontracted employment, subcontracted labor." Can such a Turkey talk about social state, social justice? Our city-owned subcontractor brother gets a minimum wage, but he's paid twice as much as the main staff. To what extent does such justice fit the justice of a political party called the Justice and Development Party? Where in the world is such justice? Dear lawmakers, if there's any conscience, if there's any respect for work, there really should be a blind eye to justice in the face of this painting of Turkey. Unfortunately, that's exactly what you're trying to bring with PTT law now. I mean, when you look at those factories, do you see dollars in your eyes? So that's how businessmen attack with their eyes rolling? Again, the workers are standing, the PTT workers are standing, on the streets, and they see it. Look, you're trying to make 27,317 contractors, 789 workers, 8,644 subcontractors, 37,819 employees, that's the purpose of this bill. As you have done, you have passed a number of laws that will reduce the number of employees under guaranteed jobs during the eleven years you have remained in power. The AKP, which changed the Business Law in the first place, took flexible working methods, business legislation, replaced workplaces under job guarantees as ▪30 and more employees, leaving 90 per cent of employees out of the scope of job security. The AKP's work as part of many major tasks in the public has increased by 4/B, 4/C, temporary staff, contractual personnel under special law, so the actual subcontractorization during the AKP period has increased by 5 times to 1.5 million. Turkey is now subcontractorised in the working world. These numbers aren't the numbers we made up; they're the numbers that the labor unions, the ILO contracts, came up with. Here, exactly what is meant to be done by this bill... again, the worst blow in this frame will be done by the working world and its employees. So, come, I say, by replacing this part of the bill with the motion we've made, by accepting it, let's at least avoid these errors, these flaws, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0143par0258	Thank you, Mr. Havut. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is 452 of the Common Postal Services Act 25th. We propose and propose that paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 of the article 1 and paragraph 2 be replaced in the following way, and that the sixth joke be removed from the text of the article. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends The Governing Body consists of seven members, including the General Manager. Three members are appointed by the General Assembly of the three candidates offered by the three most members of the public officials, three of whom are the most members, among the candidates proposed by the minister, who is a member of the Treasury Undersecretary. The Governing Body uses and performs the following powers provided by the General Assembly as well as the powers vested in the main status of KHK 233 and PTT. Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0144par0269	We can't agree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0145par0270	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0143par0271	I'm reading the reason: 7 of the ILO Convention No. 151. The clause states that "the measures that allow public officials and public officials to discuss the working conditions will be taken in accordance with national conditions if necessary for the development and incentive of any other method that allows representatives of public officials to participate in the setting of the conditions that are remembered." "The law cannot harm or harm the assurances envisioned by this contract." 11th annual contract entitled Protection of the Right to Organised Rights "Every member of the International Labour Organization, under which this contract is in effect, is obliged to take all necessary and appropriate measures in order to ensure that employees and employers freely exercise the right to organise." He carries his judgments. All these international rules, T. B. M. It has also been adopted by the laws passed by M. As international contracts in the form of internal law clearly indicate, it is legally necessary for trade unions to have representatives in various boards and institutions at the point of representation and resolution of employees. It is also a violation of Law 6102 that PTT General Manager and Governing Body members should be tried for their crimes. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 26: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill 26th. We propose and propose that the article be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu The directorate's organization structure and service units are organised at PTT's main status." The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of Transport Maritime and Communications. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that Article 26 of the Postal Services Act be changed in the following way. MADDE 26- (1) consists of the General Manager's Office; Vice General Managers and service units. (2) The National Directorate's organization structure and service units are organised at the main stadium. (3) The General Manager may hand over some of his powers to his subordinates, provided he clearly determines the boundaries of the Governing Body, except for the powers vested in him. However, the transfer of authority does not eliminate the responsibility of the General Manager. " İlhan Demirözı Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Doğan Şaş Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0146par0302	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0143par0303	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0147par0304	Mr. Erdal Aksinger.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0143par0305	Mr. Aksinger, please.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0148par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to bring up a very important issue regarding the Ministry of National Education. Meanwhile, you're doing privatisations for government revenue, and I want to tell you a document that you've taken the money and squandered it: Now, in 2004-05, Turkey had one IT class for every 8-room school. There are 32,000 of these IT classes today. You don't transfer teachers to these schools about IT classes under the FATH Project, and now you've decided to open a course. In addition, they will each receive a fee of $800 per month. Now, friends, 32,000 classes cost this state over $5 billion in eight years. If you've opened I.T. classes at 77 universities today, you've started teaching formalization classes about IT teaching and graduating IT teachers from around here, and if the number of teachers is more than 10,000 today, you have no idea about these children, you're doing a real massacre by paying tuition money for the existing teachers inside, and you're doing it again by paying 800 euro a month. Why? You know what happened to these classes? 32,000 classrooms, all of which have been used like Internet cafes, friends, and they have no function in the last three years. Today, you privatize PTT, you privatize, you try to put money in the government's vault. What about these classes, the IT classes? What's going to happen to these teachers? There's 10,000 data teachers waiting to be assigned, class teachers, waiting for a norm to open. You've appointed 313 teachers for the last 40,000 teachers assigned to the IT classes. You changed the business within the FATIH Project, and this time you took the teachers with information technology to an unpredictable process of what they're going to do next. Because when 4+4+4 was brought in, the IT courses were selected from the 4th and 5th grade, before that they were removed. What did you cross it with? You've made the IT classes a choice by choosing the life of Muhammad and the Qur'an with the lessons of the Qur'an. Yeah, can that be a moral situation? Well, then why did you open chapters on it in 77 universities since 2004-2005? If you did, why did you do 32,000 IT classes? Why did you spend $5 billion? So we put them aside, and we said to them, "Let's say this is a mistake. This is a mistake." And it's an act of piety. Three Ministers of National Education have changed in five years. I actually think you're getting a lot of positive reactions from a lot of environments about this new Minister of National Education, but once in a while, I found out that he doesn't know what he's doing. Why doesn't he know what he's doing? That's not really the job of the teachers you're putting up with these extra tuition fees. You've pointed out to a lot of people about this, and we're going to give you a job, the profession of the future. Right now, do you know what teachers of IT technology in schools do at the moment? They're just tech guys. And there's 10,000 teachers waiting outside, but there's still a school staff coming in, and it's like an avalanche.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0149par0310	The minister's here.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0148par0311	Mr. Secretary, while you're here... He's here. We've already discussed this with him. Mr. Secretary, I'm saying this new course you're doing on IT technology is a serious mistake. There are 10,000 children waiting outside for a staff of information technologies teachers. And yet you're inside trying to set up a man for it. Then why did you raise these kids? There are 77 kids still educated in college and graduated. Where are they going to perform their professions? $5 billion was spent, 32,000 classes were created. Do you know what these classes are like? I hope you'll take that as a positive opposition, and hopefully you'll come up with a solution. Or don't get these kids graduated. Because where are these kids going to be teaching? Who's gonna pay for this $5 billion from now on? These schools are all going to die because technology is rented, not for sale. I need everyone to write that down. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0150par0314	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill 26th. We propose and propose that the article be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends The directorate's organization structure and service units are organised at PTT's main status." The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of Transport Maritime and Communications. Do you agree with the commission motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0151par0325	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0152par0326	Motive.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0150par0327	I'm reading the reason: The PTT's organization structure and service units are intended to be organised according to the provisions of Law Rule 233. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... The 26th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 27: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that Article 27 of the 452 Ordered Postal Services Bill, which is discussed, be changed in (1), (2), (3) and (5) in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu The PTT personnel are employed according to regulations issued under law No. 657, KHK 399, and under this law, which organises contractal labour. "The duties of the members of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out according to the provisions of the law concerning hiring, title, number, posting, training, promotion, promotion, promotion, discipline, dismissal, renovation of contractuals, or renovation of contracts, according to the rules of the Council of Ministers. According to the career and merit measures of institutional staff, there can be no difference between staffed personnel and contract personnel, and no distinction can be made. The terms of the contractual staff's monthly salary, bonuses and other financial and social rights are determined by the Governing Body. However, the monthly average of all payments made under monthly fees, pensions, benefits, compensations, grants and other names, except for the guardianship fee, cannot cross the upper limit set for PTT by the Higher Planning Board. The firm's monthly salary, bonuses and other financial and social rights are agreed upon by the General Manager's proposal and by the decision of the Governing Body. The monthly fee set by the Governing Body cannot exceed the top of the PTT to be detected by the Higher Planning Board. The collective agreements on the specified verdict are kept. In terms of social security, the contracted personnel are subject to the provisions of Article 4 (c) of Article 4 of Article 5510. These personnel will receive final compensation in accordance with procedures and basics concerning those employed on rule 399 of Law II. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that the Postal Services Bill be changed in the following manner, along with the Article 27 article title. The services at MADDE 27- (1) PTT are conducted by employees, contractors, and workers. (2) In PTT and its joint partnerships, decisions that can directly affect the efficiency, efficiency, economic and profitability of capital are carried out on the basis of general administration, which has been authorized to implement and oversee decisions taken. The main and permanent tasks of PTT and its joint partnerships should be carried out on the basis of general administration; the general manager, vice director, chairman of the guidance and inspection board, head of the department, branch manager, inspector and assistant inspectors. In cases where there are no provisions in this law, the Law of State Act No. 22/1/1990 and the Order of Public Economic Oppositions Act 399 and the Elimination of Articles of Law 233 shall be carried out under the Act 657. In the future, contracted personnel who are excluded from joke number (2) are employees who have been employed under contract and under worker status under the legal basis specified in the Law Code 399, which is carried out outside the general management bases of PTT and its joint partnerships. These can also be employed at part-time, depending on the nature of the work, to cover specific times of the year or day. (4) The titles and numbers of positions belonging to personnel to be employed in a contracted status are determined by the Council of Ministers' decision. Contractual contracts with contract personnel are held annually under the type of contract established by the State Chief of Staff and by the calendar year. According to Act 657, the contracted personnel are required to have general conditions for appointment as state officials and to be appointed according to the order of success among those who have succeeded in the Public Staff Selection Exam. In terms of social security rights, the employees who will be employed in a contract status are subject to Article 4 of the Article (1) (c) of Article 5510 of the Law. In accordance with the provisions laid out in the Constitution and its special law, contracted personnel can establish and become members of unions and upper institutions. Five) Workers are subject to the provisions of Business Law No. 4857, dated 22/05/2003. " Haydar Akar İdris Yıldız Haluk Eyidoğan Sakine Öz Musa Pine Doğan Dawn Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 27 of the 452 Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Assat Canan Pervin Buldan Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0153par0367	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0150par0368	Read the reason, please. 1. Since the joke stipulates that all PTT personnel work through administrative service agreements, flexible and uncompromising work is being expanded, job security is being eliminated, staff pensions are tied to difficult conditions. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/751 Main (SS 452) We propose and propose that the Postal Services Bill be changed in the following manner, along with the Article 27 article title. The services at MADDE 27- (1) PTT are conducted by employees, contractors, and workers. (2) In PTT and its joint partnerships, decisions that can directly affect the efficiency, efficiency, economic and profitability of capital are carried out on the basis of general administration, which has been authorized to implement and oversee decisions taken. The main and permanent tasks of PTT and its joint partnerships should be carried out on the basis of general administration; the general manager, vice director, chairman of the guidance and inspection board, head of the department, branch manager, inspector and assistant inspectors. In cases where there are no provisions in this law, the Law of State Act No. 22/1/1990 and the Order of Public Economic Oppositions Act 399 and the Elimination of Articles of Law 233 shall be carried out under the Act 657. In the future, contracted personnel who are excluded from joke number (2) are employees who have been employed under contract and under worker status under the legal basis specified in the Law Code 399, which is carried out outside the general management bases of PTT and its joint partnerships. These can also be employed at part-time, depending on the nature of the work, to cover specific times of the year or day. (4) The titles and numbers of positions belonging to personnel to be employed in a contracted status are determined by the Council of Ministers' decision. Contractual contracts with contract personnel are held annually under the type of contract established by the State Chief of Staff and by the calendar year. According to Act 657, the contracted personnel are required to have general conditions for appointment as state officials and to be appointed according to the order of success among those who have succeeded in the Public Staff Selection Exam. In terms of social security rights, the employees who will be employed in a contract status are subject to Article 4 of the Article (1) (c) of Article 5510 of the Law. In accordance with the provisions laid out in the Constitution and its special law, contracted personnel can establish and become members of unions and upper institutions. (5) Workers are subject to the provisions of Business Law No. 4857, dated 22/05/2003." Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0154par0386	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0155par0387	Aykut Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0150par0388	Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0156par0391	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 27th amendment of the Law Bill, 452 rows. Mashallah, as the law continues, the ministers come and go, like a subway station. I don't understand what's more important for our Minister of Transport, who sits here for five minutes and sits here for three minutes, and what's our Minister of National Education doing here? Mr., IMITATION, CONTACT AND TURISM COMMINATION POLITIVE OYA ERONAT (Diyarbakir) ▪ He's sick... Is he sick? Well, get well soon, sir. Well, now, of course, according to the ministers, I'm saying... well, I'm sorry, but in the end, if he's sick, we could postpone the law, but, of course, because we're trying to catch up, I understand the human condition, but... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Sir, there's a quality to saying things, please. I didn't say anything. I'll keep going. Now, Mr. Ali Babacan was just sitting here. This stuff is about personnel. Dear friends, the capital of public economic enterprises belongs to the treasure and governs the treasure. The personnel of public economic initiatives have recently been sadly persecuted by the hands of treasure. That's what Mr. Ali Babacan should know. There's a public financing decree. This government of public finance also says: "You can hire as many as 10 per cent of the separated staff. For example, 150 people leave work, 15 people have to take it, and after a while subcontractorization begins, subcontractorization is launched with the treasury hand, and subcontractors continue in institutions instead of union workers. Is the Undersecretary of the Treasury, who gives such good advice to institutions, in good condition? He used to be in a very good mood, one of the most respected institutions in Turkey, which was destroyed by Mr. Ali Babacan, the Undersecretary of Treasury, dear friends. Let me put it this way: The meeting of the IMF and the World Bank's Council of Guvernors was to be held in Turkey. When we finished the debt to this IMF, we said that thousands of computers were taken, thousands of printers were taken, thousands of photocopiers were taken for the meeting of the IMF and the World Bank protectors in Turkey. It was taken by the Undersecretary of Treasury. ▪ What tender was received? Where is his budget? I have asked Ali Babacan for a year, and Ali Babacan has not been able to answer for a year. So, where was this done? The cadet was held at the Convention Center. How was it done? It was an invitational tender. Why is that? It was said, sir, that he is in a hurry. Since 2004, we know that the meeting of the IMF and the World Bank Council of Guvernors will take place in Turkey. Three weeks, tops, between open bids and an invitational tender. They've been negotiating about what they've known for five years just to invite the firm they've set up. And how did they do that? They're bidding, there's only one offer, 207 million liras. The only offer and 207 million liras are an exorbitant amount of money for a building like that. That wasn't enough, they gave me a 20% job increase while the bidding went on. It wasn't enough, they gave me a raise. It wasn't enough, they went out to light up the environment, they went out to the lighting auction of one building, they paid $29 million. Not enough, they spent $5 million on the furniture here. These tenders are all invitationals, all tenders are invitations. He didn't just stay here, the same thing was done for the Milky Way Convention Center. Now, you spend 300, 400 trillion dollars on Shishle, in the best part, and there's a building in a $1 billion place. This time there was a rental contract, behind closed doors again. The producer company is being invited. Imagine renting a $1 billion building. Friends rented this place to their producer with 60 grand a month plus VAT. You build a building for $1 billion, 60 grand plus VAT, behind closed doors again, you rent it to the producer, and why do you do it? The IMF and the World Bank commanders are coming. Are we an evil country? Are our resources so abundant that we, the IMF, and -- I don't know -- let's spend money like this, hogging people from all over the World Bank? Now, this Undersecretary of Treasury is going to go back and save money on the PTT workers, who are giving orders, knowing, implementing. You'll be freeing yourself from this. If you like to be liberalized so much, why are you in socialism in TOKI? TOKI, there's free competition -- construction, housing -- there's socialism on the ground, and you're liberalizing in the infrastructure industry in PTT, where poor public workers are working. A little consistency... but this inconsistency is causing you to take the workers' affinity. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0157par0405	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that Article 27 of the 452 Ordered Postal Services Bill, which is discussed, be changed in (1), (2), (3) and (5) in the following way. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends The PTT personnel are employed according to regulations issued under law No. 657, KHK 399, and under this law, which organises contractal labour. "The duties of the members of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out according to the provisions of the law concerning hiring, title, number, posting, training, promotion, promotion, promotion, discipline, dismissal, renovation of contractuals, or renovation of contracts, according to the rules of the Council of Ministers. According to the career and merit measures of institutional staff, there can be no difference between staffed personnel and contract personnel, and no distinction can be made. The terms of the contractual staff's monthly salary, bonuses and other financial and social rights are determined by the Governing Body. However, the monthly average of all payments made under monthly fees, pensions, benefits, compensations, grants and other names, except for the guardianship fee, cannot cross the upper limit set for PTT by the Higher Planning Board. The firm's monthly salary, bonuses and other financial and social rights are agreed upon by the General Manager's proposal and by the decision of the Governing Body. The monthly fee appointed by the Governing Body cannot cross the upper limit for PTT by the Higher Planning Board. The collective agreements on the specified verdict are sealed. ▪ In terms of social security, the contracted personnel are subject to the provisions of Article 4 (c) of Article 4 of Article 5510. These personnel will receive final compensation in accordance with procedures and basics concerning those employed on rule 399 of Law II. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0158par0419	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0159par0420	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0157par0421	Reason, please. It is intended to ensure that there is no distinction between employees employed in the institution in terms of financial and social rights, respect for the rights and maintain the current employment structure. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 27th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 452 Orders Numbered Postal Services Bill 28th We propose and propose that the article's first joke be changed in the following way. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu ▪ 1) The full and immediate payment for the activities of the PTT (PTT) is essential. However, if the Governing Body sees the need, it can set different payment bases in installments from 2 months to 6 months. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0160par0437	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0161par0438	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0157par0439	Motive... The bill has given the Governing Body broad powers. It is possible that the Governing Body will set different payment periods for these broad powers to different senders through political pressure. Thus, to eliminate this possibility, it was intended that a reasonable period of time be put into the text of matter under legal rule. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 28th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 29 of Article 4 of Article 29 of the 452 Ordered Postal Services Act, we propose that the declaration of two years be changed to 10 years. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 452 Orders Numbered Bill 29. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Fair Kurt Pervin Buldan Ayla Akat Ata Altan Tan Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0162par0460	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0157par0461	I'm reading the reason: Contracted employees, who have been working unsecuredly with an administrative service contract, are being punished as public servants for their crimes with this clause of the bill. In addition, the right to make any demands regarding PTT services and to sue them in situations in which PTT is responsible belongs to those who benefit from that service. The declaration of rights to information of trade unions and NGOs has been taken from them. Therefore, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 29 of the 452 Ordered Postal Services Act, we propose that the statement of the first sentence of Article 4 of Article 29 shall be changed to ▪10 years. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0163par0474	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0164par0475	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0157par0476	Motive... The proposal aims to create parallels to the new Turkish Trade Law provisions 6102. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 29 is accepted. There is a motion on Article 30, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the reference of the 452 Orders of Postal Services Bill be changed to ▪ in the 1st Article of Article 30 in the text work, which is part of the 30th Amendment. D. Ali Torlak Ali Halaman Zuhal Topcu Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0165par0491	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0166par0492	Motive...
tbmm-2013-05-08sit06spe0157par0493	Motive... The proposal is intended to create parallels with the definitions of the law under Article 3. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 30 is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-05-08sit07spe0157par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 101st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 452. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Oil Law Bill and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, the decision was made on Thursday (May 9th 2013) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
