tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 111th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. On May 27, 1992, the first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Sinan Oğan, MP of Iğdır, who asked for the anniversary of Iğdır. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0002par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today is the 21st anniversary of our Iğdır, of our veteran Kars, leaving the province on May 27, 1992. On this occasion, I have made a promise. I salute our Veteran Assembly. First of all, I want to point out that today, at the same time, the date of May 27th means something else to us. One of Turkey's most important statesmen, one of its ministers is Gün Sazak Bey's 33th anniversary of his martyrdom. On this occasion, yesterday, we understood the Memorial Day of the Announcing Martyrs. I want to say once again that we have not forgotten the sons of our country who willingly gave their lives for their country. Today is the day of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which we also know as the two states of one nation, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, called our joy and sorrow. I would like to celebrate it on this occasion. Dear MPs, today Ardahan and Iğdır are separated from our veteran Kars, a separate province. On May 27, 1992, this decision opened the way for both our Iğdır (Iğdır) and our Ardahan (Ardahan) to develop as a separate province. Unfortunately, in the last decade, during the AKP's rule, both the AKP's power stands as a serious obstacle to Iğdır (Iğdır) and there is no service that the AKP's power has brought neither Ardahan (Ardahan) nor Iğdır (Iğdır) into that sense, unfortunately, is not available. Iğdır became a province, but you looked at Iğdur as a hand in your time of power. Iğdır once again cries out to you from here and says: "We are the only province east of the east, and we are not the hands, we are the most precious corners of this land, we are one of the most strategic provinces." Iğdır, unfortunately, is very much in trouble. Every year it rains hail, the Iğdır farmer takes his share of the hail, but our Minister of Agriculture closes his ear and eyes to the busy farmers, as if he were not the Minister of Iğdır, but only the Minister of Diyarbakır. He asks: 'What have you done as a government?' What measures have you taken, how much of our farmer's damage have you paid? Do you have to get a minister out of Iğdur to do that, or do you have to tie Iğdur to Diyarbakır? Why don't you see Iğdır as a hand, the 76th province? Many HES were established in Iğdır. In our time, we thought that HESF would be useful to Iğdır, and as the people of Iğdır, we did not oppose it. But, Mr. Secretary, the HESIDEs founded today in Iğdır, unfortunately, brought drought to Iğdır. The dam has not yet been built. Before you could solve Iğdur's dam problem, you set up hees, like beads to Iğdır, which brought the Iğdır farmer to the point where the Iğdır farm would be dry. Today in the world, we still scoop up our channels every year, while we now have the enema system in the world, and our citizens are trying to water their fields from the canals they've dug with that ladle. Does not a minister of water in this country listen to these matters? Your ministry's representative is the head of State Water Affairs at Iğdır, but he is busy sending DSI to the jobs of fellow AKP citizens, business agricultural equipment. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this? Dear lawmakers, counting the problems in Iğdur will not fit in five minutes here. We have a lot of problems from the land roads problem -- the most traffic accidents in Turkey -- until the problem of air pollution in Iğdır (Iğdır) -- but unfortunately you look at Turkey not as the 76th province of Turkey, but as the hand. Therefore, the people of Iğdır punish you, and will continue to punish you. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. The second non-responsive statement is to refer to Erzurum MP Genghis Yavilioğlu, who has asked for a statement on the accession duties of the 27 May Subcommittee under the Commission. Here you are, Mr. Yavilioğlu.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, yesterday was the anniversary of the May 27th 1960 coup, which some at one time celebrated as the festival. I made a promise with this relationship. My goal is to talk about the characteristics of the 1960 coup I believe to be the mother of the coupgers that became a reality in the years after. As you know, the coupgers, a Prime Minister and two ministers, hanged. These executions, meaning hanging the nation, determined the setting of politicians in the years that followed by fear. As Demirel said, in many of the works we have done, we have remembered Menderes, who is on the gallows, so the executions have put a limit on the ideas and actions of politicians. For many years, many politicians have not crossed that psychological line. With the 1960 coup, the media wrote for the first time a success story with a pre- and post-drug and disproportionate publishing policy. On May 27th, this understanding of students being passed through meat grinders, writing about the slanders that Kars and Ardahan had been sold to the Russians continued in the following times. Finally, on February 28th, the civil society stood up, and there was violence in the street, and six million signatures, and the new crisis at the door, and finally reached the peak of its success with the alternative-ready headlines. The sad thing is, the information under these headlines has been used as evidence for the closure of parties in every coup process and then in the courts. The same understanding continued in 2008 in the closing of the EC PARTY. After the 1960 coup, after Cemal Gürsel, President, it became a tradition to have soldiers in the presidential office, with high authority, without responsibility from the other side. First, the 1960 coup began to limit rights and freedoms on the basis of national security. The TSK, which has previously been referred to as mobilisation and national security, as a national defense, has declared more of a domestic area than abroad because of the context of national security. After 1980, the emphasis grew stronger. National security is not limited to the Constitution alone, but also to national security strategy documents and all government policies and state structures have been abandoned to security-based national structures, education, health, trade, all of them. After May 27th, the coups were sustained, so it was impossible to compress the blows into a specific date range. Since then, we've been hit all the time and all the time. And how was that done? With the duties and powers of the National Security Council and the MGK Secretary General to intervene in civilian space, with the decision of the Constitutional Court to shut down dozens of parties and restrict freedom, with the military criminal laws and courts that have earned autonomy against civilian space, with the decisions of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council, and with the Internal Service Law at last. Dear friends, there is absolutely no class victimization of coups, a whole people who are victims, and this victim started with the May 27th, 1960 coup. As you know, there's been a Commission on coups, and I was a member of that Commission, so we've drawn up a report. Dear friends, I care deeply that this report be read and read, and I ask you to do so. On the other hand, all members of the Commission and the results and proposals that we have voted for and approved by unanimous vote must be taken into consideration by all parties and carried out immediately. It is imperative that the remains of May 27 may be wiped out and there will be no more coups in our country. In the period of our EC PARTY governments, important decisions were made and carried out to eliminate and strengthen civil space, which began with the declaration of April 27th, which began with that honorable counterposition. There's still a lot of work to be done. I'm not one of those people who believes the impact is no longer there. In the name of civilization, we'll have to go a long way to democratize. Meanwhile, two joyful laws have been issued following the work of our Commission: one of them will be returned the assets of the foundation, association and NGOs which were confiscated after February 28th; the other, the Democratic Island Project, which I had participated in a year ago; there was a project to turn Yassida into the island of democracy. I thank those who have passed the work, and hereby ask for the mercy of God to Menderes and his friends, and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Yavilioğlu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Security) who wants to talk about the problems of the district of Chile in İstanbul. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0006par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear MPs, on 26 May 2013, I joined the seed exchange festival in the village of Kabakoz in Chile, Istanbul. What did we see at the seed exchange festival? Of course, the seed is the source of life. The seed is self-renewal. Freedom of seeds is the natural right of every farmer and food producer. The rights of farmers to store seeds, to develop, to grow, to sell seeds are the arteries of freedom of seed. When these freedoms are taken from the farmer, farmers are in debt, victims, and that's where we come in today. Chile is our oldest historical, tourist and cultural district with 779 square kilometers of municipalities from 1923 to now. What are the problems of our Shile County? Our Shile County has a health problem. There aren't enough doctors at the public hospital, not enough equipment at the public hospital, not enough intensive care at the public hospital. Patients arriving in the emergency room of the state hospital are transferred to İstanbul to about 70, 80 per cent and 90 per cent. In fact, some die on the way if they're having a heart attack. In this sense, there are only 57 villages in Chile County -- Agva -- which had previously been a municipality and became a village -- in our village, where there are no doctors. So there is no health care in our 57 villages, and there is no health care. We've got a problem with the city. There is a problem with transportation from the village to Chile, a problem with transportation from Chile to Istanbul; the IETT bus does not work; the large air-conditioned public buses do not work; small buses are running; and our citizens are travelling in a hoarding manner. So, in the municipal elections, we will handle transportation. The mayor of Chile, who said that he had not been able to solve this problem for two periods, has suffered a great shortage of transportation from both our village -- 57 villages that have been transformed from the Metropolitan Law to the neighborhood -- to Chile, and also to Istanbul. There's a problem with commercial taxis in our Shile district. The question of commercial taxis is this in Chile: Of course, when the Metropolitan Law became the city, all the villages became the neighborhoods. Trade taxis carrying passengers from Chile to Sabiha Gökçen Airport are being treated as pirates at Sabiha Gökçen Airport, with a fine of $1,950 to be fined and banned from traffic for 60 days, if it is not the owner, and if it is the driver, it will be $1.950. Dear friends, farmers know, the people in the village know, a sheep gets a pelt, a sheep gets two pelts, if an act is a crime, one must be punished. If you are the owner of the same taxi driver, you will fine $1.950, and the driver is $1.950 minus 1. 950X2- you'll get a ticket! Two fines is incompatible with fairness, with a sense of justice. Just as when it's taken into the big city, its land gains a lot of money, all of these commercial taxis have to work everywhere in accordance with the principle of equality. At the same time, the IETT bus doesn't work. The freighter center has zoning issues, villages have zoning problems, our young people have no carpeting grounds, no areas where they can have fun. So, what hasn't been done? What is promised and not made by the AKP's municipality? At the Crying Rock Cemetery, the mosque was promised; it wasn't done; it was to be built; it was to be a German-Austrian cooperation hospital; it wasn't built; it was to be closed garages in the terminal area; there was a big garage problem; there was a closed parking problem; it wasn't done. So, what's been done? The freighter camp was sold, the city's Grand Hotel was sold, the movers in the meadow were sold. Of course, what institutions are missing from Chile when these are sold? No cadastro administration, no environmental protection department, no IETT, no public bread. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The people of Chile do not need the AKP. There is a cure for democracy, and the cure is the Republican People's Party. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0007par0058	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. According to Article 60, I will make a promise to our first ten friends. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. President, thank you, thank you very much. Now, the wheat harvest has begun in Adana these days. Therefore, I wish the Adanans the blessing of the wheat harvest, and the blessing of the good. Now, despite the beginning of the wheat harvest... it's often called the field crops office, the farmer's black-day friend. But Despite the harvest, the Department of Agriculture didn't open it. Two: the agriculture ministry, which has been traditional for many years and is called the price policy, has nothing to say clearly to the farmer about the base price, and the districts of Adana have nothing to say clearly.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0009par0068	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, because of World Farmers' Day, we attended ceremonies in the village of Sultaniye, Izmit. We've met many village chiefs and farmer friends, listened to the problems. In particular, they said that after the rain fell last week in Komemeh, in Mashukiyah, in Derbent, in the Courtburin, and in the villages of Balaban, about 200 percent of the cherry producers said that their cherries were damaged because of the rain, and that they could not bring them to the market because the edges of these cherries had reached the point of decay, and that the harvest had remained in the garden. They also identified it with the agricultural chamber authorities and the authorities of the agricultural loan co-op. Their demands are: "If this cherry stays in the garden, we're losing it. Our request from the authorities is that we now owe the agricultural loan co-op to about 500,000 Turkish liras, and we ask that this debt be postponed. It will be announced to the authorities.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0009par0072	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0011par0074	Mr. President, on Sunday I joined the convention of subcontractors in Kütahya. Most of them were subcontractors who worked for Seyitömer Linyit Enterprises. They've had intense complaints that they've worked eight months and been out of work for four months. The worker who was in a business accident shows the government's responsibility when asked for an ambulance fee of 150 lira. They ask the Prime Minister, "How are we going to take care of three children for 773 liras? There have been days when we could not receive wages for six months. They're moonlighting on vacation. The worker is being signed a $20 million note, received a notice in advance, and they ask, "How will a case be opened for $1,170?" Although it is the 26th, they complain that they cannot receive a salary. Workers fear unemployment and lack of future. They want to be staffed for their main job. Give us our rights and we don't want anything else. They call out publicly to the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0009par0076	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0012par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. The problem with Arhavi Kamilet Valley remains because of the construction of the hydropower plant. This stream -- you know, I mentioned earlier -- is a paradise valley, where a hydropower plant is being built. This valley is one of the two most important valleys of the Black Sea, also one of four valleys throughout Turkey. I said that on Wednesday (January 16, 2013) at the hearing of the Minister of Energy. After all this talk, the Minister of Energy himself said: "We will take care of this work as soon as possible, especially, of course, as soon as possible. I mean, I've been to Artvin twice in his place, but once again, I want to go on this occasion only. He made a statement. I'm speaking to the minister here: although you made such a statement, unfortunately, it is wanted to be entered with business machines, where trees are being cut down, today is tomorrow. Mr. Secretary may have been late when he got there. So once again, I speak to the Minister here: Stop the murder at Kamilet Valley. You made a promise in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that I will go there and see. Please keep your promise.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0013par0081	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Nazmiye Demirel, the wife of our 9th President, Mr. Süleyman Demirel, is dead. I ask God's mercy to Mr. Nazmiye Demirel, an exemplary lady, a model leader's wife in her lifetime. Mr. President Süleyman Demirel and his relatives at first, I offer my condolences and patience to all, including his family. Last night, the action was carried out earlier this morning by volunteers who intended to keep the Payum Travel Park green in case business machines were working. I hereby declare that we support this group of people who have made efforts to keep the city's lungs, a green area in the center of Istanbul, and a massacre in the middle of Istanbul, and I condemn the government that has committed a massacre by removing the trees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And while the members of the group are expressing their statement on the agenda, I hope the deputy presidents will be a little more tolerant. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0015par0089	I'm already promising the vice presidents out of ten, so, you know, the system's set for a minute.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0014par0090	You're just giving me a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0015par0091	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you, Mayor. Osman Gürbuz, 34, why did he burn himself by pouring gasoline in the Istanbul Fatih Municipality building yesterday? Osman Gürbuz was a traveling salesman on the streets in Fatih district, selling confection products at the mobile counter. In a statement issued by the Fatih Municipality, Gürbuz has declared that there are no documents or information available in the municipality. Osman Gürbuz's goods were said to have been taken from them three times. Is this stuff in the municipal warehouse, or has it been impounded? We're waiting for an answer. The traveling salesman who burned himself shows the situation of unemployment and living in Turkey, which cannot be ignored or ignored. He was fired from his job or shut down his business or even lost his job, and the trained segments joined the vendors. The best customers of vendors and traveling vendors are small-time civil servants, workers, tradesmen and students. The problems of traveling vendors and vendors must be taken seriously and solutions must be found. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0017par0097	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. In 1989, immigrant dwellings were built to meet the need for the housing of our family members who emigrated from Bulgaria to our country. 24,000 immigrant families have been victimised by irregularities, corruption, and corruption in this project. This sacrifice has lasted for 22 years. Although the 15,200 euro down payment of these citizens, which was paid in March 1991, they are still victimised by the fact that thousands of lawsuits have been won and the Supreme Court has been approved. As this is not enough, 7 per cent of VAT, which should be 1 per cent of the law, has been collected, and between 20 and 30,000 liras per dwelling has been overpaid over the past period. The members of 24,000 immigrant families... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... So about 300,000 of our relatives have no confidence in the state, the law, justice. There's a right and there's a law.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0019par0103	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0018par0104	I call upon the authorities and the government to deal with the immediate removal of the victims of these citizens and with the interest of their losses.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0019par0105	I can't have a five-minute conversation in a minute! Mr. Dedeoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0020par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. In some areas, the National Cotton Council wants to pay a bonus to support producers who are in a difficult position to express that cotton planting is damaged by negative weather conditions. We also have many farmers who are affected by negative climate conditions. I demand that this support bonus be given at once. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0021par0111	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0022par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the President of the Yeniköy Association of Ardahan Province, in Yeniköy, has just told me: "We want to build a house in the village, but they force us to build a mosque here with the district of Lakee and the municipality; they even forced our headman to come and threaten us in the district. Let these citizens not interfere in building their faith. AKP must not interfere. And with a final decree issued by this AKP, Mr. President, in many ministries, the branch manager, the head of the department, the chief of the department, and the deputy chief of staff, they've been appointed as advisors, and instead they've brought their own men here. The amount of these is 8,000 people, and these are the ATM officers. For years, he worked in the government for thirty years, twenty-five years, and they get paid at the ATM. Someone says to the minister: "Yahu, why did you bring us here, why are you taking us away?" He says: "There is love in you for this republic and for Ataturk. We are building a new staff to destroy them." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, it's not really nothing.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0023par0119	Mr. Sun...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. It's been fifty-three years since May 27th, but the wound continues to bleed. The period of impacts began on May 27th, and all the following blows entered through the door of May 27th. If it weren't for May 27th, Turkey might have had a democracy and an developed economy that is being coveted today. The hanging of Menderes and his friends is not forgotten, of course, that he was subjected to inhumane treatment. The human dimension of the matter is as important as the social dimension. It is one of the most tragic and embarrassing events in history to be tailored, humiliated like an enemy captured by soldiers under the command of a Prime Minister. An account that has been postponed for fifty-three years is now in front of the court. Some circles try to underestimate it, but the distances are great. Turkey is experiencing a silent revolution, trying to monitor the sediment of the coups, the problems it brings to society.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0023par0124	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0025par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, now, 63 sane people are traveling all over the country. He's alone, he's got 63 smart people, but he's got 263 police cordons. And they came unto Iğdur, and Kars. The police blocked the freedom of our people to travel in Kars. The Kars Police Commissioner who put a cop on almost every citizen's head... prevents our people from even crossing the side streets. From whom does the mind protect these people, this Kars Police Commissioner? I'm asking you here, and I'm waiting for your answer from the Home Secretary. How can the government's officer, the state's police, prevent our people from showing their democratic response to freedom of travel? Mr. Home Secretary should answer that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0026par0129	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0027par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, despite the fact that the people's will has been granted in democracy, military coups have demonstrated their understanding of the state against democracy as a result of the interruption of democracies. One of the coups in Turkey that set up major obstacles in front of the will of society is the May 27th military coup that set up barriers in front of the development of democracy. We say that we have condemned this military coup, which is the vanguard of many antidemocratic, authoritarian state institutions that have come to this day, once again in the sight of democracy and the will of the people. We say it is now inevitable that the House will be given the will at the point of eliminating the necessary efforts to clear our political history of military coups and the victims of military coups. In order to disable antidemocratic, oppressive practices, facing the mentality of military coups, resolving the victims, changing the laws that follow the trail of coup boots... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that a civil liberal, democratic, egalitarian constitution must be carried out immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0028par0135	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0029par0137	Thank you very much, my dear President. We, the National Movement Party Group, pray for the blessings of Almighty God to the wives who lost the life of our 9th President, Mr. Süleyman Demirel. We ask for patience and health for all loved ones, family members, especially Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0030par0140	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0031par0142	Mr. President, thank you. The 9th President has received the mercy of Mrs. Nazmiye Hakkk, the wife of Mr. Süleyman Demirel. As an AK PARTY group, we extend our condolences to Nazmiye Hanım, asking for God's mercy, to his grieving family.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0030par0144	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Mr. Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, 141, 479, 480, 510, 515, 699, 701, 712, 729, 851, 1074, 1075, 1109, 1109, 1161, 1167, 1195, 1241, 1245, 1309, 1348, 1353, 1371, 1401, 1410, 1526, 1553, 1637, 1653, 1653, 1654, 1653, 1654, 1654, 1654, 1651, 1161, 1161, 1167, 1195, 1195, 1195, 1241, 1245, 1309, 1341, 1341, 1401, 1401, 1410, 1536, 1553, 1637, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1653, 1654, 1653, 1629, 1629, 1629, 1699, 1699, 1692, 1692, 1692, 1692, 1699, 1692, 1699, 1699, 1699, 1699, 1699, 221, 221, 1699, 2199, 2199, 2199, 2199, 2199, 221, 2199, 2199, 2199, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 2199, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the fire, which took place on 16 December 2011 at the Siverek district of Şanlıurfa, the office's archive section was completely burned and most of the documents in the archive were burned to the ground. In order to determine whether the fire caused by the District Agriculture Directorate is related to false invoices that have been cut off by the directorate, whether or not there was a conscious fire in order to destroy these documents, I respectfully submit to the need for a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. 5/3/2012 [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] 6) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 11) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 27) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] The department's archive was completely burned in the fire that took place at midnight on 16 December 2011 in Sivrek district of Şanlıurfa. According to media reports, the fire started in the archives of the directorate. The fire started in the archives of the District Agriculture Directorate at midnight, mysteriously, so many of the department's documents were burned to the ground. Before this incident, the news was on the agenda that the County Department of Agriculture was billing plastic. The fire's on top of all this. The burning of the archive department prevented the plastic bill from being illuminated because there were no bills left to examine. If there's been a crime, it's too much to shed light on. The fire has raised different questions in the minds. A doubt has come to the public's attention as to whether or not the County Agriculture Directorate deliberately burned the plastic bills in order to make them disappear. The dissolution of this hesitation was necessary to investigate whether the County Agriculture Directorate had filed a plastic bill, and if such a crime had been committed, whether the fire had been deliberately removed to cover this crime, and if so, it had to be investigated for the identification of the person or persons who did it. In the fire at Siverek County Agriculture Directorate, the office's documents found in the archive were burned to the ground, as well as the application files for agricultural support and computers where farmers' records are kept in the district have been burned to the ground. The investigation into the fire has also been launched by the police. For reasons explained by Siverek County Agriculture Directorate, I respectfully submit that the fire that caused the destruction of all documents and records and made it impossible to determine whether or not the administration was able to cut the plastic bill was deliberately launched, and in order to identify the people who did so, the Constitution would need to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, we make it necessary to investigate the causes of the increase in sexual abuse and women's suicides, to investigate the effects of lack of education, poverty, and these negative developments, to establish measures to prevent violence, sexual abuse and women's suicides, and to determine the equality of women and women's-men's equality, and to open Parliamentary investigations under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey. [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 4) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Niğde]] 23) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] In recent years, we have seen violence against an increasingly growing woman with examples of the conscience of all our people. The violence against women, sexual abuse against women and children, and sexual violence, have also become frightening. In addition, women's suicides are common, especially in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. These events have hurt society deeply, hurt society, and hurt the public conscience. The prevention of violence against women has taken steps towards achieving equality with men and women, but not far enough. Turkey's situation is not acceptable in the proportions of violence against women between OECD and European Union countries. Many women submit to the life of hell because they have no place of refuge when they become violent. The integrity and life of a woman who doesn't know there are ways to fight violence is at stake. Often, a woman who is oppressed by tradition and customs, unable to find refuge under violence, commits suicide. In particular, there have been significant increases in women's suicides in isolated areas in recent years. Sexual discrimination, lack of education, and poverty increase the inequality of women. The turnout rate for women who are not getting enough education is dropping. Poverty and unemployment have the worst effect on women. The woman, unable to find the means for education and employment, is powerless to resist violence and discrimination. While education should be the most important element in preventing violence, education should be at the head of the policies to be created, there will be a way for girls to leave at an earlier age, with the proposal given to the ruling party by lawmakers to build mandatory education in the form of 4+4+4. Clearly, this step is not consistent with efforts to prevent violence against women. The government's basic duty is to protect its right to live. It is not enough that only legal measures are taken on preventing violence, protecting women and children, which has reached the end of the most basic human right to live. The development of social consciousness in this sense is essential for a change of mind. In order to develop social consciousness and ensure a change of mentality, education must be appreciated at every stage. However, the expected change of behavior may occur, and violence can be fought against the woman. One of the most important revolutions of the great Ataturk is the revolution of equality between men and women. It is not possible for a country to be modern and successful in public life and in working life that does not include women. Turkey must quickly take steps to ensure the equality of men and women, bringing their daughters and women to a strong social life. For these reasons, parliamentary investigation of violence against women and children is required to determine the reasons for sexual assault and female suicides, preventing all violence against women and measures to ensure equality of men and women. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Unions are the most commonly defined organisations founded to protect and improve employees' economic and social rights, their freedoms. The right to establish a union and to defend common economic, social, political and cultural rights and interests collectively is a basic human right for everyone. It is the basic duty of the social state to meet and secure the basic rights of anyone who wants to defend their rights and interests through their unions. Unional rights have been guaranteed directly and indirectly in many documents and contracts adopted by the United Nations and the Council of Europe, particularly the rules of the International Labour Organization (ILO). So this area is an area of freedom where universal rules apply. Contracts that protect ILO's hard work and rights of labour are mandatory rules of working life. These rights, defined and guaranteed by agreements 98 on the Protection of the Union's Right to Union and Union Freedom and Organization and Community Negotiation Rights, are severely violated every year in our country. Still in effect, the September 12th military coup product 2821 and 2822 laws have a structure that allows trade union rights violations, which are free of union rights. In our country, the number of workers' unions in particular is rapidly diminishing. In 1980, when our population was 45 million, the number of union workers was 2.5 million, our population today was 74 million and there were only 600,000 workers who benefited from collective contracts. The most common union rights violation today is that employees are fired because they are union members. It is a violation of the Union's right to have employees resign from trade unions they have chosen by their own preferences, to be forced to become members of trade unions close to governments, to be pressured by trade union freedoms, to be able to operate freely in trade unions, to run strike strikes, to continue the production of employers in various ways, to resort to irregular ways against the law, to avoid union organisation, to transfer jobs to subcontractors in regular ways, to the subcontract of the subcontractor system, to use this system against union organisation, especially to replace union members, representatives and managers' positions in public. Unional right violations in our country also appear in reports of the International Unions Confederacy (ITUC) almost every year. As a matter of fact, the ITUC report recently submitted to the meeting of the World Trade Organization in Geneva stated that Turkey violated its internationally accepted basic working standards. Turkey's information on women's labor, child labor and union rights is included in the report. Again, an assessment of labour rights and union rights in the European Union's 2011 Progress Report stressed that the current legal framework is not in line with EU standards and ILO contracts. The same report included criticisms that workers continue to be fired due to union membership and trade union activities, that cases are not effectively handled by courts, that some are deprived of organisational rights, that trade union demonstrations are perceived negatively by relevant authorities, that restrictions and excessive use of force. The presence of trade unions, considered the most successful institutions of the past century, is the height of union organisation, the prevalence and scope of collective agreements, the guarantee of a strong and functioning democracy. Unional rights are also tools to achieve social justice, social peace and social welfare, starting from the level of business, which will ensure the redistribution of income. For this reason, unions must be supported in a way that is protected against any interference of power, especially political authority. In this sense, the reasons for the decline in union organisation in our country are that we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution shall be opened in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in order to establish and determine the necessary measures, to determine ways to promote and improve the development of union organisation. [[Ankara]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 11) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Balıkesir]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 16) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Niğde]] 20) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly National Assembly of Turkey Vice President Prof. Dr. Mehmet Sütın's Minister of Culture and Tourism Ebulfes Garayev (Secretary) and Intercultural Dialogue 2. The official visit to Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, to join the World Forum, is presented to the General Assembly under the 6th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0032par0344	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit01spe0030par0345	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0030par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. On Wednesday (May 29, 2013), the President of Tunisia Moncef Marzouki, who will visit our country at the invitation of Turkish President Abdullah Gul. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 28/05/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On 27 May 2013, the motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation on Tuesday 28/05/2013 (now) in the General Assembly to determine the reasons for the explosions in Reyhanlı, which we gave to the president of the TBMM, and whether or not the attack could have been avoided by intelligence agencies to investigate and to determine the measures to be taken so that similar attacks could not be repeated. In favour of the National Movement Group's proposal, the first word in favour of Hatay MP is Mr. Şişik Uçük. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0033par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as you all know, on May 11th, after the great suffering of our country's borderline city, the city of Serhat, Reyhanlı, we have made a motion to investigate whether there is a security weakness in this case, why the attack can't be prevented, and to avoid the same weaknesses as possible attacks. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'd like to begin now with security weakness. In the first place, there's an explanation that we thought was the first day of the incident, our Prime Minister. It is the Prime Minister himself who said that there may be an intelligence disconnect between the National Intelligence Agency and the police department regarding the incident, and therefore, in such a research proposal, the statements of our country's Prime Minister are the main issue. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have suffered a tremendous amount of pain from Reyhan, and they are suffering for decades to come. I wonder what the government did, despite numerous warnings, despite the fact that this matter, this tragedy, this brutal massacre, has shown itself. It was an opening, so don't let the mothers cry. She made peace with literature, negotiations, negotiations instead of dealing with terrorism, the province of the 63s, in an environment where our media deals with it every day, did the government do their duty or did it do its duty at the point of preventing this attack? We, Mr. Chairman Oktay Vural Bey, have made the necessary warnings here under the roof of Parliament concerning both Reyhanlı and Hatay. Are these forts taken? When we look at an incident where the identities of the dead were still undetectable, at the point of identification of the dead, when the authorities had not finished their work, or had not yet begun, suddenly, the names of those who killed them, or the names of those who were involved in the assassination, and the origins of these massacres were in the air, and they fell into our press. It's in the investigation phase, we don't call it anything, but if we're close enough to the same event on the same day, within the same hours, why couldn't we stop it? Dear friends, the government is responsible and must account for this responsibility in the first place to Reyhanlı, then to Turkey and the Turkish nation. For two years there has been suffering in Hatay. As refugees and as refugees, people who don't know what they're doing or even have a passport come to Hatay, go around, go around, go out, the borders are open. Last time I spoke to him, he wrote on the border stones, writing at the entrance of the border. He said, "Hudut is chaste." From here, let Turkey know that there is no virtue left in the border. If there is no virtue in the border, there will be no virtue in the land. This is clear, clear. Look, under the circumstances, there's a lot of talk going around in Reyhan, like the MOBESE records have been erased. So you've been sitting on the bomb for two years, and for two years, the Reyhanian MOBESE has been indifferent. I can't help but notice that there might be any incidents in this county, that there might be something, that we should follow properly, that we should do well, that we shouldn't be lacking in technical surveillance. You don't think about setting up a MOBESE. Fifty-two lives gone. Now, it's all set up from now on. The crosswalk door's closed. For what? It's for safety measures. When? After 52 lives were lost, after a city matter and meaning were destroyed. Dear friends, these are the responsibilities that must be accounted for, and the government must not escape, escape, escape. Fifty-two lives today. Today, the Reyhanite is devastated by material spirituality. One-third of Reyhanlı has emigrated from Reyhanlı, moved to nearby counties and neighbors. Those in good economic condition of Reyhanlı are looking for homes in nearby counties to live from now on. This means that a city will also end financially. The government's measures today will not save Reyhanlı. Can Reyhan be declared a disaster zone or not? What is to be expected for a district to be declared a disaster zone, to be declared a disaster zone in a district living in terror of the century? If the law is missing, the National Movement Party will assist and support the law. It's become a disaster zone, Reyhanlı, for once it's forgotten. It is said today that the Employment and Labor Foundation, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear friends, there are 190 policemen in Reyhan. It's been like that for two years, not one more. The population of the city is 50k, about 50,000 Syrians. Has the number of doctors increased? Are there more cops? Are there more soldiers? What's all this about not being a security guard? In addition to all of this, for once, I'd like to say that we, the National Movement Party, were there on the night of the incident. My friends, the head of the entire agency, have done everything in our power to make sure that things don't get any worse, especially with the Reyhanian organization. We worked with the mayor of Reyhanlı's ruling party; he's a dear brother, and he's the best chance of your power, but as a result, at the point that there was no more painful event after that, the National Party of Action did its part in its reign and its dignity. But from now on, it is the government's duty, and the government must be legalized with the people of Reyhan. What's been done to win? Mr. Prime Minister has visited the county. Look, our Deputy Group President, Mr. Oktay Vural, Mr. Mehmet Shandır, our Vice President Mr. Semih Yalçin, our Secretary-General Mr. Ismet Büyanatman, all of these have come to Reyhanlı, and hopefully, very soon, Mr. President of the State Garden, will come to Reyhanlı, and he will share his suffering with his people. However, all of these came in a position to be integrated with a certain dignity and to unite with the people of Reyhan. Mr. Prime Minister's arrival, of course, is a pleasure to visit our city, but, for God's sake, who made this Prime Minister's schedule? Who brought him down to Reyhan with five helicopters? In Reyhanlı, where there are 34,000 people who should be able to talk to Reyhalil, there are 34,000 people from the counties, from the districts, from Ankara, from the Altınözeşe. What are they doing there? Who piled up the factory workers? I wonder if there are any Reyhan people at that rally. At that rally from Reyhan... we call it a rally, a rally... So Reyhanlı is having a hard time establishing the relationship between condolences and the rally. The Prime Minister says, "You must be Ensar." He says to Reyhanlı. I'd like to make it clear that Reyhan is an Ensar. The government is looking at 15,000 people in the camps, but Reyhan is looking at nearly 50,000 Syrians. What we understand from the Ensar, and what we do know is that the Prophet who emigrated is the Medinans who took care of the hospitality of our lord and his surroundings and embraced them, and they are the emigrants. Now, it's hard for Reyhan's people to relate to the possession of homeowners who cut off the heart of the soldier he shot. All this needs to be reconsidered and the government needs to come to its senses at this point. His martyr brothers have been insulted. Who knows what pressure he's under, the PM's bodyguards have insulted their fallen brothers, insulted his martyr father. The Reyhans couldn't handle it. The Reyhanite, because he'd already seen them, he couldn't accept the rally, and he hasn't been there. All of these mistakes must be accounted for and Reyhan's wounds are wrapped in Reyhanlı. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you, all of you, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0034par0041	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. The first word against the nationalist movement group's proposal, Mr. Adem Yeşildal of Hatay... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0035par0045	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. I hereby salute your delegation with the most heartfelt of feelings. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as it is known, on May 11th, a brutal, brutal and despicable attack was carried out in Reyhanlı district of our Hatay. This is a despicable and offensive attack on the peace, tolerance and brotherhood of our city of Turkey, Hatay, to eliminate these features of our Serhat city of Reyhan, and to disrupt the peace and peace there. In this regard, from the very first moment of the incident, we've been with our government officials and our people as district lawmakers, we've shared their pain from the very first moment, we've cried with them, we've embraced them. Of course, our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Besir Atalay, our Minister of Health, our Minister of Interior, our Minister of Justice, all the ministers of our cabinet, were at the scene a few hours later. As you know, of course, all the resources of our government have been mobilized, the pain has been tried to embrace, the wounds of our people have been eased. Of course, on the other hand, our government's relevant units, our security, our intel on how this happened quickly went down. As the congressman has just stated, indeed, while the identities of the citizens we have just martyred have been identified, the people who have done it, the people behind it, where they are planned, our units on who are their collaborators have done a quick work. Here, in fact, the important thing to focus on, dear friends, is that while we're still smoking smoke over our Reyhan, while our people's pain is fresh, while the bodies are being buried, while someone here has tried to start a campaign. They've launched a campaign before the incident has been cleared, without being identified, and unfortunately, the heads of several political parties were involved in this campaign. The MPs, just half an hour later, hooked up to television and made irresponsible statements. As the government's relevant units, not the government's, explain the official figures, there are 150-200 serious injuries, denying official figures. The death toll is now 70-80, and the death toll can exceed 150-200. They have made some statements that will increase our people's infinitiveness, that will undermine the peace there, almost as if they were trying to get a political runt from here. Even at a time when our Hatay was in so much pain and faced such a foul attack, a number of opposition MPs were irresponsible. I set aside those who are responsible, those who stand by the official numbers, those who invite our people to be dutiful. Such events are a test for all of us, for all of society, and our nation follows them carefully. Of course, there are a lot of things that need to be expressed here, and I'd like to underline a few of the important ones. Right after the incident, just after May 11th, I think I made a promise on Tuesday, May 14th on a similar matter on behalf of our group. From here, the vice president of the Republican People's Party has made several statements: How did you find it so quickly, how did you find it? We have doubts about these statements. They said, "From here, they have expressed from this council bench. They said, "We are grateful." How do you identify these individuals, and how do you reveal them so quickly? The governor of the state, the commissioner, the relevant agencies of the state, the prosecutor's office, the judiciary, of course, went over it; it was the data from there. Then they claimed that on the 14th of May, everyone knew that this attack would take place. And in response to him, when I came up here on the stand, I said, look, we warned him that those of you who did this, in the lightest terms of your speech, that the people who did this, the people who were collaborating, the people who set off this bomb, the people who betrayed the country, the networks of betrayal behind it, would be perceived as an attempt to clean up. We then stated that the delegations of the Republican People's Party are leaving, meeting with Syria, the dictator, doing consultations, even taking pictures in the same frame and publishing them all over the world over social media. I wonder if everyone knows. By that, the dictator told your delegation to go there. Turns out, fellas, those sudden and impulsive exits here had their reasons. Today, some of it was reflected in media-released organizations, reflected in their paintings. What's it called? We're about to have a valuable member of parliament speaking on behalf of our group here to share that picture with you. The planner for this work, the leader of this ignominious attack abroad, the planner, who escorts the Republican People's Party delegation, greets him, takes him to Lazkiye, takes him from Lazkiye, takes him to Damascus, negotiates with Assad, meets not only with the Republican People's Party's delegation, but with him.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0036par0052	Who? What's his name?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0035par0053	And it turns out that in the rush of that, these are the ones that are being expressed, and to cover it up, these are the kind of impulsive exits that are being made to hide these facts from the public. Guys, let me be clear, when you look at that picture, it's got names.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0036par0054	Is that a list you were given?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0035par0055	And let me make it clear that there are people on that committee who don't actually share those thoughts. I know that, and I have to hand it over, but unfortunately, there are MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly who are pawns there, and I regret to say so. Friends, despite all this provocation, all these efforts to stir up our people, Hatay, our Reyhanite, my dear brothers and sisters, has faced this attack with courage and patience, and has never broken that mighty approach. Some media organizations have also slandered our brothers from Reyhan. The Reyhanite is not hospitable, but torments the guests there. They have made accusations, such as the original, which have no lining, that have nothing to do with the truth. I'd like to point out from here that I'm condemning them as well. On the other hand, while Reyhanlı was still smoking smoke, even though I personally called and warned him that Hatay's social peace was ahead of everything, despite my warning that the Republican People's Party's MPs had been pressured to send a message to the county agency, yet people held a rally in Reyhanlı district without burying their funeral. How do we explain this, dear friends? Now, when all these facts are revealed, how are they going to look at the faces of our brothers there, who are organizing these rallies, who are scratching our people's sensitivities, who are there to lead our brothers from Reyhan in different directions, how they will explain to them, how they will explain to them those who are on their own committees, and how they will explain this to them, and I leave it to our nation's discretion. Of course, I need to make it clear right away that patience and common sense have become, like, a Reyhan's monument. During our Prime Minister's weekend visit to Reyhan, he welcomed our Prime Minister, our brothers from Reyhan. From here, I'd like to remind our esteemed Hatay MP, Sefik Bey, the MP of the group who had this proposal, that he didn't come to the rally to embrace our Prime Minister. Isn't that disrespectful to our Reyhan brothers in that square? For God's sake! We were there with our Prime Minister from the beginning to the end, and he stopped at dozens of points, getting out of cars all over the street, and he hugged our people. I'm speaking from here to our brothers from Reyhan, is it true or is it true that the MP has expressed it? Give me a break. Our Prime Minister's visit from Reyhan has been highly positive, has been a source of morale, motivation to our people, where the unity has given us messages to strengthen unity, and has embraced our people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0037par0065	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0038par0066	Mr. President, the speaker has been very hard on the Republican People's Party MP delegation from Hatay to Syria in his speech, sir. Mr. Mevlüt Dudu...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0037par0068	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0039par0071	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0040par0072	The chairman of the committee is here, why isn't he answering? Mr. Mevlüt, I like you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0039par0073	I like you, too, Mr. Greendale. Dear MPs, we've been to Syria twice. I was on two delegations to Syria. We went four times at a time with our congressman friend. All of Turkey, all of our people, all of the public know what we're going for. We didn't go undercover, we went public, we went with the journalistic army, we served the photos, we got the press access. What I'm trying to say is that we didn't do anything secret, and that's why we're going. The first time we went there, we freed a fellow journalist from captivity, brought his freedom and family back to his loved ones. The second time we went, we went to see if we could save a journalist, an American journalist, but we were told that the person in question wasn't in their hands. That's why we're leaving. There's only one explanation for making a difference, and that's the guilt rush. In order to cover up what the government lacks, the ruling party itself, let there be a trail of mud horses to escape its own guilt from the public's eyes. I'd like to express that we never found this right on behalf of my party and my friends. The terror of the Republican People's Party is out of your league and out of your league. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0041par0078	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0042par0079	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the member of parliament spoke of the Republican People's Party MPs who were part of the delegation to Syria. I'm returning this to him. We have the honor of all lawmakers, but there may be people at the ruling party who speak in order to pull the trigger. We're not going down to their level, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0043par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0044par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0045par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0083	Let's go one at a time. Now it's time for Mr. Safik Ugly.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0047par0085	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0086	He just spoke for you, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0047par0087	No, since I'm on the board, it's also directed at us...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0088	But now I can't give all the board members an answer!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0047par0089	But, no, there's an attack on all those friends who were there.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0090	So I'm going to give it to all 5 of you?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0047par0091	If they want it, they need it all, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0092	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0047par0093	But there's an attack on all of them.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0094	I get it, but he answered.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0047par0095	If you'll excuse me, two minutes...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0096	Here you go, all right, all right. It's a start. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0048par0097	Mr. President, but you have to give it to the group, sir. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0098	No, now, sir, I'll give him the president; our other friend is the vice president, then I'll give it to Sefik Ugly, and then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0048par0099	I don't mean it that way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0100	Okay.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0048par0101	Now, our friends have just objected to the speech made by Mr. Adam Yeşildal Bey, who said this. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, our friend has responded.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0102	He's a member of the board.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0048par0103	It's not every person talking like that...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0104	I get it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0048par0105	Your earlier statement was right, it was in order, it was in accordance with the Civil Law. But right now, by reproaching, you've said, "Here you are." It's not proper. I want to express it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0106	What do I do now?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0049par0107	Sir, the people who are here are called the delegation.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0046par0108	I get it, bro, okay, for God's sake! Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0049par0111	Now, dear friends, look, we've been trying to explain to the AKP for 27 months: The policy you follow is not in the interest of the people of Turkey or the people of Syria. With these policies you're following, you're leading the region to instability, creating chaos in the region. We said, "There is no telling who has entered the border or who has left the border, so take the necessary precautions." But, unfortunately, none of our warnings have been taken into consideration. So, I'm asking the AKP MP friends: Is this the last time we lived in Reyhan, the first time we lived in that area? What about the perpetrators of our incident in Gaziantep? 50 of our vehicles have been attacked before, 13 of them looted, and the rest burned; where are his perpetrators? We've had an incident in Cilve-Eye, we've lost 17 citizens, what about that case? I went to the prosecutor's office. I swear, there's a confidentiality order. Where's the file? In Adana. In connection with an incident that took place on February 11 in Adana -- four months later -- the indictment has not been filed, there has been no trial, nor have they been disclosed where those perpetrators were, nor have they been arrested. Well, all of this happened in that area, and you couldn't prevent it. Who runs this country? Doesn't the AKP run the government? So why couldn't you stop all this from happening there? Why haven't the police intelligence department's reports been taken into account? There was an explosion at the center of Reyhanlı, friends; look, one in front of the municipality, one in front of the PTT. And it's a sensitive area from Reyhan. There are explosions in front of two official agencies, using a ton of explosives, according to the terrorist expert. So, why didn't you get the intel on this, why didn't you get in the way of these explosions? Sir, he's gone to that place or something and he's gone in this car... pass it on. Look, in this region, the responsibility for all these explosions in this country belongs to the ruling AKP government. You can't get rid of that responsibility. Sir, the elephant went and came and so on..... when we were going to Syria.. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...even the State Department knew, we had official documents. We didn't do this in secret.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0050par0117	Thank you. Mr. Ugly, here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0051par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the esteemed MP said something about you hugging the Reyhans there, and the Reyhans wouldn't take it well. Now, sir, for once, what's wrong is that there's a rally going on here first; it's a shame. There's no rallying, there's no such procedure, there's no such thing in politics. I'm reading a message here. If the congressman asks, I'll show him the owner of this message. This is a martyr's brother. My heart is burning. He got this text last night. I lost my brother in the explosion. Some of them came to us, had a rally. Our pain is great. We're disappointed. He says. We're ashamed of it. And if we have any doubts about whether there are Reyhanians at that rally, let's sit down and watch it together. I'm from Reyhan. There's already a mile of barricades set up there for the Reyhanite. How's he gonna get here? There are thousands of cops. How's he gonna get here? And the one who wanted to come didn't come, but the Reyhanian didn't accept a visit like this. He's also upset that the Prime Minister is late because he's the head of government. He's right, they have 72 percent of the vote, that's what the Prime Minister says. Then why don't we come, then why don't we hug the Reyhanite, why don't we? Perhaps, our people may complain of you, but Reyhan is well-behaved, kind, not insulting the Prime Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0052par0125	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0053par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Look, Mr. Prime Minister expressed a fact today at the AK PARTY group meeting. As our congressman is Hatay MP, he has again highlighted a matter in his true frame, bringing it to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's important that those journalists you served, the ones that our friend expressed in the photos, the pictures in the police department, the ones in MIT, the ones in the National Intelligence, are in contact with the people who planted the bomb inside the vehicle that caused 52 people to become martyrs. You can go there, you can go there in good faith, you can go there in sincerity, but if there's someone out there who abuses your good intentions, your sincerity, your good intentions will be all the way to the subcontractor point. We say: Today, instead of standing next to Syrian President Totaliter Assad, who slaughtered 100,000 people, stand by the oppressed nations of the Republic of Turkey, stand by us. Instead of criticizing the Syrian President, it has become a policy for you to criticize the government of the Republic of Turkey and its Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0054par0132	You've been arm in arm for six years, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0053par0133	The work you're doing gives the Syrian President the opportunity to kill that tyrant. We're telling you not to do this. I'd also like to say to Mr. Ugly: Look, on May 11th, we're doing a program at the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bashir Atalay Kayseri. Information came through that program. Mr. Atalay immediately made his calls based on this information, detailing that information further. On the Prime Minister's orders, Mr. Atalay took a private plane to Reyhanlı to return to Ankara and went with our ministers. Now, Mr. Shandir explains why Mr. Prime Minister didn't go? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He asks, "Mr. Şandir, has the State Gardener left?" And Mr. Shandir says, "Our friends are already there, there's no need to go."
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0055par0138	One is the Prime Minister, the person who runs the state.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0053par0139	Look, while the dear friends, the Deputy Prime Minister and all the ministers go there and investigate this matter in its place...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0056par0140	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0053par0141	...Mr. Prime Minister left yesterday due to foreign travel.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0057par0142	Don't you ever look at the British Prime Minister?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0056par0143	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0053par0144	They're saying there's been a rally. Why are you trying to insult the majority of the people as a rally at the meeting of the Prime Minister to share their suffering with his enthusiasm?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0056par0145	Mr. Elitaş, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0058par0146	Mr. Elitaş didn't go to America when the funerals were there. Who goes to America when the funerals are there?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0053par0147	I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0059par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0060par0150	No, now, Mr. Ugly, you don't get an answer. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0061par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have a pain. Politics over our pain, polemics don't get anyone any better; injustice is an insult to our martyrs.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0062par0155	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0061par0156	Turkey is run by the AKP, and the AKP is headed by Prime Minister. The Prime Minister should have a problem with that if only our people had a stone under their fingernails. 52 of our people have lost their lives, more than 100 of our people have been injured; Reyhan is burned, destroyed, going to America. How can you compare whether Mr. State Gardener went to Reyhan to the Prime Minister's absence to Reyhan? We don't do politics over pain, we don't do it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0062par0159	That's what we recommend, and you shouldn't, but you don't know what you're doing.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0061par0160	We don't, you know that, but we remind you of your duty. 52 of our people have lost their lives. What was the position of the Prime Minister? He should have postponed his trip to America and gone to Reyhan. Sir, there are going to be conspiracies, some people are being abused... these are excuses, these are excuses. Mr. Elitaş, we, the National Movement Party, are doing politics on behalf of this nation, we're talking about the anger of this nation, the Reyhanite is furious at you. What the congressman said isn't true. Reyhan accepts that he has been insulted. That's where we're from. We can show you the messages. You've done wrong, you've done wrong. The person of Reyhan asks: "What was our sin? " What is the sin of the Reyhan people? Does he deserve it, must he suffer it, suffer it? Reyhanlı was burned down, you saw the mayor's building, like Baghdad, bombs like a Middle East city, 52 of our people lost their lives in Reyhan. As the National Movement Party, we will not forget or forget the Reyhan massacre. You're responsible for this, you can't get away with it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0063par0167	In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, the second statement is in İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk. Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0064par0170	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, what are we talking about here? There's been a major terrorist incident in Reyhanlı, 52 of our citizens are dead, more than 100 people are injured, and this is the guide of the People's Party of the Republic, this is... what does that mean, for once, what guidance, friends? Are we going to Mount Everest, crossing the Gobi Desert, or is there such a thing as a guide? Republican People's Party MPs wrote to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as they were leaving, and wrote to the Turkish Republic's Damascus Embassy; they went and had their talks. What did they talk about in their interviews? From now on, let this violent work end in Syria, and find a solution through dialogue in Syria. From the beginning, we're in the wrong business. The government has no contact with Syria, and we make that contact. We are the owners of this country as much as you are, and we complain about the violence in Syria as you do, and we don't want the pressure of the regime, but the People's Party of the Republic has brought this. Let's not spend time with them, let's talk about Reyhanlı. Look, the Reyhanian incident, the Cilve-Eye incident, other events before that, has always brought us to a point where now, the image that Turkey has given out: Turkey has joined the violence spiral in the Middle East. It's also doubtful who did the incident in Reyhan. Do you guys know? I don't know, and I'm not sure you do. If you know, please share it with us. If they tell you behind closed doors, in your own group, this one did it, this one did it, this one did it. Let us know about it. Look, since 1960, Turkey has a tradition. That tradition is that foreign policy is national policy. I was on my way to Antalya recently, and by chance Mr. Ali Naili Erdem of the former Minister of National Education sat next to me, saying: "In 1961, we were in opposition, while Ismet Pasha was in office at that time, he would have had the Foreign Minister at that time, Feridun Cemal Erkine, briefing the leaders of the parties represented in parliament every Friday. They'd have our opinion on that briefing. I wondered, I was a young politician then, I asked, why are you doing this, Pasha? I said, foreign policy is a very important issue, the most important issue in the country. Foreign policy is about the survival of the country, its continuity, its continuity. That's why I have to do this, and I need your opinion. Do you guys even know how to talk about this? This happened, this happened, this did it, this did it... we want to investigate. The National Movement Party's motion, come, let's investigate this together. What's that, what's that? Reyhanlı, Hatay, the people there are very worried; we went, we saw, and the people there said: "What happens tomorrow if something similar happens the next day?" Look, guys, there's a young group of breakthrough hackers called Redhack. They pulled out their police intelligence documents. He's saying something else, something that government officials say. Let's see what's true and what's not. There's a gag order, not to put a gag order on these things, people need to see it, understand it. Besides, Hezbollah stepped in, Iran moved, Russia's situation was different. We're heading towards a point where the events that began today in the form of civil war in Syria are becoming a regional conflict. It is time for Turkey to stay away from them. Now, look how many times we've told you, we've asked you; we're working together under the same Parliament; you're lawmakers; the Justice and Development Party Group must and must and must ask the Secretary of State to ask you what you're doing, brother, where we've come from, where we're going, what's this? No, he's under the influence of Assad's mother, but he's the one who's been guiding from the other side... and so on... and so on. Is that even possible? So let's get serious about this Reyhan thing. We personally, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group again, on December 14, 2011, I warned all the friends who wanted to take a look at the rules, and I said, "Did the policy you applied in Syria cause this policy to come back to us in a way that threatens our own personal security? Turkey is a country based on sensitive balances of the Syrian President. Has it occurred to you to take precautions against the threatening words of the prophet? Look, all we're saying is... it's not always nice to be right, I'm not happy to be right here. 52 of our citizens lost their lives, and still the Republican People's Party Group went like this, and the delegation went like this. This is what the first delegation did, and the second delegation -- not these, my friends -- there was a major assault on Reyhan, and there was a major assault on Jalebözü, and the bullets fell on Akchakale. What did we do behind all this? We didn't do anything. It's all: we're having a big government reaction, a big government reaction. Is the great state response to silence? As far as we can see about the Reyhanlı, the real reaction or the big government reaction is to investigate compensation, I don't know how we're going to satisfy it, we're going to compensate it. But is it this, is Turkey worthy of it, is Turkey worthy of it? Now, my friends, please listen to these words, because these are words that have passed through the long experience of a profession. So, I'm not saying this to make politics here. This country, as I just said, we all, we all have to join hands. We've got to get out of bullshit, gossip, stuff like that. 52 of our citizens died there, hundreds injured. Don't let similar events happen again. So, we need to open this investigation here. But what's going on? No, sir -- most people say -- there's no need to investigate; our superiors are doing it, our officers are doing it. An hour and a half after the incident, vehicles were detected; two or three hours later, most of the perpetrators were arrested. What does that mean, guys? Knowers know this, which means that the security forces were watching the group or groups that did the incident, but they were watching, which means they weren't able to coordinate or coordinate enough intel, because maybe they didn't know they were going to do such a big thing. If he wasn't followed, would he be caught in an hour or three hours later? That means there are major setbacks. We're saying we need to find a solution to these setbacks together, and we're not saying anything else. There's no reason for you to yell at me like that. We're not accusing anyone, we're not disrespecting anyone, but we're saying that we're going to tear up our country. Turkey was a very heavy country in this region not too long ago. A country like this, whose word was heard, whose words were sought by troubled lands, whose word was trusted, and whose words were not called "my friend" tomorrow. He was also afraid of his power, and he is not afraid of Turkey's power now because it seems that he has no power, he can't do anything. Our plane is going down, there's no hits; there's an explosion in Reyhanlı, there's nothing; the Greek Cypriot administration of Southern Cyprus and Israel are looking for oil in the Eastern Mediterranean, there's nothing. We're losing our weight, our presence, everything, so let's pay a little more attention to each other. Let's not object to the words spoken in terms of parties or as if we were a team. Let's see what he means. Let's see what he means. Let's see. And let's ask our friends, who are in charge of our own party, at least in our own party, how did you get this country to this point? The Justice and Development Party has been in power for over a decade, but we've been coming to this point for the last four years, and we're going down, folks. You gotta watch out for these. So, don't take this Reyhanian thing too lightly, don't make it too simple, don't try to divert the target in other directions, let's focus on this, let's not let it happen again, let's slowly clean up our Syrian policy from this pollution. Just two years ago, in Nasrallah's bunkers, where we criticised him, while he was working on government mediation between Nasrallah and Saad Hariri, the same organization he was head of today, the organization of Nasrallah, the agency, where you were also in the cabinet at the same time. Could it be that zigzag? Can you get this far from one point to another? Think about it, and do the politics, and you're capable of doing it, and I know you can all do it, but there's one thing that's wrong, you find that thing, you see it, and you try to fix it. So, as the Republican People's Party Group, we support the parliamentary research proposed by the National Movement Party. Let's do this research, and we'll discuss this for a long time, not ten minutes, but longer. And you guys come and express your views here, not necessarily in the form of a party holding, but in the form of a common mind, so that we can save our country from these things, again, as a great, proud, proud, trustworthy, respectable, and powerful state as we used to be. Otherwise, the clock is ticking, the clock is ticking, and if there's a major regional disturbance, we won't have time for that. My respects to all of you, my friends.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0065par0184	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. The final word against the National Party of Action Group's proposal, Mr. Mehmet Ölturk of Hatay... Here you go, Mr. Önturk.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0066par0188	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and I have made a pledge against the National Movement Party's proposal. I salute your high council. As it is known, two separate explosions occurred in Hatay province on Saturday (May 11, 2013), around 1:30 p.m., in front of the municipality, and then in front of the PTT building. As a result of this explosion, 52 of our citizens were killed. First of all, I condemn this inhumane, abomination of terror once again, with great hatred and hatred, from our brothers who have lost their lives, from God the Most High, to their relatives, and to our great nation, and to our wounded brothers who are continuing their treatments, to seek immediate healing. Immediately after this sad event, all the state's departments were involved, all measures were taken to provide for the urgent needs of our people, and under our Prime Minister's orders, the esteemed members of our government immediately began to heal the wounds of Reyhanlı and repair the scars of the attack. Right after the Reyhanlı incident, we arrived at the scene immediately, with a delegation of our own Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Minister of Health, Minister of Interior, Minister of Interior, MP friends. Immediately after the incident, the relevant ministries established emergency crisis centers at the General Command, Security Directorate Hatay Governorate and Reyhanlı subsidiary, operating on the basis of 24 hours, and closed the border doors in case the suspects escaped, and units were alerted, and vehicle entrances were controlled. In addition, necessary measures have been taken in the camps in Reyhanlı and other counties for any negativity against Syrian residents who have been guests in the shelters. Talks were held with NGOs and opinion leaders in the district to prevent and prevent unwanted events from being challenged. I'm here to express my gratitude to my fellow citizens from Reyhan and Hatay, who are no part of the provocations. Dear MPs, on May 16, 2013, our President also visited our district of Reyhanlı. During this visit, both our friends from the National Movement Party and the Republican People's Party accompanied our President, our people from Reyhan, and our people from Reyhan showed genuine interest in our President. And on Sunday, Mr. Prime Minister Reyhanlı visited the stadium, and I think you should have seen the flood of love in six to seven kilometers, until he received a message of condolence, a condolence to the people of Reyhan.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0067par0192	Give me a break, will you?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0066par0193	All our Reyhan people were on the streets, all our Reyhan people welcomed our Prime Minister. It wasn't a rally, there were four condolence houses that were taken into the program here, but we have about 50 citizens that we lost in Reyhan, where we should offer our citizens a collective condolences, to give them moral support, to invite them to common sense. It's not supposed to be a rally. If there had been a rally, you had seen those squares before, and there would have been hundreds of thousands in Hatay. Dear lawmakers, from the moment of the incident, all institutions, institutions, health care teams, ambulances have served in a very serious way. Today, all the problems related to the loss of vehicles, workplaces, housing damages continue to be resolved by our government, praise be to God, whatever problems they may have. At the time of the incident, $7.5 million was sent to Hatay Governor's order. On this trip, our Prime Minister also said: "All interest in our Reyhan trade is being expunged." Our Reyhan tradesmen receive four-year interest-free loans. The state supports all the needs of our Reyhan tradesman, and will continue to do so. But at a meeting there -- he was very important -- a martyr father, Ahmet Abi, asked for a school from our Prime Minister for his son's name; he was very important.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0068par0197	Forget it, tell me why those men died.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0066par0198	We, from Reyhan, know that our government is with us. None of this is...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0068par0199	Don't worry about the ad. Forget the ad! Just tell me what this is all about.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0066par0200	It doesn't matter, but I just want my son's name to live. He said it was very important. Dear friends, the purpose of this inhuman incident in Reyhan, its goal, as far as it's concerned...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0068par0202	Don't even talk about it!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0066par0203	If you just listen...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0068par0204	Don't even talk about it, I don't know what to listen to!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0066par0205	Listen... listen...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0068par0206	What should I listen to, shame! Listen to me. Don't call me that. Listen to me. You're going to say, "Listen to me."
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0069par0208	Mr. Longhorn, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0070par0209	...to hit the peace of our country and provoke the people here to face each other and provoke the people of the region, that's the point. The terrorist action in Reyhan is an action against Turkey's stability. The timing of the action that took place during this period when we as a country demonstrated the will to resolve our problems is also quite significant. We need to assess this action with our position in the region, along with developments and developments in our country. We have to be extremely careful, sensitive, and most importantly very calm in the face of any provocation to draw Turkey into the bloody swamp in Syria. Great states are states that can keep their cool in the face of events, think with their minds, and act with their minds. From the beginning of this bloody process in Syria, with violations against our border districts, with the attack on the Cilvegözü Border Gate, and some other provocations, Turkey's patience is being tested, as if it is being drawn into a dirty scenario. In particular, Hatay is wanted to create chaos and be put to trial by provoking certain sensibilities in our province. From the very beginning, we've been very careful and cold-blooded in the face of such initiatives, and from now on, we're going to keep it strong. On this occasion, some comments and evaluations that have caused information pollution on social media, and I would like to inform you that there is no environment as mentioned here. Dear friends, this attack has nothing to do with Syrian dissidents or asylum seekers. After the incident, aiding and abetting individuals who have planned the action have been taken into custody by our security and intelligence agencies without delay. Dear President, the esteemed MPs were notified on May 8, 2013 of a voice-producing bomb attack by Hatay Police Department. This tip was issued to our security units on May 9th, while all of these relevant institutions were informed. This information, along with our province of Hatay, has revealed that the action has been carried out by being brought to the scene of the crime in a short period of time, with preventive measures being taken in many places, but it appears that no vehicles have been released into traffic and have been stored in a basement. As you know, the fight against terrorism is carried out within the rules of law and within the binding provisions set by the law, and the judicial proceedings are carried out accordingly; however, terrorist organisations carry out their actions. But I'd like to stress in particular that so far, many vocal acts of terrorism, including our province of Hatay, have been prevented due to the measures committed. Mr. President, my esteemed MPs, my brothers from Reyhan and Hatay, were not provoked, they stood up to those who tried to provoke us, to turn us against each other; they did not allow provocative, segregation and segregation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, lately, in the Reyhan case, all parties are visiting -- we thank you -- everyone should do it, but politics shouldn't be made over it. Look, our friends went to Syria twice, and they said, "We're going to get the journalists. You can go, we respect that. So, why didn't you go to Afghanistan? I'm asking you from here. Secondly, this person who appeared in the newspapers today... I call his name Abu Firas, Mahmoud K. What's the dialogue between them and their party? Is he a member of your party? Where do you come from? I'm waiting for an answer to that, too. And from here to our people of Reyhan, I thank you again to our people, Hatay, who has indeed stood firm in the face of these events, he has handled it in the best possible way. I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0071par0218	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0219	Mr. Orator has raised a question. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you another answer.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0071par0220	Now, I'm going to tell you a joke. The Ancestors have a promise, it's beautiful, it's perfect for our situation. But anyway, I gave up. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0224	Dear friends, look, whatever people you're referring to here, whatever they're connected to, if this case is on trial, let the courts -- we're lawyers -- let the judge decide that.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0073par0225	I'm asking questions. You're together. I'm asking a question.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0226	Look, no accused has been taken into custody yet, and no one has been taken into custody, and the Prime Minister has come forward, saying: "Those who have committed this incident have committed this act to undermine the peace process." After that, our Home Minister came out, made another statement, and then our Minister of Justice issued another statement...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0073par0227	What did he do? What did he do?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0228	And right now, you're trying to confuse the public with unknown information about who you are and where you get it from.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0074par0229	But you're having a meeting together. What's this?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0075par0230	Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0231	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0076par0232	Look at the picture. I mean, look at the picture.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0233	If you...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0077par0234	You're in a meeting together.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0235	I wasn't at the meeting.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0078par0236	There's a picture of you. There's a picture of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0237	I'm not there. Listen to me.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0079par0238	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0239	Please, look, if you are going to criticize our friends who have spoken with Beşsar Assad, you will not take Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, and ESO, to your left, and turn Syria into a dish of blood.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0080par0240	Don't demagogue, answer the question.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0241	If you want to know who you're cooperating with, please go public with the airport records. If you want the public to know how you turned Syria into a pool of blood, go and share with the public how many ships you have brought from Alexanderun Harbor, Egypt, Libya.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0080par0242	You two have a good relationship, you share it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0081par0243	Tell me how you know that.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0244	So, what I'm asking you, dear friends, is that there's no record of MOBESE in Reyhan, why don't you explain these records?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0081par0245	How do you know all this?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0246	We've put in a group motion to investigate this incident from here. If you really want the perpetrators of the Reyhan incident to be discovered, if you're sincere about this, you say yes to the motion that we've made here, and you go over it with a commission of lawmakers of the four parties, and it's out in the open. In case this doesn't turn out to be the same as the flirty eye thing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as long as it's not the same as the warrant case...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0082par0249	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0072par0250	If you're sincere in this case, let's set up a commission and look into it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0082par0255	The nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0083par0256	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0082par0257	...I submit to your votes, I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient: All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 28/5/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. It has been suggested by İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger and 23 lawmakers to be read on Tuesday (28/5/2013) in the same day's presentations and talks on the same date, before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from Mr. Erdal Aksunger. Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0084par0272	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've asked for a general meeting recently, especially since I don't understand anything about the FATIH Project, but it seems that no one will come here and explain it. What is this FATHIH Project? The Prime Minister went to America, arrived, and again the projects were postponed. I don't know what to do. I've been in this business for 20 years, I'm a tech guy, I've been in training, I don't know where this is going. I've talked to all of our friends about this in Turkey, where this project will take us as an education, where it will take us as technology, no one understands anything. Now, look, I don't think this kind of scandal has ever been seen, and no one understands it. Billions of dollars will be spent, and there are very important decisions being made about Turkey's future, and there is no man coming to tell the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's all been done during the three national education ministers, in the last four years, no one has understood what happened. I've explained here before, you've built IT classes, spent $6 billion, thrown them in the dumpster. Right now, I.T. classes are all trashed. They'll accept it themselves, and if they ask the Minister, he'll accept it. Now, you've sold Turkish TELECOM for $6.5 billion. The debt to the IMF was paid. You say, there were 23 billion dollars in debt to the IMF. The value of this institution, which you call Turkish TELEKOM, is 35 billion dollars today. If you'd sold it today, you'd have given it $23 billion, and you'd have pocketed $12 billion. Look, you spent $6.5 billion on IT classes, the price you sold Turkish TELECOM. How's it going in there now? It's a dump. Now, what the ministers have already said about this project, I'd like to share with you here. Mr. Minister Zafer Calashan said that the FATHIH Project is getting everyone's attention. Our goal is not to give more account deficits, so we want these computers to be produced at maximum, in Turkey. Another Minister, Nihat Ergun, says 86 percent of these productions will be domestic, and the tender has been postponed three times at the point where we arrived today. Do you know why it was postponed? Because all the companies abroad are being pursued. And what happened was that almost all of the developing and improved countries in the world have made their own plans, strategic plans. They all finish in 2015, except for us. Turkey is now the world's largest consumption frenzy on this issue. We want half as many tablets as Apple. 10 million tablets. Why do we want it? We were going to make a native. Now the Prime Minister has gone to America, where they have postponed the tender on the 27th. Why? The president of Microsoft showed the Prime Minister something else there. He's got some smart friends with him, and they believe whoever he's in contact with. That tender was postponed again on Monday, because it's going to be followed by strangers. It's not just that this buy-in deal isn't going to go away -- I'd like to point out to him -- the future of Turkey is going on. Thirty years these kids are gonna grow up with these stories. All of Turkey's strategic institutions will be like this, and public institutions will be like this. I thought you said the local was going to be encouraged. How will you give it to me? You're doing $20 billion, you're getting 11 million tablets, you're doing it in 2 lotts, you're doing 5 million, 5 million, 2 lotts. Three hundred million dollars in security letters, and a local manufacturer will be here, and he'll be in this tender? Are you fucking kidding me? There's no such thing. Sir, they said: "We'll bring Pardus, we'll put it in." In all the schools of the country, local, open source-coded software will be used. You're trying to encourage Microsoft, the richest man in the world, inside. For 30 years, you will finish the entire strategy of this country. You'll see, I'm telling you here today that in 30 years these children will grow up with these tablets, no more I.T.s in Turkey, no more in Turkey, no more industrial, no more in Turkey, depending on this business, I think, will never be able to recover. Now, he's going to use the Pardus Project in the FATHIH Project. He says, Mr. Secretary. Now, our Minister of Technology, the Minister of Technology, who says he understands this -- Minister of Science, Industry and Technology -- says that 86 percent of them will be domestic. We'll just take the glass from the outside. What's the glass? That's the Minister of Technology. What kind of glass is that? This LCD says we don't have to make it in there. What kind of comedy is that? Would a minister interested in technology say that? It's a joke. It's a joke. This is what you call an LCD panel production. You have to invest $10 billion. Sir, there's more supply in the world. Where's the supply surplus? Who says that? Which source does it say? There's no such source. I think you're going to waste Turkey's money too. It's a loan job. Where does it come from? Who's in for the bid? No one's allowed in but four companies. Nobody gets in here but four of the world's largest giants. What happened to domestic production? What about these people? The only thing that 10,000 companies themselves considered reasonable about what you call the FATHIH Project was that if we were to get a piece of what you call local incentives, we'd have at least a chance of doing their own domestic production in ten years. I'm not saying we would, because you didn't have that kind of plan. I'm not saying he would, at least it would have been a possibility, and you took him out. In the coming process, you will see how Turkey really is the satellite of countries like America. All of your stock markets, all of your digital data -- unfortunately, you're condemning your children -- are in danger. Of course, what does the Minister say when he says that? They took him for a walk in Silicon Valley, and told the Prime Minister to use the pen, children. He said, "Then cancel the contract and let's do it again." What do we do? Let him write with a pen on it, children. What happened? Yeah, well, pedagogically, there's no explanation for that. There's no such educational system in the world. Take a look at the countries that have the best education in the world, and look at the Scandinavian countries. What we said: "You see, children receive three hours and five hours of training, but they take life by living, by touching life." There is no such thing. You will turn Turkey into a technology dump. Yeah, there's an example of that, from 2005 to 2011, you spent 32,000 IT classes, you sold Turkish TELEKOM, you put money there; it's all junk, it's all junk. Yeah, it's not about the money, we've been here. Turkey's future is by encouraging digital infrastructure and domestic production, encouraging open source codes, but unfortunately you don't have that vision. Since you have no vision, let me tell you something: last year under the roof of this House, we established an I.T. and Internet Research Commission, where 1,100 pages of reports came out. We made it a partnership with fellow AKP MPs, where we wrote it all down. If you need a vision, if you want to get a source, go look at it, ask those friends, don't ask us. That's what we're saying for the good of this country. We had dear friends, and I had people I admired. So I thought, of course, he became our ignorance, and we thought that we were working so hard here, making so many reports, probably when we're going to practice or when we're doing practice, we're going to have to look here. Unfortunately, there goes the Prime Minister, where Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft, says, "Come, we'll take you to Silicon Valley." They're going there, and they're writing on the tablet, and they're canceling the $20 billion project and they're postponing it a month later. Why? That kind of infrastructure, so we can set up a condition like that. Yeah, you're selling the country, you don't know that. You don't know you're selling the country. Now, friends, he really understands. Ten years later, this country becomes irreversible. If we don't develop our software in our own, local open source code, if we don't encourage it, you'll see that at the moment you're here, neither your industry nor your education nor all your strategic institutions will be able to get anywhere, you'll see that. It's not about the money, you're wasting the country's money, it's another matter, it's garbage after three years. You're going to buy five more times, that's 100 percent, because three years from now, there won't be any tablets anyway; I'm saying it here today, so you'll see. And you're going to go after TELEKOM, and you're going to go through the infrastructure, and I'm going to go through the tablets, and you're going to raise almost $60 billion in 15 years in a runt pool with somebody. Yeah, it's a shame about this country, isn't it? After all, isn't it a shame about these kids? How will this country rise? Do you have such a plan of action? No. Guys, if you don't trust anything, trust your own friends, but unfortunately, I think it's just another scam, and I think it's just another lobby, and you're selling the country. I'd like to make a note here today: you sold this country as of today. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0085par0292	The first word against the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Kars MP Mr. Property Birtane. Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0086par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a promise against the proposed proposal, but I will speak in your favor. I salute you all. In education, FATHIH Project and education will provide LCD panels, interactive boards and web infrastructure for 570,000 of all of our schools at primary and secondary schools, for the effective use of IT technologies in learning, for the use of more sensory organs in the process to improve technology in our schools. It's a broader discussion of how much this goal is happening, but right now I'm going to count a few of them, and I'd like to think about what this project contributes to the almost boned problems of education. Unfortunately, the government is unable to resolve the problems that continue in education in line with the requirements. Instead of finding solutions to these problems, the government is making changes that will cause new problems in education. Education in Turkey is open to ideological impositions, because all the rulings of the past have shaped this area on the basis of their political views. According to this understanding, educational institutions are where individuals are raised to pledge allegiance to the government's goal. That's exactly what FATHIH is all about. Can the equality of opportunity be achieved by installing computers and smart boards in schools in this messed-up educational system? The model changes involved new applications are required in the education system. This model must be done within the framework of scientific evaluations and research, as participant and open to negotiation. Non-scientific, anti-sociological reality, non-negotiable, and imposed changes mean nothing more than the transformation of education into an ideological vehicle. A comprehensive project such as the FATHIH Project, as expressed by EDUCATION-SEN, has been done by me. It cannot be carried out with logic. It has also been expressed by our party, which the ministry intends to place such various projects and models and large companies in our educational system so that they will never come back into our education system and completely commercialise education. The educational system urgently needs planned policies. While the school's physical infrastructure inadequacies were enormous, the FATHIH Project was invested millions of dollars in technological investments, opening a large market for international capital. Is it clear to you that this project, which is said to have access to opportunity equality and technology in education, solves what problems in education in practice? I'd like to share with you one of my notes on school problems in the villages during my meeting with the village chiefs in Karaziman in May. There is only one classroom at a elementary school in the village of Karakale, Kağazman Province, Turkey. The number of students in the school is totaled by 20 students from Tap's mehra and 8 students from the village of Karasone. When the united class was too crowded, the villagers made the school housing a classroom. In that case, the teachers must have had to live in the headman's house. Combined classrooms with 80 people, two chartered teachers with no place to stay, 30 students walking to school in winter, and 80 students who don't know what to do after reading the first four years in total, where to continue, are just an image of the education system at the Karakale village of Karakale education system in Turkey. The district director of National Education, the teachers, are voluntarily staying at the chief's house. Yes, the government says it's equal opportunity, but the situation in the villages is clear. How is it possible to reach these students with this project? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the sensitivity of our teachers who bring the problems of practice to the press must bring us to our senses. Our teachers make these statements: "The textbooks are loaded with tablets, which is an advantage, but the students prefer playing games and traveling on the Internet rather than listening to lessons. They think it's unnecessary to bring books, notebooks, and textbooks to school. Dealing with the tablet during the course prevents you from concentrating. Students who look forward to the recesses that enable children to socialize now wander through the classroom, and no one leaves the classroom. With this project, the government has practiced a system that does not need a teacher. In that case, it brings a new disappointment to hundreds of thousands of teachers who are waiting to be appointed. This project is considered a project that will affect teachers, students and parents as a whole, but since the project does not have infrastructure, it has revealed a parent profile that is practically ineffective, a teacher, a student who can't reach her child, and a student who can't. Speaking of unregistered teachers, the problem of unhappy teachers who came to the point of suicide came as a result of the change of field before he was resolved. We all followed this through the press. Since we live in the age of technology, we can't ignore the technological dimension of education, but because of the fundamental pedagogic aspect of education, we also set the basis for the asociality that we have experienced. One of the most important things that comes out of the FATH Project and the 4+4+4 system is the need for guidance counselors. More than 20,000 guidance counselors are available throughout Turkey. According to the National Ministry of Education 2010-2011, the number is 19,730. According to the study of the Education Reform Initiative, 1,204 students per teacher in the elementary schools in 2011 are 1,705 in İstanbul, 2,255 in Kars, 2,255 in Haqkari, 1,334 in Niğde, and 1,744 in Tekirdağ. We've just submitted a new research motion on this matter. According to a study conducted by the Lifetime Education Development Association, the number of students suspended from school in 2009-2010 for reasons such as discipline and continuation was 404.383. According to these data, about 50 percent of these students were involved in a crime. The study revealed that a significant number of children involved in the crime were having problems with school and family. That would explain the need for guidance counselors to be understandable. Experts stress that 200 students should be assigned 1 guidance counselor. I stress that the problems of this project must be discussed immediately, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0087par0309	Thank you, Mr. Birtane. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0088par0313	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, are available. We're talking about training, Your Highness is out.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0089par0314	We're here, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0090par0315	We're in, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0088par0316	I'm actually curious as to what these friends are going to be talking about.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0091par0317	Teacher, don't tell us, tell your own group. You've got five people in your group.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0088par0318	Now, under the name of Project FATHIH, I have made a commitment in favour of the motion by the Republican People's Party to open a general meeting regarding the problems of this project, which is the opening, research of opportunities, and the development of technology. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, nothing is regular in a country that is in trouble with human breeding, period. The FATHIH Project we're talking about is a project that has enormous cost. It's a project where a nation, a society, more specifically, is going to be used in your literature for taxing by strange gurus and poor poverty. And this project requires a very serious cost. These projects are really high-risk projects, and the possibility of failure is always at stake. According to preliminary assessments, there is an investment in the purchase of smart boards or tablets around 10 billion dollars, but it is among the calculations that are actually around 15-20 billion dollars. The use of scarce resources effectively and efficiently requires a natural reflection of the promise of integrity to the nation. When we look at the incident, Turkey has long been a graveyard of projects that have been started with excitement, but have never been able to do it, and are being put on the shelf because there is no chance to implement it. When you look at the applications of the Ministry of National Education, it's really a koy, lift it; try it, wrong; do it, break it. After that, there's not one, go back to the beginning. An approach like this is being put into action. If you approach a project like this with a national education classic strategy, the welfare of the people will be stolen by generations. Such a high cost project must be put into action in phases after scientific research and pilot applications. There is a clever strategy, such as that not all eggs have been laid in a basket since the ancient Spaniards. But it is foolish of us here to devote a very large amount of cost directly to this project, to put all the eggs in a basket. Dear lawmakers, the FATHIH Project is a project project that is trying to explain an unknown and another unknown. Because this project does not have short, medium and long-term goals. There is no openness to the online output of the envisioned tablets and the ability to connect from homes to the Internet. Whether 3G will be a feature or not is still a topic of discussion. It is also unknown whether any study has been conducted in the homes of the children of low-income families in order to ensure that they are connected to the Internet on high-band. The restrictions on the tablets will cause the device to become an ordinary consumption device. The tablets, however, will become a part of life. Tablets need to be planned in a type that allows multiple uses. In particular, it should be equipped to promote research and creativity. No one knows what this project is offering, and neither do the people who brought it up. As of today, we can't find any arrangement for 19,000 disabled students in primary school and 15,000 in secondary schools at the FATIH Project. The visible face of Project FATHIH is really the tip of an iceberg. Taking and distributing the equipment mentioned in the project is just a visible part of the iceberg, and it is not enough to understand and perceive the subject. Dear lawmakers, we're talking about a project involving his student, his teacher, his guardian, his manager, 35 million people. This project is a project with a technical and economic aspect, but also a sociological aspect. Such projects make a serious change of mentality necessary. Otherwise, you will face the threat of technology using technology. Today, from family problems to communication conflicts, we see a lot of problems actually arise as the phenomenon that technology produces. The mental developments are delayed, and social scientists call them cultural delays, and its definition is that spiritual elements are delayed to adapt to developments in the Maddi elements. That's really the way it is, and so, after a parallel between technology and mentality is established, only this kind of risk, this kind of investment, this kind of approach can be adopted. So I did it, I did it. I got the money, all right. I provided the technological equipment, and it was done. It would be wrong to consider it in the form of it. The simplest size of the FATHIH Project is part of the purchase and distribution of equipment. The project has much more complex dimensions, such as teaching teachers, detecting appropriate curriculum, and applying it to technology. ▪ Kervan is aligned on the road. If it is acted with logic, technological chaos will arise, and social alienation on the other hand. The FATHIH Project is both superficial and inadequate in the study of teachers, the right content, and the right scenarios, as well as the cost of high equipment is the focus of discussion. Dear lawmakers, see, the Ministry of National Education has opened a course in technology use in education as part of the FATHIH Project. It has been announced that the ministry will appoint and appoint guidance counselors to finish its 100-hour course to present teachers. However, there are thousands of young people from four years of IT technology at universities who have graduated 3,024 hours in four years and are waiting for an appointment. The ministry has introduced an extremely wrong method where it will assign these young people who are waiting for the appointment to attend these courses. As of 2012, the number of people waiting to be appointed as an IT teacher is 6,000. The National Ministry of Education needs 17,000 teachers in the context of the FATHIH Project, but the number of quotas reserved for teachers who have graduated from IT technology is 143. The ministry is clearly unfair to IT teachers. The Ministry of National Education has launched such a project in the past period under the name of Fast Education. The resources of the problems we face today are largely applied to this practice. It is necessary to give IT lessons to those who have not studied IT technology, and the ministry must immediately give up its error. In choosing tablets, more than one item should be selected with the same properties instead of the only option. In this process, it should be essential to encourage domestic and national production using every requirement. If in this project, a domestic and national company system is not being created and tendered, you have converted the National Education Commission into a tender commission, especially as we have expressed in the National Education Commission. The Public Contraction Act will not be subject to the Law. You put logic in order to negotiate in accordance with the needs of multinational companies. It will prove the truth that we call it. In this regard, such projects should be given to local companies. As a result, the FATIH Project is capable of determining the future of generations. Therefore, the cost and benefit of this project is essential. Our children are our future, the future belongs to all of us. It would be extremely helpful to open a general discussion on the FATIH Project. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0092par0333	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Avni Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0337	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican Group's group proposal for the situation in which the FATHIH Project is today and for the opening of a general discussion of the problems in the project. I salute you all. Dear MPs, at the beginning of my words, on the 560th anniversary of the conquest, which marks the end of an era and opens a new era, I remember Aksemsettin, the conqueror of the conquest, Aksemsettin of the spiritual architects of the conquest, and all the heroes of the conquest Hasan the Uğitan, and all the martyrs of the conquest. Dear lawmakers, the point that we have come to use IT technology in education today is very flattering to our country. In 2002, when the Prime Minister said that all schools will have IT classes, all of our schools will have Internet connections, all of our young will meet computers from Edirne to Kars. Most of our people didn't believe that because they hadn't actually met the computer yet because public institutions and institutions and managers hadn't actually met the computer. Yeah, at the Ministry of National Education, things weren't run by computer in 2002. At the time when I worked as a professor at the university, even when the professors had no proper computers in their rooms, not only did the opponents see it as a hard dream, but our friends did not believe it, but thank God, our Prime Minister's dreams came true in our country today. Yeah, today all our schools have computer classes, and we're out of I.T. classes. Yeah, we don't have any more online schools today, all of our schools have Internet connections. Yes, in all schools in the Ministry of National Education today, investment, appointment, transfer, examination application, examinations, all transactions have become computerized, and our Prime Minister's dreams have come true. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of National Education has reached a point today that can't be compared to 2002 in terms of e-government practices. Seeing this, our Prime Minister has revealed a new vision: this vision is 2023, 2053, 2071. In order to achieve these visions, 1453 souls and a conquerorian view that shapes that spirit began the FATIH Project.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0094par0341	What about the IT classes?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0342	Yes, the FATIH Project, the project to improve opportunities and improve technology, not to explore opportunities, is the project of the new age to prevent us from missing the age.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0094par0343	Congressman, what about the IT classes?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0344	I'll get to that. Dear MPs, what is the FATIH Project? With the FATHIH Project, technology will now be implemented in education, which will now be implemented in all classrooms, from the goal of the ministry's earlier purpose to create a class of technology in schools. With the FATHIH Project, each class will be placed on a computer-based, Internet-accessed smart board developed by our Ministry; a tablet computer will be distributed to our teachers and students in secondary schools and upper secondary schools. Thus, teachers and students will be able to gain access to information, compete with their peers around the world, as part of the project, all textbooks will be prepared as enriched e-books and presented to the service of education. My fellow lawmakers, in 2015, our Ministry is working with great sacrifice to ensure the completion of the FATIH Project. As of today, we have come to the FATIH Project: on 22 November 2010, as part of the project launched with protocol between our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, 85 thousand intelligent boards have been placed in all the classrooms of high schools, all but the upper secondary schools. 62,800 tablets were distributed to our students and teachers, 110 remote education centres established in our 81 provinces. The tender has been held for internal wiring in schools where 85,000 smartboards are established, and the tenders for purchase and production are the first phase. In this framework, the official newspaper, April 3, 2013, announced that the project was to be completed in 2015, with contracts for online wiring to 13,000 schools for the purchase of 10,600,000 tablet computers. My fellow lawmakers, and our friends have objections about Project Pardus. The Pardus Project began in 2003, especially with the appointment of the Prime Ministerate for TÜBITAK INFORMation on the need for national security and technological independence. The Pardus Project was supported by the Ministry of Development of 11 million Turkish liras from 2005 to 2012. This support continues in 2013 as 4 million Turkish liras.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0095par0351	So what? It's not a project, it's not a project. There's no such product.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0352	The 2013 version of Pardus was launched on 25 March 2013 by the president of TÜBİTAK and has been downloaded 80 thousand times so far and has begun institutional migration, some institutions have begun to pass to Pardus, the Ministry of General Staff, Social Security, the Ministry of Health, TÜRMOB, İSİ, the Ministry of Justice, yes, preparations have been made, some have been made.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0095par0353	It's not true, it's not true, it's not true.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0354	I would also like to inform you about the use of Pardus on interactive boards: the FATIH Project already includes the Pardus operating system on 85,000 smart boards. In the coming dates, some 550,000 smart boards are scheduled to run as a basic operating system.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0095par0355	You make it sound like you do, it's amazing!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0356	Dear friends, in the Ministry of National Education, 15 courses have been completed in different provinces, each going on for two weeks.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0096par0357	For example, can you give me an example of where it was opened? Can you give me Diyarbakir? Can you give me Hakkari? There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0358	More than 300 ▪ teachers have been trained in the basic level of Pardus. 43 teachers have been trained in advanced Pardus. My dear friends, our dear congressman, spoke of the sale of the country by our friend AK PARTY. Let's not forget, we never come together. We build the country, we build it, we run our country through the vision of 2023, 2053, 2071. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Hopefully, after the completion of this project, local production and integration will increase in IT technology.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0097par0362	Where's the local production? Where does this come from? You've made a move on America.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0363	Our esteemed MP says you've set up IT classes in our country, you've thrown them in the trash. Let's not forget, the computer is now a commodity. You threw it in the trash. A new generation grew up with the computer you call it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0097par0364	I.T. Classes are trash, garbage.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0365	A new generation, able to use the computer, able to access the Internet, has grown into a new generation of computer readers. I ask: Are you still using your computer in 2002?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0097par0367	That's the point!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0368	My dear friends, hopefully, with this project, Turkey will be an IT tech base, not an IT dump.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0097par0369	What happened to the IT classes? It's a dump, you still don't say it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0093par0370	With these feelings, I express my opposition to the group's proposal, with respect, with love, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0098par0374	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit02spe0099par0375	Okay. We'll take attendance. Mr. Dizacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Öğüm Öğün, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Şıray, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Topal, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Faron, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Yüpeer, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Değirmendereli. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0099par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 111st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough in the polls before the vote of the 19th Amendment. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 28/05/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President On the agenda's part, 214, 360, 371, 297, 173, 227, 406, 252, 10, 405, 126, 54, 432, 166, 419, 1888, 440, 267, 439, 183, 402, 449, 284, 268, 281, 283, 283 and 283 in order of the drafts, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 36, 37, 39, 41, 41, 41, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 58, 54, 54, 58, 58, 58, and 56, 56, and 56, 56, 56, and 47, 56, and 47, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 58, 58, 58, 58, 58, 58, 58, 58, 58, 58, 57, 57, 57, 57, 57, 57, 57, 55, 57, 57, 57, 57, 55, 55, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 55, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 55, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, and 38, 47, 47, 47, and 38, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, and 38, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, 47, and 38, 47, and 28, and 28, and 28, and 28, and 28, and 284, 47, and 284, and 28, 47, and 28, On Friday (May 31, 2013) the meeting is at 2:00 p.m. on Friday (May 31, 2013); the meeting of the agenda's special agenda and the meeting of the work from the Commission and other tasks from the Commissions; On Friday (May 31st 2013), the main issue of the Gensoru proposal (11/28) was to be held on Friday (May 31st 2013), and to discuss whether the Constitution should be taken into consideration under Article 99, 2013; 4, 11, 18 and 25 June 2013, Tuesday (June 2013) was the meeting of other audit issues, which were not discussed for an hour after the discussion of verbal questions, and the discussion of other jobs from the Commission and other jobs from the Commissions. On Wednesday (June 5, 12, 19 and 26, 2013), the unspoken questions were not discussed; Until Tuesday, May 28, 2013 (today) the meeting of the talks of business until the 297th legislature of the Law (today); Until Wednesday, May 29, 2013, when the talks were completed on the 358th legislature of the Legislature, Until Thursday, May 30, 2013, when the talks were completed until the bill of law, number 121, were merged; Until Friday, May 31st, 2013, when the talks were completed until Bill 380 of Law were merged; Until the meeting of Tuesday (June 4th 2013) was completed by the 324th Bill of Law; 5th and 6th June 2013 Wednesdays and Thursdays at 2:00 p.m.; Until Wednesday, June 5, 2013, when the talks of business were completed until Bill 51; Until the meeting of Thursday (June 6, 2013) of the 212th legislature, until the completion of the talks of the law bill; Until the day's schedule is completed at 24 p.m. in the following combinations, if the daily schedule cannot be completed. On Tuesdays, June 11, 18, and June 25, 2013, 3:00 to 2:00; 12th, 13, 19, 20th, 26th and 27th June 2013, Wednesday and Thursday, between 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m.; It's recommended. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the first word for it is Mr. Mustafa Elitas. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0100par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The main nature of our advisory board today is the continuation of our unfinished business from last week -- which, as you know, at the end of last week -- is that after negotiations on the general framework of the Petroleum Law, which is considered the fundamental law, the talks on chapter one today, and if there is one behind it, its proposals on the matter are discussed and voted on, and the bill is enforced. After that, it's a law that makes a difference in the SEC Law, which is the establishment of five new universities, foundation colleges, the changing of the name of one university, the meeting of an 8-point bill, along with the application and executive clauses. And two international agreements on the presence of the President of the Republic of Tunisia, which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has adopted here an hour ago or at the beginning of today's agenda, with the presence of the President of the Republic of Turkey -- one of which is the international agreement on the ratification of the Friendship and Co-operation Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Tunisia. Yesterday, as part of our weekly meeting with the political party group representatives, if you agree with this international contract... Mr. President is on his way here, and he's going to give a speech at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and before that, we have said today that it would be positive, if we vote on the international contracts as well, in order to strengthen the friendship between the two countries. They have expressed themselves to be principled. Hopefully, today, at a certain time, we'll be able to pull off the international contract. Also, dear friends, between the Republic of Turkey and Georgia, our agenda this week is until Thursday. On Friday, we will have completed the meeting of our fellow MPs from the Republican People's Party Group's proposal for the geneorization of Mr. Prime Minister due to presidential GAZ. I hope, in this framework, that we, today, tomorrow and Thursday, wish to complete the Oil Law Bill, confirm three international contracts, and adopt the law on the establishment of five foundation universities in the Law and the changing the name of one university, and go on Friday only to discuss the gene questions and vote on our provinces. But we don't know which way the wind is blowing, whether it's slow or slow or fast in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, because it's different during the day, whether it's going to have a tsunami effect or not. In this process, if we look at it, we clearly wish to finish the issue of these three international contracts and the RDR Law and also the Oil Law this week, together with its geneor. If it doesn't end in any way during this time, we'd like to continue to discuss these laws after the gene, but I'm guessing, in terms of the principled talks with our political party groups, we'll be done with these billings on Thursday, and we'll be done with this week's work, as well as just the general discussion on Friday. See, valued lawmakers, it's half past six, the AK PARTY group proposal is being discussed. The General Assembly began at three o'clock. It's been three and a half hours, and we're still not on the agenda. Now, there are three speakers after me, and that's half an hour, seven hours in total. Let's put half an hour off the agenda, and in three and a half hours we're trying to get on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0101par0053	Don't you want the opposition to talk, Mayor?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0100par0054	Let the opposition speak. Let the opposition speak. Why would he talk? Let the opposition speak to his motions. Let the opposition speak on the part of the law. Let the opposition come to the question-answer system and ask the minister the crucial questions about the matter, so that the public can know about it as well as the lawmakers can know enough about it. If there's a mistake, let's find ways to withdraw any arrangement that might be against this nation with questions, negotiations, opposition contributions. It turns out that no one is raising their hand to any of the changes proposed by the ruling party -- except for our agreements, except for the exceptions -- no one is raising their hand; party taassubu, party discipline -- you agree with the proposals that we think may be reasonable -- we talk to the opposition parties, and we say, "This motion can be accepted." We say, "This motion can be accepted." A parliamentary friend who comes here, who defends the issue of the motion, who sells the country, you screw up, you screw up the country, you know, you do this thing, you agree with the opposition party, you say, and you agree with the deputy, and we say, let's agree with the group, but let's agree that it's not be accepted." Look, dear friends, what are we talking about with these group suggestions? We speak according to the 19th Amendment. The 19th article of the Civil Code states that in all cases committed to the identification, proposal or opinion of the Council of Counsellors, the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on the first call, if they cannot consolidate their proposals, they can submit their requests to the General Assembly separately, as well as to the Parliament Speaker or political party groups. In this case, the voting of the request is on the agenda of the first union's presidential presentations and the General Assembly decides by sign. During that time, no one said I wanted to talk about it. As a result of a wrong tradition of the Civil Charter, which has been implemented for years, we are voting on Article 63, where we should be voting on the basis of the last sentence of the 19th Amendment, and we are voting on a ten-minute vote. What? It's a formal debate. In Article 63, the expression in Article 63 is this: matters of procedure, such as moving forward or leaving behind a subject, are discussed before any other work. • Mr. President, you are not obliged to give ten minutes about it. You don't have to give speeches to all four people because you've made it a tradition for three minutes in the procedural debate. The legal debates are held according to Article 63. You've made it a tradition. In my opinion, group proposals should be decided only after the 19th article has been read, while we are doing the procedure according to Article 63. It says the most... the most two-sided, two-against-four- lawmakers are promised not to go past ten minutes, most likely in a favour. So today, when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is doing its procedural debates in the 22nd term, when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey gives it five minutes to respond to bullying, it must say that the Parliamentary Court, the Parliament Speakers, must agree on three minutes of procedural debate, and no political party group can say no to that, and there are promises that sometimes a minute, sometimes two minutes of tradition, sometimes to change the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, or to make it a subject of abuse here, because there is a group proposal coming every day. There's no telling what it is. We don't know. The opposition is criticizing us. We don't know what we're going to talk about this week. At that moment, we tell our fellow MPs to prepare themselves. You're the subject of education, get ready for it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear lawmakers, Mr. Chairman's Court, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, hoping that you will also place a strong will in the part about the procedure debate, which you have demonstrated for the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0102par0060	Ten minutes wasn't enough for him, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0103par0061	The first word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal is from Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0104par0064	So we're going to see what that group proposal has to do with the painting!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0103par0065	We'll see, we'll see. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0105par0067	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the Justice and Development Party's proposal. I salute you all. Dear friends, on Friday I went to Kars. I've been to Kars, Ardahan, Erzurum, and I've seen a terrible disaster, and I'll show you pictures. There's a disaster, there's a flood, people are miserable. I mean, there's a situation where, on the one hand, countless, suddenly animals are dying, and they want to throw them into the well, and they want to close them up with dirt, while the animals that stay out in the open smell like carcasses, horrible pollution, horrible disease. Now, dear friends, I'll take turns showing you here. That's animal carcasses in Durançam village of Lakee. The animals are dead and thrown out, by the water, horrible, stinking. You're the MP, please, I'm asking you, let's get a delegation in here and see.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0106par0070	Show it this way, show it this way.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0105par0071	Yeah, you should see it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0107par0072	These need to be buried.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0105par0073	Now, the animals are dying, tying them to the back of the tractor, dragging them into the pit. It stinks. Look, I'm telling you. Here's another dead animal... Why am I standing over you, especially when I'm standing over you? You know very well who has slandered him, he will say: 'I want you all to pay attention to this part of the tragedy.' Let these disastrous friends take a picture, and let the press take a shot - in Durançam village of Lakene, and Mr. Orhan Atalay also knows this - 300 cattle have died, and about 400 digits, and the calf, and the calf, died. 700 animal friends. This picture was taken two days ago on Saturday, my friends. Dear friends, look, they're filling the pit with animals. They're alive. They're alive. Animals die of despair. Now, what would the world do if three MPs died here? He'll stand up, won't he? So, you guys know how many animals died? Look, I'll only tell you who died in Kars, Ardahan, Igdir, Pain and Erzurum. There are around 350 villages in Kars. If 10 animals die in each village, it makes 3500 animals. There are 237 villages in Ardahan. If 10 animals die in every village -- there's more, I'll tell you, I'm missing -- 2,370 animals. There are about 200 villages in Iğdır. If you multiply it by 10, it makes 2,000 animals. There are 680 villages in the pain. When you hit it with 10, 6,800 animals died. There are 1,180 villages in Erzurum. 11,800 animals died. A total of 26,600. Ma'am, you may laugh because you're not dealing with the animal, but come see the way the animal died there, you'll get goosebumps. I went to the village of the Prime Fathers of Kars. Believe me, I swear -- I will show you the camera recording, and then I will hold a press conference -- when the animal was dying, and when he was dying, I saw it drooling, and my conscience ached. The Grand National Assembly, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Prime Minister, the President, I invite you all on duty. Do you know why these animals are dying? That's because the smack drug didn't go on time. Why didn't the smack drug go away, brother? The Minister of Agriculture is missing, the Minister of Agriculture is doing other things, he doesn't care. There's no medicine after I've been there....... Why? Let's send you some money. Now I've just talked to Ardahan, the county managers of Kars. They've sent money. They're going to tender money. They're going to take a pin out of the private sector. They're going to take it away. They're going to inject his animal. They're going to save the animal. Brother, look, the vet doctor, the professor is here, Yunus Kılıç, he knows well that Ramadan Kerim Özkan is also here, these friends are vets. The medicine doesn't profit after the animal gets sick. You need to give this a shot first, you need to give it a shot three months ago. Believe me, I swear, guys, I say 26,400, but maybe about 100,000 animals died in these five counties, look.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0108par0084	There are no animals left, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0105par0085	Yes, we're out of animals, so good to see you! That's what the Department of Agriculture was saying, no animals, no agriculture. Let's go to the European Union. Let's import animals from France, import wheat from France, and import barley from France. I'll get a knight's medal, and that's it. I'll be elected Minister of the Year. That's the trouble with the Minister of Agriculture. Now, dear friends, look, I'm speaking concretely. I just got off the phone with the mayor. Over 300 dead animals. Right now we have a ladle, we can't get it to dig a well. We'll bury the animals. Otherwise, he's spreading disease. He said. I've been to the village of the Prime Ministers, and there are nine potholes, my friends. There are 60 animals in each hole, 70 animals. I went to the village of Akchakale of Kars. I went to Karakale village. I went to Beyköy. And people are watching me now. I don't blame my friends, thank you. They've already made an effort, and now the vaccine's gone, but the vaccine's been delayed, it hasn't grown, my friends. A tragedy has come, and believe me now, I swear, I am ashamed of my parliamentary position. I'm asking you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Speaker, to identify a delegation. I've looked at all these dead animals, they've got ear earrings, they're all registered. Let a delegation go, identify these dead animals, and let the government pay for the loss of these people. Before these people say summer and winter... the village of the Archipelago on the border with Armenia, I'm telling you exactly, they tell me we're on the border with Armenia, there's no Turkey anymore. On the border of Armenia, we await the land, the flag. There are no vets coming in here, no vaccines coming in, no government coming in, no government brother. I'm telling you, it's the village of the Prime Minister. Guys, I got goose bumps about something like this. I beg of you, I invite the Minister of Environment on duty. Erdogan Bayraktar, Mr. Minister, you are sensitive, I beg you, send a delegation immediately. It's awful, it stinks all over the place. Minister of Health, I'm asking you to send in your team so people don't get sick. Look, I've got teachers here, and I've got brusella disease, and I've also got it out of chap disease. Brusella's disease, friends, it kills you, it kills you. Once again, Brusella's disease is killing you. I call upon the government and the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture to make sure people don't get the brusella disease. Send delegations, get up, go yourself, brother, what are you doing here? There's no point lying around. I'm asking you, come. Look, I give you the village address, I give you the village address: Go to Karakale village of Selim, go to Akchakale village, go to Beyköy, go to Gedikler village of Akyaka district of Kars, go to the village of Ardahan, Durançam in Lake, go to the village of Durançam, go to the village of Külşenlik of Madın, go to the village of Ardahan central Taşdeğren. I mean, there's a situation... In Ardahan, for example, we have a region called a Hochvan, 21 square villages, terrible... all animals stink. I mean, do you know how? The animal is dead, left, eating flies. And let me tell you something else: believe me, honestly, the dogs don't eat the flesh of that dying animal. Look, they say: "If dogs eat, we will be saved. " Because the animal is poisoned, the animal understands, so the dog does not eat, nor does the wolf eat. For that, Mr. President, I beg of you, look, in the village of Durançam, in the lake, the list came to me, and they have phones -- it's obvious who died, how many of their animals. At the last minute, I'll tell you this: A friend of ours took out a loan from the bank in the Bridge village of Lake. This friend says, "Give me my name." He says, "I'll give you his name now, because he's petitioned, and nothing's happened yet." This is our friend, Tuncel Özdağ. It is in the village of Bridgel, in the lake. 14 of his animals are dead. I went yesterday, six of my animals are sick, and they're going to die. I got a loan from the bank, my animals died. Now, how am I going to pay this loan? My stove's out. It says. Friends, now, the solution to this is that the state of the Republic of Turkey is the great state. Let the damage be determined immediately, and the loss of the citizens will be paid. Let the ministers go immediately, and a delegation to pay for this loss, please report immediately to Kars. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0109par0098	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. In favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, the final statement belongs to Mr. Sırrı Sakık.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0110par0101	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yeah, well, we as the BDP Group don't run from work, so let's work, but fair. Let's figure out the fundamental problems of our country together, if there are laws about these things, whether they're by law or by law, let's act together. Elitaş just spoke here, talking about compromise, working together. Compromise, bring only what you have done to the opposition, come, support it... lt's not a compromise, it's not that. In the past, certain political focal points were said to you, "Come, compromise." When they said, "They were taking the army behind them, they were sleeping in the trench with the Panzer," they said, "Come, compromise." Now that you're doing the same tactic, you're ruling the opposition out. The opposition has problems, the country has basic problems. So it's because our friend who was just speaking here, Kars, Ardahan, saw these cries about the region, which is why he's inviting the House to take office. Let's work together, that's the compromise. Now, we have our basic problems. We're going through a serious process. We always say that the laws that fit the spirit of this process should be made, but somehow this bag law comes and goes, in this bag law... yes, the country has certain problems, but nothing has ever happened to set us free, to solve our problems. On that occasion, let's work, but together we need the laws to free this country. It's a bleeding wound for us. Every day you watch headlines and read about the problems in prisons. How can you put up with your conscience, how can you put up with it? Kurdish children are being harassed in prison, Antalya, İzmir, and attacked; that's where the children are. In many prisons, we all watch the persecution of our friends in prison, and we invite the government to take responsibility for this, so our friends in prison have been in prison for twenty-five years, they've been in prison for twenty-five years, they've been in prison for twenty-five years, but they haven't taken a single step. Some of the principals in the prisons, some of the guards of the execution, are acting the same way as they were in Diyarbakır Prison on September 12th, they are the product of a certain ideology, and they are relentlessly attacking political prisoners in prison, and they are in many prisons, talking with the authorities, our most sensitive point. We're in favor of a human solution, but if it doesn't work out this way, we'll lock it down. I mean, there's still laws going around in our lives, and these laws go through here, but they get stuck somewhere. The law passed here, what happened? Patients, inmates, and inmates would have gone to the Medical Examiner's Office to spend their last days with their parents, but so far, there's not a single person who's been released, who's gone to his family. What happened? Is the Coroner's Office out of your control, or does the Forensics Bureau decide that it's out of your hands? So something's wrong in this country. Look, my dear friends, the patients who are being treated at Numune Hospital, I assure you, water doesn't even go in there without approval from Sincan Prison, the same way. The conditions they're in, the isolation rooms inside the prison, the cells, whatever, the patient rooms in the sample are at the same point. You're talking about justice, law, brotherhood, and we, the arrested are the virtues of this country, and we look after them like our virtues. These people are sick, these people are in prison, what in God's name are you doing about them? So if a Minister can't control his directors, his execution guard, I swear, that's where the word ends, and these laws need to change, we can't build our peace with these laws. So, we're talking about a continuous process, and the opposition party turns to you and asks you, and says, "Are the two opposition parties: are things in order?" And you turn around in fear, according to the law. This, my brother, is the law of rejection and denial that drives us to death. How will we make peace with you as long as this is in effect? Is there a problem with these laws? What happened when you complained about the state security courts of the past from Europe? You've taken off the uniforms, you're holding special jurisdictional courts there. What are the special jurisdictional courts doing? He gives 37 years to the young children of Aydağ, who protest the massacres in Roboski, thirty-seven years. These students were in our group today. A group of students have arrived, and they are only sentenced to six and a half years at the university for reacting only to what happened in the Kurdish province. These courts, private court officials, make sure the state security courts are building stones. Now, how can we make peace with that understanding? This current law, this existing Constitution, doesn't solve our problems. So, if everything goes according to the law, if everything goes according to the law, after a few months, you'll turn around and start looking for your own error at the point where you've done wrong. It's a very fashionable expression lately, so we should all know that yesterday's sun and today's laundry are not dry. These basic problems, I'm telling you in the name of God, are not solved by the existing laws, it's not solved by understanding. If we can look at our laws in accordance with the law... if we can look at our people in there as citizens and brothers, if we can enforce that law, if the people who are in prison are facing that harsh punishment... they will have mutual trust. I've known hundreds of people in prison for 25 years, in the name of the PKK, convicted by state security courts, condemned only by the name of the bloodline. You've been wronged, too. So, how did you sit here in the third judicial package, in one night, without any of us knowing about it, and you talked to the opposition party, and you freed those who slaughtered seven TIP people, and seven times in a row the execution sites? Now, come, the day is the day to change these laws. No justice, no peace. It's because there's no justice, which is a fight. We invite you on a mission to build justice and peace. We invite you to be sensitive about these laws as we discuss them. We're asking the Justice Department, the authorities, to immediately form commissions and go to these prisons. Look, in Antalya Prison, Izwar, in many prisons, this attack on children, if we watch this harassment together -- as I said in the beginning -- with what conscience can you look your children in the eye? So this country doesn't deserve it, we don't deserve it. On that occasion, we invite everyone to be sensitive about it. If you turn your back on the fact that the children of those who are in there are only children of one generation, we can't establish the brotherhood law here. Of course, for a long time, really, we've always said that in Parliament about these NEP prisoners in particular, about 10,000 prisoners, but other than that, thousands of people who have been tried by the original PKK are in prison over 25 years, and these people need to be freed as soon as possible. Now, is there going to be a new fifth judicial package, or is there going to be a new legal arrangement with dialogue, negotiations, by creating a much different commission, and these people need to be liberated as soon as possible. ACK prisoners need to be liberated as soon as possible, including in the spirit of peace. However, if we can provide them, we can follow this course and strengthen our peace even further. We need this, we shouldn't be afraid at this point, there's no use in fear because we know how serious problems happen in our country. When we talk about the Reyhan incident here again today, we can actually give you dozens of examples like that, and in order for that not to happen, these laws need to change immediately. Thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0111par0115	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. The final word against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is Mr. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin... Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0112par0119	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We do routine work at the beginning of each week, and unfortunately, it's become a reality, and I don't know if we should put it in the Civil Code. It's been a long time since the Council of Counsellors agreed to bring an agenda here, and unfortunately, we always come up with group recommendations. But I always say that's not true, that's not right. There are no boards, no institutions in the world, so that he spends this much time every week trying to figure out his own agenda, and we don't have the right to do that, and I'm telling you that very clearly. This Parliament, this General Assembly, has to spend a shift building a solution to the problems of our people, building law, meeting expectations, so it is the duty of this Assembly to step up the legislation, but also to maintain a balanced control. A ruling group that left control to the opposition will provide the opposition's support for the acceleration of legislation, but if you don't give control, if you ignore control, control rights, Mr. Elitaş isn't quite right, so it's possible to study, in commissions or in the General Assembly, we'll find one in a thousand motions of opposition parties, or we won't find one in a thousand. But we have to get over it, we can't solve it with stubbornness, dear friends. Therefore, there must be a way for us to make this House work by conciliating, by creating a common mind. But, again, we're not supposed to talk about it, we're responsible for doing it, we have to, but the ruling group has to get in the way of it. I'm not saying this to accuse my fellow members of the group, but you have to admit that you are in power, you are in charge of running this country, that's your duty. You have to ensure reconciliation, you have to insist to ensure reconciliation, so if you can't get results by criticizing it, you have to try another way. Now, these meetings take four hours. In four hours, we can establish a lot of laws, and we can solve a lot of problems, but at the point of providing this -- I regret to say -- in the open moments to my people -- I say to my people, the management of the ruling group is unfortunately not in search, not in a desire, not in a decision, and there's no insistence on that. I'm afraid we're wasting everyone's time. Dear friends, look, this group is critical of your suggestions, Mr. Elitaş, but if this group hadn't suggested, how would we have talked about the problem Mr. Ensar Öğümüt. Dear friends, you can bring up an agenda based on your own priorities as a power, and you'll accept it, but how are we going to talk about the public's agenda? What must be done in Kars, in Ardahan, in Iğdır, in the east, in Erzurum, in the pursuit of these animal deaths? At this point, what opportunity would we take to get the government's attention? That's the main point of opposition parties' group proposals -- to bring people's agenda here. You're talking about the Oil Act. There must be a total benefit, a necessity, but what good is it to the nation? I mean, what good is the Oil Act going to be to our dead citizen in Kars? So the group proposals are really the possibility of being able to control for the nation in the hands of opposition parties, and that's how you view the issue, but there's no way you can defend this way of working. There are no institutions, no organizations, so he can argue so much to determine his own agenda. Dear friends, despite all our conversations, I'm afraid we haven't gotten far, so we're going to have to do a special study. Now, the ruling party has brought an agenda with the signature of Mr. Mustafa Elitas. There's no way to understand that, Mr. Elitaş, you're moving up 28 laws. Next week, with another motion, you're going to draw up other laws, so the order of that red book is constantly changing. What's the point, what's the use, what's the use, what's the use of taking 36, 37, 38, 39? So, to do a job, I have a suggestion for you. I believe your fellow voters don't understand what this says, what law is taken up, which is when you bring in this motion, your fellow lawmakers don't understand, because you raise your hand. And we don't understand, so I'm working long enough to understand, so God willing, you said, "This week we're going to work on the Oil Act, the change in the RD Act, and three international contracts. This is a line, one sentence, so if you'd said, "This week we'd like to discuss five universities in the Law of Oil and three international contracts." Here, full of pages like this... and you're planning for the end of June, and we can't figure it out. The AKP Group, which cannot plan next week, cannot predict, is also planning June. I know you're gonna bring one next week, you're gonna change it again. There's no reason to mock the mind of society, the mind of this General Assembly. I propose again: you can achieve a much better working pace by agreeing with opposition parties, you can be much more useful, you'll be doing a much better job than I do. Dear friends, I also have a matter of some unfinished business to make. There is no Minister of the Forest, I have something to say about him. Look, there's no need to talk too much about this Reyhan thing. It's our pain, it's our national pain. Our people have lost their lives, an attack on the sovereignty of our country and our state. We condemn the attackers with violence, hatred. We have pain, we share pain. But here's the thing we're critical of: you're blaming the opposition for inviting us to stick around and get together. What were we supposed to do? We say we won't forget this pain, we say we won't because it's important. If we forget this incident, we'll face even greater disasters. On 11 February 2013, if we could talk about the vehicle that exploded at the Cilve-Eye Border Gate, if we could share that pain and form a common reaction to it, maybe we wouldn't have faced the incident on May 11th, we wouldn't have faced the incident in Reyhanlı. The sharing of pain, the opportunity to provide unity around suffering, is the way of reason, and it is the responsibility of power. That's what we judge. To get your attention at this point, we brought this group proposal today. But unfortunately, you have a stubbornness that we can't get over, and we have an opinion that you don't want to run the House. If you want to run it, there are different ways to do it, and it has to be tried. These are things that we can't get over, that we can't get any distance from, even though we've talked about each time. May I present your attention. He'll pay his respects, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0113par0131	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand and demand that my proposal for amendments to Congressman Number 2/1413's Selection Act be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. The bidder is Mr. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu of Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0143	Mr. President, I have raised my proposal at the point of the reduction of the 10 per cent election dam in Article 33 of the Parliamentary Elections Act to 3 per cent of the voter dam in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear friends, this bill, as you all know, is the product of the fascist coup on September 12th. The MP Selection Act, which took effect in 1983, has been in effect for some 30 years. I don't feel it's right to make a detailed assessment of this matter. Because the research centre, which you can easily access, has a very important report on the April 2011 election dam. In this report, examples of the election dam in terms of Turkey, in terms of world examples, are very well listed, this is good research, you can read this. Secondly, the April 2010 IDE research centre, the Venice Commission, has a report on Turkey and election dams, where you can read them. I'll tell you this: the final percentage of the European Council's Parliamentary Commission on election dams is 3%. ▪ That is the expression he used to refer to existing democracies. Now, our rate is 10 percent. If you claim that Turkey's democracy is not a built-in democracy, that's fine, but if we have a will to evolve our democracy into a established democracy, we'll put it on the agenda here today, we'll discuss it. We offered 3%, or if you really think there's a problem with stability in management and justice in representation, it's not 3%, it's 4 percent, it's 5 percent, but we'll talk about it here today. If you speak, then we believe that you, lawmakers, have a faith in democracy, in justice, in peace, regardless of their own parties. Dear friends, why are we saying this? We don't have to trust the Prime Minister about this process that's going on. We don't trust the Prime Minister, let's be clear, we don't trust the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0115par0147	It's like the Prime Minister needs your trust.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0148	We don't trust the Prime Minister. We didn't trust him in 2009, and we didn't trust him in Oslo.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0116par0149	You never trusted me. You never trusted me.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0150	Look, you're trying to run politics through Kurds and through peace literature in Turkey and through trust in the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0117par0151	The public trusts it, the people. He voted for this party because the public trusted him, and you don't trust him... keep your trust to yourself.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0152	We can only guarantee peace through democracy. So, look, we've explained 19 articles written here, 19 articles.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0118par0153	Mr. Sezgin, do you believe him?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0154	The first one is the 10% election dam, and the first one is the 10% election dam. That's why we brought it up today. If you really want to build a real peace in Turkey, this is the place, Parliament, this is the bench, and this is the General Assembly. You come, we talk about everything here, we do everything. What are you doing with a 10% election dam?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0119par0155	You pull him back, too.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0156	In 1995, in 1999, in 2003, was the pluralist dream of Turkey reflected here? It didn't.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0119par0157	You can't keep your word, you can pull him back.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0120par0158	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0159	If you're in favor of true peace...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0121par0160	Don't doubt it, don't doubt it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0161	...you come, you support the Republican People's Party's proposals for true democracy, true justice and true freedom, and you demonstrate your position on the election dam that will be voted here shortly.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0122par0162	You can't keep your word.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0114par0163	You can't talk like that here, you can't talk like that. I invite you to democracy. There will be a test here in a moment, and we will show your hands in Diyarbakir, Hakkari, Vanda, Edirne, Tripoli, everywhere, in a little while. So, if you want to serve your conscience, democracy, and freedom, you'll have it on the agenda in a moment, and we'll all come together and we'll talk here, we'll talk here. This is the first one.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0123par0165	Thank you, Godkulu.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0124par0166	We're on the side of true conscience.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0125par0167	What conscience, what democracy?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0126par0168	What conscience?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0127par0170	Well, look, what conscience, what conscience? Intuitive God-like conscience. I come from the streets of Diyarbakır, from the streets of Hakkari, okay? I was there when you walked around Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0126par0172	You'll get through it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0128par0173	Dear God, thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0126par0174	You can't keep your word.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0129par0175	It's democracy, Dersim!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0130par0176	All our citizens are waiting for freedom and democracy on Saturday at 4 p.m. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0131par0179	Now that you're making small talk, the lawmakers, Mr. Mehmet Simsek is waiting, he's gone at least five minutes. Yes, Mr. Tanju Özcan of Bolu, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0132par0182	Mr. President, I have received a pledge by our Republican People's Party MPs to support the proposal for the amendment to the Parliamentary Election Law. Friends, the essence of this law, as our orator friend just stated, is the reduction of the 10 per cent electoral dam in Turkey to 3 per cent. Guys, why did we offer this law? So that justice can be served in the representation; indeed, the will of the people can reflect on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as the people wish. Friends, as a matter of fact, I am one of the lawmakers in favor of no dams being applied.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0133par0186	CHP's only gonna get in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0132par0187	That's what I think. Friends, the mentality you partially represent has had to go through a lot of different searches because of this dam. And while you're at it, please remember these, so throw that out. Today, the fact that the AKP has voted for you with a high degree of votes, that some of the people, although they did not think so, voted for you in the best sense of evil.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0134par0190	So you're worse.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0135par0191	Are you worse?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0132par0192	...the mentality that you represent in the past should not forget the fact that it has been removed from Parliament over and over again because of this dam. Guys, with this bill, we've asked that the dam be reduced to 3 percent. It's currently being implemented, you know, 10%. Ten percent, guys, that's about 4.5 million votes. In the 2002 elections, this Parliament, Turkey, experienced this. We were in Parliament as AKP and CHP Group and represented about 53 per cent of the population. So this is the opposite of saying: 47 percent of the Turkish people's will is not reflected in the Parliament. Of course, the rate is a little higher this semester, but that doesn't mean it's going to happen as long as there are 10 percent more dams left. Friends, even a 3-percent dam doesn't represent a little vote to me, so it's about 1.5 million votes. If you are saying that it is wrong to reduce this dam to less than 10 per cent, you must give the reason for it. Remember, the Right Path Party received close to 10 per cent of the vote in the 2002 elections, but that party was not represented in Parliament. Again, in the 2002 elections, the National Movement Party had received close to 10 per cent of the vote, but they were not represented. Now, do you know what happens in this existing system? People cannot, unfortunately, vote for the political party in their mind or in accordance with its principles, because of the 10 per cent dam, and in that sense, as I have just said, the better of the evil, the better of the evil, or the better of my vote. There are only tiny similarities to a will that they do not believe in. Friends, I'd like to remind the MPs of the ruling party who claimed to have brought democracy to Turkey. Here are some examples of the dam system in some countries from the European Union, where we say we're taking a role model, where we're trying to join it. There are no dams in some countries in Europe, just as I feel like it. However, Bosnia and Herzegovina is absent; Bulgaria has 4 per cent, 5 per cent in the Czech Republic; 5 per cent in Estonia -- those are higher -- 0.67 per cent in the Netherlands; Ireland is absent; Switzerland has none; Latvia has 5 per cent in the Czech Republic. There are no dams in many European countries. In that sense, we say, at least 3 percent of the people can have more representatives in Parliament, more political parties can have representatives here. Again, friends, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that there are local elections next year. There's also a dam in local elections in the provinces. You know, the political party representative, who gets less than 10 per cent of the vote, can't win and can't get the city council to vote. So because there are bilateral competitions in many places, we prevent candidates outside of these two parties or from even putting members in municipal councils except for the parties represented by the two candidates. And as a matter of fact, I think it's best to make a legal arrangement if it's possible before the local elections. Like I just said... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we made this proposal with the idea of justice in the representation of the law. We're waiting for your support.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0136par0201	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0137par0205	Mr. President, thank you very much. This bill is a very unfair, unlawful practice brought by earlier, the architect of September 12th, the Kenan Universe and its friends. There's no precedent in the world. I mean, after so many years, how do the political authorities still digest politics by taking refuge in the back of this Law? And there are no 10 percent dams in the world. Now, if this Law is so unfair, if we're going through the days when the democratic ground will be able to live, and if we're going to give everyone the right to life in this regard, it's a historic opportunity. Today, for example, it would be a win, not a loss, to accept this law and take steps on it. On the one hand, attempting to change the Constitution of September 12th, but on the other hand, it is not fair to take refuge in the Political Parties Act, the Election Law, and the 10 per cent dam that the generals of September 12th brought in. I invite everyone to be conscientious about it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0138par0209	The motion...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0139par0212	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0138par0213	He's got a roll call, yeah. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Susam, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Bay Bayututan, Mr. Tanurkulu, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Değirmerdereli, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Securityturk, Mr. Coach, Mr. Tayan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. (x) Verbal question motions are not read in the General Assembly and are added to the report. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have stated in the section of the hearings, I would like to call Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek to the stand to answer the oral questions he wants to answer together. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Now, you have one hour. We don't read questions - agreed groups. So if you use it in time, we'll do it in an hour by asking you questions. Okay? Yes, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0140par0298	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I stand before you to respond to verbal question motions. I salute you all with respect and love. I'll start with Mr. Ensar Öğümün to ask our Home Secretary (6/87) a number of questions. According to our current legislation, sales are irregular and cannot be legalized, and it is not appropriate. The main question of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1348) is: The current regulations say that because a malfunctioning device cannot be repaired, the new one will be bought into imports. As of this moment, we have no further study of the return of the pre-received OTV (UTV) from the fail-safe device. The two questions of Mr. Ensar Ögüt... (6/1401) are the main question of our ministry's country service: it is being tried to repair the staff needs of its staff to the extent of its resources. (6/1403) The main question is: In 2003-2012, 108 dwellings were sold at a total price of $24.9 million. Mr. Ali Halaman (6/1447), (6/3353), Mr. Mehmet Erdogan (6/1915), Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/2220) and Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2367) and Mr. Cemalettin Şeker (6/3026) are the main questions motions of the question (6/3026). The price of sales of 2/B subsidiaries is paid at expiration rates. Within the framework of Laws 2886 and 4706, it has been determined to be investigated by institutions or experts such as municipal, trade and industrial chambers, and that its position is taken into account by taking into account the measurement values, Internet research, development and use conditions, efficiency and infrastructure. In appreciation, the control phase is complete. The charges have been opened to the applicants from the Internet. The notices have been made to begin the purchases. The application is not subject to a commitment or application fee. There is no regulation for the free age of agricultural land, and it has been given the opportunity to sell to rights owners of Law 6292. It has been envisioned that the sale price for places that are completely and unique, for agricultural purposes, and for permanent housing purposes, will be estimated as 50 per cent of the cost for non-building. In advance sales, there is also a 20% discount. In accordance with Law 6444, the installments are extended. As of June 2012, in our cities of 2/B, there were around 70,000 direct purchases and extradition applications. As of today, the number of applications is around 611,000 in 57 counties. I can't explain the application distribution of 57 provinces here for a while, but if they want, I can give Mr. Dedeoğlu all the details. The sale of 2/B fields is expected for $9.8 billion. The number of 2/B dwellings in Adana province is 11.943, totalling 5,710 hectares. Its total area is 46 hectares, located at 2,121 square feet. Mr. Kamer Young (6/1454) is the main question motion: $11.8m was collected from the $13.7m share of Turkish Maritime Enterprises as part of the business rights agreements from the time the ports were privatised to 30 April 2013. The legal procedures for the remaining share have been initiated, the cases are in trouble. The privatisation of Tekirdağ Port was annulled by March 12, 2012, and by the Supreme Council of Privatisation 2012/34, and the following day was officially taken over. The topic is based on the management and control of port businesses in Article 7 of the right-of-occupancy agreement. According to this, as a member of the governing boards, 1 member of the staff and audit boards from TDI will be taken from the governorate staff concerned with the ports. It's hard for me to count the names of all these members right now, but of course I can offer them to the congressman who wants them. There is no case of failure to perform the duties of a Privatisation Administration head. The Black Sea has been transferred to the General Directorate of the Highways at a price of $1.7m worth of publicisation, which is 14.562.69 square metres, including a 424 square metre building found in Giresun port area as part of the construction of the Black Sea coast road. Under the right-of-business agreement, the TDI is not subject to a fee on the price of publicisation. It's not possible for me to read the membership information and dividends here one by one because of the time, but I can give them to our friends who want them back in writing. The main question of Mr. Alim Light (6/1721) is: The fee imbalance between employees employed in the same service class or in similar titles has been eliminated, equal to the same salary policy as the Law Code 666. In this framework, the difference between financial rights and the same amount of additional payment of lawyers in different administrations has been terminated. Our lawyers are also paid for their power of attorney. There is no study on our agenda. Mr. Alim Izwar (6/1723), the main motions of Mr. Mahmut Tanal (6/2542): Standard&Poor. His assessment of Turkey last year in May did not accurately reflect the appearance of our country. Since May 2012, both the SNP and four separate international credit rating agencies have raised Turkey's credit rating. Fitch upgraded Turkey's credit rating to an investmentable level in November 2012. Fitch then raised our country's credit rating to an investment level, as well as Moodys, Japan Credit Rating Agency and Dominion Bond Rating Service. Thus, Turkey has become a country with a credit rating that can be invested by four international credit rating agencies. This development will significantly affect our economy, therefore our citizens, it will speed up long-term investment inputs into our country, reduce the fluctuation in capital inputs; it will increase the cost of our treasures and companies' access to international financing, reduce the cost of debt, and contribute to our country's long-term growth. All of this will support the increase in employment, support the development of our country and the increase in social welfare. The key element behind the credit rating increase was political stability during our governments, structural reforms carried out by cautious macroeconomic policies. It's not realistic to expect taxes to be reset because of the increase in credit rating. Because with or without an investment-level credit rating, each country is on its way to taxation to finance public spending. Mr. Ali Öz (6/1737) is the main question motion: studies on the autonomy rights of Turkish Armed Forces personnel are conducted as a whole without looking at personnel. In this scope, the higher levels of risk level of deprivation, such as explosive material destruction, have been increased in the last year's pay grade to the staff who were trained to encourage professional development, according to their precedents. In addition, additional compensation has been arranged for military personnel who fight terrorism widely and intensively, on the basis of criteria such as the risk and difficulty of the mission. It is technically impossible to give information about the number of staff members who benefit from such payments without the title of staff. In other regulations, there has been an increase in compensation for personnel with such qualities as flyers, parachutists, submariners, divers, and frogmen as part of Law 2629. As of now, there is no other study on our agenda. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's main motion (6/1757): The Council of Ministers has been authorized to differentiate the value tax rate of the land or dwelling on the basis of the tax value and location of construction of new dwellings with Law 6322. In the decision (2012/4116), construction licenses in major cities have been passed down to 150 square metres from 01/01/2013 to taxing on the property level of property tax in luxury and first-class housing according to the Law on Real Estate Tax. According to this, the land value in the dwelling will be 1 per cent of VAT, which is less than 500 per square meter, and 8 per cent for those between 500 lira and $1,000 will be applied to 18 per cent VAT. Other dwellings will continue to be applied at 1 per cent and 18% per cent for those below 150 square meters, as they used to be. Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2170) is the main motion by Mr. Mahmut Tanal (6/2739): Turkish Airlines Anonym Partnership is an organisation that operates according to private legal provisions, with 49.12 per cent of the public share. The issues in these questions have been answered as follows by Turkish Airlines: Turkish Airlines has reported to the Public Enlightenment Platform any information on the issues in the questions. There is no additional information available at this stage. The matter of those who have been dismissed has been brought to trial, and will be carried out in accordance with the decision to be made. Mr. Ali Halaman (6/2171), Mr. Levent Tüzzel (6/2267), Mr. Alim Izwar (6/282822) and Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's Prime Minister (6/2472) main question motions (6/2817) and (6/2817) are now taxed on economic and social developments to contribute to the reduction of the current transactions in order to achieve budget targets with financial discipline. In September 2012, UTV numbers were increased on fuel products. For more than two and a half years before this arrangement, no changes have been made in the amount of tax on fuel products. From 31/12/2009 to 22/09/2012, the barrel price of Brent-type oil rose from 77.9 dollars to $111.4 per cent at the same time, while TÜFE increased by 21.4 per cent, while the victim was only 30 cents higher. In the last quarter of 2012, the value of the deed has also been increased by the EV, which has been collected from DUIs and motor vehicles that have not passed more than 1,600 cubic centimeters [600 cm]. Akaryat, motor vehicles and alcoholic beverages are estimated at $2.5 billion in central management budget revenues in 2012, and the arrangements made on the deed fees. On 31/12/2002, the cost of 100 liras of gas was 70.2 liras, while the taxload dropped to 61.4 liras as of 22/05/2013. Likewise, on 01/01/2005, the tax charge in the price of a $100 engine dropped from $65.1 to 53.7 liras as of 22/05/2013. On the other hand, due to rising prices in international markets, natural gas prices have been increased by BOTAS by 9.8 per cent to the final consumer prices, which are valid from October 2012. Due to increases in energy costs, retail electricity prices have been increased by the Energy Market Editorial Agency at between 4.03 per cent and 9.81 per cent. On the other hand, there is no statistics on the ceremonies of Mr. Corporate's question. I can't agree with your arguments on this. Essentially, in these matters, necessary measures have been taken by the Prime Minister's Committee 2007/3 on savings, and the implementation is carried out accordingly. No reduction in taxes on fuel products is on the agenda. Mr. Mahmoud Tanal (6/2209) and (6/2210) are the main proposals of (6/2210): Regarding the questions, the office of the President's General Secretary-General has been subject to Articles 5018 in which all the actions and procedures of the presidency's General Secretary-General have been supervised in accordance with the needs of the supreme office, in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation and in accordance with the requirements of the administration of our president, and in accordance with the duties of the State Department of Foreign Affairs, as well as with which the issues have been made in place of construction and maintenance, as well as there have been established in this day. The four questions of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2245), the main question (6/2315) is: First of all, my Ministry has no authority to pay or postpone the purchases of electricity, telephones, internet and water. The debtors in Van County do not have an instalment due under Law 6111. As a result of the change in Law 6183, the authority to register amemeric debt due to natural disasters has been authorized until the date of the end of the outbreak of natural disasters, with no interest or less than the current rate of interest. 6/2273) and (6/2579) and Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/35222) are the main questions: there has been a significant increase in inflation during the period of our governments, both employees and pensioners. Months have actually increased between one and six stories, and economic growth has spread to the ground. During the period 2002 December-2013, the lowest civil servant salary, including family aid, increased by 364%, 197 per cent minimum civil servant labor month, 259 per cent minimum labour month, 403 per cent of the BUG-KURL pension, and 748 per cent of the lowest BUG-KUR-KUR pension pension. At the same time, the increase in TÜFE was 150 per cent. On the other hand, with the initiative system, more than 2 million 73,000 SEC pensions and more than 233,000 monthly pensions and more than 12,000 BUG-KUR pensions were recalculated during the period of June 2000, and were provided to raise the pensions starting in January 2013. On the other hand, some criteria, such as the geographical location, the location of the mission -- the factory, the construction site, the mine, the office, the land -- are differentiated, even if the monthly items paid for the pension are the same, without the actual monthly amount. This variation stems from the purpose of making amends for the challenges that public personnel have endured, according to their precedents, during their duties. Since it is not in accordance with the status law to reflect elements that have been differentiated from the actual challenges of the working period, these factors are not taken into account in the account of the pension and pension. The inclusion of the non-retarded sums of pensions is not consistent with the social security system's principle of blessing-infection and it is considered not appropriate to go to an arrangement to increase and reflect the deficits of the social security system. Mr. Reşat Truet (6/2363)'s main motion was: In April 2002, 2013, TÜFE growth increased by 150 per cent, while in the same period there were increased rates of 257 per cent and 457 per cent in honourary pensions paid under Law 1005, while in non-social security. As you can see, there is no decline in the months, and the monthly is both nominal and real. Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2441): The implementation period of Law No. 5084 ended at 31/12/2012). The new system of incentives implemented by the Council of Ministers' Decision on State Aids in Investments, which took effect on 19 June 2012, is the most comprehensive incentive system in our republic's history. Investments in Law 5084 and 49 districts are supported, while investments in 81 districts are supported by the new incentive system, according to the level of development in six districts. Our work on incentives continues. Mr. Mahmut Tanal (6/2485)'s main question motion is: As of 2012, VAT and UV taxes, including consumer taxes, totalling 103 billion and 277 million dollars, institution tax 29 billion, 17 million dollars, income tax collection 56 billion 493 million dollars. The total rate for tax revenues is 37 per cent, 10.4 per cent and 20.3 per cent, respectively. Tax revenues for 2012 are considered an illegitimate domestic product ratio, or a narrow tax burden of 19.7 per cent. The total tax load is 27.4 per cent, including social security premiums. As of 2012, the Social Security Agency's total revenues of 103 billion dollars and $385 million in bonus collections are 135 billion $695 million. The total percentage of bonus collections is 76.2%. If they want the painting, I can give it to Mr. Tanal. The main question motion of Mr. Ali Halaman (6/2490): You asked the same questions (7/12309) in your original written motion, and I answered them on 11/12/2012. Our Government Programme, the Ninth Development Plan and the Central Future Program stress that reducing informality in the economy is the main goal and is to continue to fight off the books. In this framework, we have implemented three years of anti-regional economic strategy action plans starting in 2008. The second plan, which covers 2011-2013, continues with 14 public institutions and organisations, in line with increased voluntary compliance, strengthening control capacity, boosting the deterrent of sanctions, sharing databases and increasing social awareness. Developments are also being assessed by the High Council for Anti-Regional Economics in the presidency of our Prime Minister, and the necessary high-level decisions are being made. As a result of these studies, our country has had a significant reduction in informality rates. In 2002, the total share of non-registered employment was 52.1 per cent, while in February 2013 it was reduced to 36.4 per cent. Similarly, an international study conducted by the University of Linz of Austria is a study of 38 countries -- showing that in the last decade, the percentage of non-registership in our country has declined by about 6 points to 26.5 per cent. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's main motion (6/2511): Since our government took office in 2002, we have launched a major work in improving the country's prosperity, improving revenue distribution and reducing poverty. The fact that our poor citizens are homeowners in low installments, health benefits for non-social security, additional funding for Social Aid and Solidarity, special emphasis on disabled employment; loans, scholarships, dorms, books, milk and goods opportunities, enhancement of agricultural products; protection of orphaned elderly and children; improving prosperity, removing poverty and despair; and only a few of our policies, according to the level of education of primary education and higher education. We support these areas with regional development projects to ensure the development of our underdeveloped regions. We're implementing short, medium and long-term policies that increase employment across the country, thinking that employment is at the top of the fight against poverty. As a result of these policies, according to the figures of the Turkish Statistical Institution, the percentage of the household's revenues, according to 20 per cent of the population, increased from total revenues to 5.3 per cent in 2002 to 5.8 per cent in 2011. Again, the gini coefficient, which shows whether the income distribution has been corrupted or not, has been reduced to 0.40 in 2002, when it was 0.44, when it was healed in 2011. The daily spending per person showing the absolute level of poverty has been zeroed since 2005. The rate was 3.04 per cent in 2002, while the rate was reduced to 0.14 per cent in 2011, so that's almost zero. In 2002, the poverty rate dropped from 30.3 per cent to 2.79 per cent in 2011, based on the $4.3 per person's daily spending limit. As you can see, our governments have improved income distribution in their time, and poverty has also been reduced. Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2552)'s main question motion is: Over 50 lira borrowers have been identified as the target mass in letter applications. There is no follow-up or letter application for a fee such as $1.00, if there is one, then there is one. Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2688) is the main question motion of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2688): The concession agreement signed between Turkish TELEKOM and Information Technologies and Communication Agency and Turkey's TelEkom (TELEKOM) have been obliged to hand over all the equipment that affects the functioning of the system and to the institution for free of charge. Turkish TELEKOM has the right to make necessary savings on its properties, including its purpose and purpose, within the framework of its main contract. The property of Turkey's TELEKOM is also leased to third individuals, especially their own group companies, for the most efficient and efficient use of all of its properties. In this way, the maintenance, repair and business costs of both income and rental areas are saved by the tenant. In addition, criminal charges regarding real estate sales have been issued by the courts and the appeals have been rejected. Mr. Arif Bulut (6/2715) is the main question motion: There has been no demand for the Ministry regarding the disaster. Regarding the subject of Ecrimilimil, those who suffer from payability are earmarked for up to three years under certain conditions. In advance payments, 35 per cent are reduced by 20 per cent in installments. In the village, there has been no application for payability as a result of the need for understanding by the local administration. The main question motion for Mr. Ismet Bünataman (6/2815) is: Studies and Social Security Ministry for the transfer of contracted personnel employed in the local administrations according to Article 36/02 of the City's Law of 49 and 5302. On the other hand, there is no study at the Ministry for the deployment of other personnel mentioned in the question motion. Mr. Kamer Young (6/2836) is the main question motion of 6/2836: Rental of the treasure deposits is carried out under regulations and relevant notifications regarding the State Contraction Act 2886 and the Administration of the Treasure Movers. In this framework, a protocol between our Ministry and the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs was set for the mosque, the mosque, the mosque, and a 21/12/2006 protocol that allowed them to be rented. This protocol was signed to ensure repairs, renovations and general costs of mosques, but in 2012, the prosecution ruled that the State Department's protocols and sub protocols be annulled only for building a base station. Regarding parts of the protocol that have been cancelled by the State, previous lease agreements remain valid under general law. After 2012, the foundation was shut down and the process was run by the Chairman of the Religious Affairs. According to information received from the Ministry of Religious Affairs, 946 mosques owned by the Treasury have been rented. There's no way I'm going to be able to express the information on the rented mosques and the renters over time here. The $54 million from these rentals has been transferred to the Treasury for $11.6 million. Mr. Youth (6/2837)'s main question motion is: The Association of Lighthouses, the Treasury property, or any allocation, property transfer, rental or rights facility under the government's rule and savings. The main question motion for Mr. Ismet Buyataman (6/2856): The tender for privatisation of highways and bridges is cancelled by the Supreme Council of Privatisation on privatisation of the privatisation of the rights to operate. Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/2875)'s main question motion: We made a press statement on this issue on the news released in the press on January 21, 2013. The first question in the proposal is that the system is based on a false coding of the user, and there is no repeat payment. There is no double payment for those who have changed their position. Regarding the third question, the extra payment was noticed and returned the following month. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/2887) and 6/2888 (6/2888) primary question motions directed to our Prime Minister: The new incentive system launched in 2009 has been made more comprehensive by the Council of Ministers' Decision on State Aids in Investments 2012/3305. The new investment incentive system aims to boost competitiveness, production and employment, especially added value, incentives for high strategic investments of technology and R&D value, resolving regional development differences and reducing our economy's dependence on imports. A total of 45.3 lira tax collections were made in 2012 regarding the automotive and the side industry, and tax revenues from motor vehicles have been more than a budgetary goal. In this framework, we do not already have a study on VAT and STV discounts for commercial vehicles asked in the motion. The main question motion for Mr. Ali Halaman (6/2968): There is no study conducted by our Ministry on pensions from 3600 additional indicators for non-existent ones. Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3081) is the main question motion: As part of the Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster No. 6306, we asked for information from eighty provinces in January 2013. While not all answers have been answered, it has been revealed that the eastern and southeast provinces of the region do not have buildings that should or should not be destroyed that belong to our Ministry. Mr. Ismet Büyükataman (6/3126) is the main question proposal by Mr. Ali Halaman (6/3355): There are no disabled personnel deficits in our ministry and 848 disabled staff. The arrangements for the transport of disabled people began in 2005 and were completed in 2008. In 2012, an elevator construction contract was held, and it is scheduled to be completed this year. 2.591 wheelchairs and 500 pairs of crutches have been made for the disabled, and 1,000 writing suits and 5,500 white canes for the visually impaired. A vocational training school for disabled persons has been established. We've also made the necessary changes in tax laws for our disabled citizens. We're working with the ministries concerned to get easier reports for the report to be evaluated soon. I answer seven questions from Mr. Ismet Bigataman. (6/3131): A total of nine appointments were made to my Ministry from 2002 to 2012, including four chiefs of staff, two ministerial advisers, three press and public relations counselors, as part of Article 59 of State Officers' Law No. 657. Four of them were appointed to serve, and three of them were separated. (6/3132) The main question motion is: Our ministry did not hire vehicles for the needs of central and rural units in 2002-2005. In 2006, 29 was rented in 2007, 40 in 2007, 35 in 2008, 29 in 2009, 78 in 2010, 133 in 2011, 132 in 2012, and 82 in the first four months of 2013. The increase in car rentals over the past few years has been based on the need for studies related to 2/B. In the same years, 262, 475, 485, 712, 728, 850, 1 million 313 and 468, respectively. 6/3133) and (6/3134) main question proposals: from 2004 to April 2013, when the analytical budget system was implemented, the budget was 03.6.2. 01 Introduction, ceremony, fair, organizational costs in the economic code, the amount of expenditures made by our Ministry is $88.696. At the same time, the total spending of general budgetary administrations is 105.3 million liras. As of 2004: 2.8; 2005: 5; 2006: 6.1; 2007: 12.4; 2008: 12.8; 2009: 8.7; 2010: 11.8; 2011: 22.8; 2012: 19.1; April 2013, 3.6 million liras. Our ministry has provided representation, hospitality, ceremony, and organizational costs for our budget (03.6.1. A total of 3.3 million liras were spent from 2004 to the end of 2012. These expenditures were made within the framework of existing legislation and in the sense of maximum savings, taking into account the prime minister's statements on austerity measures. (6/3134): The number of cases filed against me by the Ministry staff for changes in office from 2002 to 2013 is 448, and 298 is in favour of the administration, and 125 is in favour of the people. The decision has not yet been made for 25 of them. There have been 214 lawsuits against personnel, including 18 of which have been accepted, 9 of which have been partially accepted, 10 of which have been rejected, and 177 of whom have been in trouble. (6/3135): The deputy minister is chosen by consideration of information, savings, experience and achievements and performs the tasks given by my side. Since June 2012, there have been 16 domestic trips and no foreign trips. (6/3143): All foreign visits carried out by our ministry are part of official assignment. There are no foreign visits made during the trip. The question of Mr. Erkan Akçay (6/3272) is: A five-time income expert's exam has been conducted to ensure that employees of the IRS have access to the quality of the service that will make it necessary for them to specialize in it. Nearly 14,000 people who carry the prerequisite and have succeeded in the examination have been appointed as experts. It's natural to have a price difference between the one who wins the exam and the one who doesn't. For a similar special exam to be opened, a legal arrangement must be made. The main question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/3304): Tax reviews are carried out according to the provisions set out in the tax laws, based on the principle of tax privacy, on the protection of the taxpayer's rights, without discrimination. In 2012, the Tax Control Board examined 46,845 taxpayers. It has been suggested that the appropriate punishments be imposed on those who act against the laws of the tax laws. Three questions from Mr. Ensar Öğün...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0141par0364	No, how much tax was found, Mr. Secretary, how much tax, why don't you just say that?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0140par0365	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0142par0366	You go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0140par0367	Maybe that question wasn't asked.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0143par0368	Okay, so how much tax money was found?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0140par0369	But it's not your question.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0144par0370	Minister, you go ahead.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0143par0371	How much of the Central Compromise have you forgiven?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0140par0372	Mr. Young, it's not your question.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0143par0373	It's not mine, but I'm listening here. So there's no need to give anyone false information.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0145par0374	Minister, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0140par0375	I answered our dear friend. If that friend of ours finds it inadequate, he'll let me know again. Three questions from Mr. Ensar Öğün... (6/3333): Electronic foreclosure is an application in accordance with Law 6183 foreclosure. The notice of the foreclosure to third persons by mail or electronically does not result in any different results. The pursuit and collection of unpaid amemites is a legal obligation. How right it is to talk about how this is going to boost the off-the-book economy, and I'll leave it to your appreciation. (6/3335): The share of indirect tax revenues in Turkey is relatively high, including social security premiums. However, the main issue is that direct taxes are not enough, rather than the height of indirect taxes. Because according to the OECD rating, including social security premiums and local government tax revenues, the percentage of direct taxes in Turkey is 8.2 per cent below the OECD average of 14.8 per cent to 2.2 per cent in the GDP. Indirect taxes, however, are only 1.6 points above the OECD average, 12.6 per cent in Turkey. (6/3342): In Turkey, the application of the Internet Tax Office was launched in September 2004, one of the first major steps taken on transparency of public administrations and electronic state practices. The application provided the password for 45,766 financial advisors who worked independently as of September 2004, and 235,806 financial advisors who worked as addicts. The main question motion of Mr. Ali Halaman (6/3354): During our administrations, the small and medium-sized enterprises, which contributed significantly to the development of our economy during the period, were provided comprehensive support, particularly the new incentive system, which began in 2009 and the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions 5746. The work continues to be carried out by the end of 2009 on tax incentives for SME mergers aimed at strengthening business capital structures and boosting competitiveness. We also have various exceptions and reduction provisions in our legislation, which provide tax support for the COBIs, income tax laws, added value tax laws, stamp tax laws and tuition laws. Since we do not have a separate register for the SMEs, I cannot provide any information on tax debts. The answers to the four questions of Mr. Erkan Akçay are: (6/3566): It is normal for different administrations, whose duties and the construction of the country's organization, to differ, to have different regulations on their appointment through relocation. The Ministry of Finance personnel have begun updates on the regulations relating to their appointment by placing. (6/3567): In determining the financial and social rights of public personnel, the class of service, the staff and the title of duty, and the degree of training are also considered, as well as the importance, responsibility, risk and so on. Therefore, there can be a partial difference in wages, depending on the task. Generally, the same service class and staff members who serve in our ministry and other public administrations have the same level of compensation rates and additional payments. There is no study in our ministry regarding the increase in labour constraints, job risk increases, increase in financial responsibilities. (6/3569): The services, food and clothing benefits of our staff are conducted within the framework of applications, budget resources and existing legislation in other institutions. We aim for improvements as long as possible. On the other hand, there is no distinction in taking advantage of our social facilities. (6/3571): The annual leave of absence and escort permit in our ministry is implemented within the framework of Law 657 and relevant legislation. The problems with the escort's permit were greatly appreciated by changes made in Law No. 657 in 2011. There is no study conducted by the Ministry on the issues mentioned in the question. The main question of Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri (6/3658) is: The number of 20 years and more cars across Turkey is 2 million 66. We made arrangements to encourage the withdrawal of vehicles over a certain age. In this framework, administrative traffic sentences, which have been issued prior to the year 1990 and before 31/12/2014, have been suspended by unpaid motor vehicle tax, interest and tax fines, and up to 28/02/2009. Other than that, we have no completed work. The main question of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/37000) is: A 4-billion-dollar target has been set in the 2013 budget as a privatisation revenue, and the target has been exceeded by 16/05/2013 and transferred to $5.1 billion worth of treasure. Electric and gas distribution, electricity production, port management and the sale of subsidiaries, combined with privatisation practices in the signing process, is $12.8 billion. The main question of Mr. Mahmut Tanal (6/3745) is: According to the 2012 IMF data, Turkey is ranked in the 8th place in 186 countries in the world in terms of the GDP in terms of the GDP in terms of the GDP. Last year, we had the current deficit brought down significantly by the policies we've implemented. In the first quarter of this year, there is a stable trend in the current open. But, of course, you have to admit, last year we paid $60 billion for energy imports. Had Turkey been self-sufficient in energy, Turkey would have overpaid around 13 billion dollars last year. But it's a fact of Turkey. To overcome these problems, we've actually taken a lot of structural measures, such as moving Turkey above the value chain, improving the quality of education, building infrastructure, to increase Turkey's competitiveness, very serious incentives to infrastructure investments, strategic investments on the other hand, to stimulate local and renewable resources in energy. I believe that in the middle, long term, Turkey, as in inflation, will come to the point of solving its current open problem. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've finished answering verbal questions here. I tried to answer as many questions as possible from my friends. I thank all my friends who ask questions here. I salute the High Council. Also, there were some paintings, and there was no way for me to explain them here -- paintings with information that our three valued friends requested -- and I'll be happy to pass them along. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0146par0395	Now, I'm going to take you in here for two minutes, and three of my friends are going to ask you again, and then I'd appreciate it if you'd just, you know, finish it in five minutes at the latest. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0147par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank the Minister for his responses. In my oral questions on October 9, 2012, I specifically stated that the burden of the increase in our people's basic services and products, such as fuel, gas, and electricity, was also paid by workers and workers, who make up the majority of the people. In this case, the government continues its implementation of legislation to deepen social inequality. For example, there is a tax on those who are recently released and spoken in public as the peace of existence, which has been passed on to the wealthy abroad, but the basic services used by many millions of minimum wage are nearly one-third of the tax on these products. Again, in the same way, last week's bag of legislation has been pardoned for the bills that banks should pay, and now, today's Turkish Oil Act has investment reductions and tax exceptions to oil companies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, I'll complete it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0148par0402	We're already hearing it, keep asking questions. I'm not breaking anything, I'm following the rule. Mr. Secretary here. Don't break any rules. You talk, I can hear you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0147par0404	So, the following questions remain, Mr. Secretary, in the injustice of income and poverty...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0149par0405	Then open it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0148par0406	No.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0149par0407	Why not?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0148par0408	There's no one there, you can hear me.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0149par0409	You're doing the app wrong, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0148par0410	Maybe...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0150par0411	Let me finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0151par0412	Mr. Corporate, you go ahead, Mr. Secretary, he hears you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0152par0413	The 98th article is very clear.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0153par0414	Oh, come on! I mean, normally it was just a minute, so I'd ask...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0152par0416	Is that possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0154par0417	He'd have done it by now.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0152par0418	The ministers are talking for an hour, they need to answer questions one by one, and the congressman has to answer them one by one. Open up, read Article 98.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0155par0419	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0152par0420	This Mustafa doesn't understand!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0156par0421	Some elders don't understand!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0152par0422	Why don't you come and I'll teach you a lesson in the Civil Code, Mustafa?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0157par0423	Let me finish. What is the amount of income injustice and the responsibility for tax policies that are monitored in poverty? How much do you think it would be possible for you to prevent poverty as long as your exemptions and privileges to the capital groups come from the workers, laborers, manufacturers, as long as this injustice continues? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0158par0427	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0159par0428	Yes, Mr. President, in fact -- we respect your personality -- the 98th Amendment is very clear. The question will be read first, the minister will answer it, the congressman will say his opinion in front of it. 90% of the Minister's answers here are wrong. Sir, when it comes to taxes, you're hiding in tax privacy, you're hiding trafficking, you're erasing a quadrillion-dollar tax debt to your supporters in Central Reconciliation, and then you come back here and give them false information. Mr. President, look, I'm saying that Hopa, Rize, Giresun, Army, Sinop, Tekirdağ ports have been privatized through revenue sharing. They've assigned them, a governor, a bureaucrat there, to the board of directors and control. They took their wages, they ate, they drank, they took the state's rights. No collections were made. We have the court reports, and they're timed out. Mr. Mehmet is leaving, giving false information here. Is that possible, Mr. President? And then we say... if the government doesn't answer the questions given here, we're the people who know the facts, and if the person who knows the wrong answer is given, then everything is respected, the dignity of this House is over, this government's reputation is over. Is that possible, sir? We're being misinformed here. That's why it doesn't work if you come out here and give false information. So our questions aren't being answered, and that's what the Presidential Court is all about. Therefore, please apply the 98th article according to procedure. Let him answer each question separately, and we'll answer him back. I mean, he's out here talking for an hour, he's responding to his account the way he came in, and then he's giving false information. He has just answered a question, how many tax studies have been conducted in Turkey? He does not say, under tax confidentiality. What tax privacy? Tax privacy! So, he goes to the DA, he goes to the tax courts, they have no privacy? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But when they don't come into your account, here's what the security says. Here, the Minister of Energy sits there, hiding the price of natural gas.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0160par0434	I gave you two minutes, I gave Mr. Corporate a minute, I gave you two because I gave him the right. Now, Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0161par0436	Mr. President, I have a quick word.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0160par0437	For God's sake, now, let's get this over with.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0161par0438	I mean, I'm going to point out a contradiction, Mr. President. Now, I mentioned the cost of representation in one of my questions, Mr. Secretary has made a statement that we have no indication of this, but another MP's question has been spent $3.3m on this issue in 2004. He replied differently, so there is no such identification in my question. He made such a conflicting statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0162par0441	I get it. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0163par0443	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, my questions in my main oral question proposal (6/2739) during the 34th period of verbal questions were clearly and clearly none of them answered: Were a registered aircraft purchased in the name of Turkish Airlines during our time? If it's taken, how much is it worth? No response. If it was taken, where is it still, what purpose is it? What's the make and type of plane? What's the range of the plane? What is the total capacity of the aircraft in question? Is there a separate cost for the disbursement, aside from the purchase price of the plane? If it's done, what's the amount? How much does an hour's flight cost, except insurance, maintenance, amortization costs? Also, in the main oral motion (6/2210), which is ranked 15th place (6/2210): Where does President Abdullah Gul reside from 2007 when he took office? Since 2007, how much money has been made to be specified each year and for each study under the name of maintenance, repair and renovations at the Presidential residence? What pen did these expenses come from? We wanted a sample of the spending bills, but they weren't answered. The maintenance, repairs, renovations at the presidential official residence are performed by whom? Is there any outside service? If there is an outside service route, what conditions and what firms do you buy services from? We've asked for all of these companies' business records, records, all of their information. You didn't give it to us. In the same way, in my original number-fourth (6/2209) oral motion: how many vehicles are in the presidency each year to be specified separately from 2000 to the date of the motion? What are the brands and models of these vehicles? We've asked each of them for their information separately. From 2000 to the date of the motion, what is the policy of the presidential rental vehicle used each year to be specified separately?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0164par0450	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0163par0451	So I'm sorry, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary hasn't responded to any of this. I thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0164par0453	I gave them both two minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0165par0454	Mr. President, let him answer the real question. Now, Ahmet Davutoglu rents 60,000 lira a month. Abdallah Gul goes, and dwells in the Inviolable Mansion. Is that a thing? And he lives in the Kayseri's apartment.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0164par0456	Mr. Secretary, you'll be on the stand in five minutes. If you don't finish in five minutes, you'll give it to me in writing. And then I'm gonna take a break. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0166par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all again. Now, dear friends, for once, in my answers to the questions, I have made it very clear to you that poverty in Turkey has been reduced in all numbers. The United Nations has its criteria, its gini coefficient. I gave you whatever number you wanted. If you have been here, I've shown that poverty is dwindling in Turkey, that income distribution has become more fair. Now, in Turkey, of course, we receive high-dose taxes on consumption, but that doesn't mean that there are no taxes on capital. The issue of peace of existence is one thing. In the 1970s, in the 1980s, in the 1990s, with some fears, $130 billion... our citizens' money is out there, it's out there. From time to time, they can bring this money as a loan to Turkey and even write interest costs in companies. Now, there's been a significant development over the last few years. What's going on? One: banks sank in the world's most advanced countries, now the safety of the port has changed, Turkey has become a safe port. Two, there is no tax paradise. Within G-20, within the OECD, the European Commission has begun serious sanctions for tax paradise, and everything is transparent now. So we're doing this opportunity so that this money doesn't stay out, this money comes to Turkey, Turkey's capital, Turkey's companies, Turkey's growth, employment increase, minimum wage brothers or unemployed have more opportunity. So with what you're saying...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0167par0463	Then why two percent tax?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0166par0464	Now, let's not talk mutually, please, I've listened to you. Now, here's to Mr. Young. Mr. Young, I said that until April 30, 2013, when the ports were privatized, the right-of-business agreements of the Turkish Maritime Company had a $13.7m cut of...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0466	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0166par0467	Please listen.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0468	What I'm saying here is income sharing, except that other rent. There's no rent available through income sharing.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0166par0469	Now, look, don't listen...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0470	You're giving me false information!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0166par0471	You don't give a damn.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0472	But you're giving false information.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0169par0473	He's not being polite, it's no bother.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0474	By way of income sharing...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0475	Look, I'm not giving false information. Please... I invite you to be kind. Please, be kind enough to listen to me.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0476	...Rize, Hopa, Giresun...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0171par0477	Mr. Secretary, we're listening, you speak to us.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0478	Now, dear friends, I've never...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0479	You're giving false information.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0480	I'll give it to you how much it's worth. I'm saying $11.8 million was collected.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0481	That's different.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0482	Look at what's left of it, the legal action on the remaining shares is ongoing, and I'm saying the cases are in trouble.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0483	You've put a statute of limitations on the statute of limitations.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0484	Now, let's stay, and if anyone's time-consuming, let's start an investigation into them as well.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0168par0485	Yeah, well, your governors over there are running out of time.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0486	Now, to Mr. Tanal's questions, Mr. Tanal, the public's share of Turkish Airlines has fallen below 50 per cent. That's where I read the answer Turkish Airlines sent me. It's a private law firm. I gave you the answer they gave me, and I wish they'd given you more details, and I would have told you. We asked the presidential secretary general to answer the questions you asked. I've read all the answers the presidential secretary general's office has sent me from here again, and I've passed them on to you. Now, even so, you're not answering our questions. It's really unfair to say...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0172par0488	I'm sorry. Not in return, but your answer doesn't match your question.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0490	Then here's the thing. If we made a mistake, we'll fix it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0172par0491	I won't fix it, but you will.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0492	I'm telling you, it could be, here, dear friends, prepared to answer hundreds of questions. We sat down, and I gave these answers here. These questions may have been mixed up.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0172par0493	It's not interference, but it has nothing to do with it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0494	No, no, it's like this: maybe we're asking another question from the presidential secretary general... look, about the housing, if you'd like, let me get the answer out of the computer.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0172par0495	Take it off, see if it fits. It doesn't match.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0496	Of course it does, it's like...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0173par0497	Send us that article and we'll look into it.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0498	The answer from the presidency's Secretary General is that we have a protocol with the Department of Foreign Affairs, using the State Department's residence.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0173par0499	Why doesn't he use Chankaya?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0170par0500	Excuse me, fellas. No renovations have been made regarding the mansion in the presidential complex, and the money has not been spent, he says. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Secretary General of the presidency is saying. If that doesn't satisfy you, you'll ask me again, but as the presidential secretary general sent me an answer on this matter, I passed it on to you. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0174par0504	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0175par0505	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0174par0506	Sir?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0175par0507	Look, he's giving me the wrong answer. Now, 13 ports. That's what he's saying, for the last seven years, it's been leased.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0508	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0174par0509	Yeah, I'm gonna take a break.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0510	Asked questions, answered answers.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0511	Wait a minute! What the hell are you talking about? Shut up, Mustafa.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0512	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0513	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0514	The part about verbal questions is over.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0178par0515	It's over.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0516	Look, Mr. President, we have six ports...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0517	Mr. President, we don't have that kind of procedure. Mr. Secretary has answered verbal questions at the proper time, and according to the Civil Code of 98, you have given our friends their rights...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0518	...by sharing income, which is 75 per cent of the proceeds from the running of those ports, he owns the port, and he gives 25 per cent to the state. From this 25 percent, no collection has been made so far.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0519	...but it won't happen again just because the Minister doesn't like the answer. He may ask questions again.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0520	The governors are testers there.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0521	Mr. President, the next time he asks a question, it's not gonna happen, sir.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0522	Mustafa's man is there too, the governor is the tester.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0179par0523	No, no questions, I'm gonna take a break now anyway.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0524	Ask him one more question.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0525	So he's not answering right, he's giving the wrong answers. Mustafa, why don't you...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0527	Don't talk!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0177par0528	Why is he touching you?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0176par0529	He won't touch me. You don't know, what kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit03spe0180par0530	The question motions have been answered. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0180par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Oil Act and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report, which is ranked third. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to Article 91 of the Article 91 of the Interior Charter, the talks on the entire bill, which was considered a fundamental law, were completed and passed into its Articles, according to the 108th Amendment, dated 22/5/2013. (x) 450 S. The Numbered Basmaz (22/5/2013) is added to its 108th Union Charter. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers the 1st to 20th article. Ýzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam has been asked to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the first chapter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0181par0025	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Oil Act, and I salute you all. We've done a lot of work on this law. In the commissions, we tried to convey our views in detail regarding the draft bill and to support the establishment of a law in accordance with our modern, constructive and national interests so that the country can have a national oil law. Our point of view on this was that Turkey had done a study on this law before, and this work has come back from the presidency, and the work that came back has not been brought back to Parliament for a long time. The president's reasons for turning back are, in fact, at the point of stressing that there are significant shortcomings in the law passed by the Parliament regarding national oil policy and demanding a review of the bill in accordance with national interests in Turkey. We believe in the importance of oil in this country. Turkey may not be as rich as the countries around it as its oil sources, but it is a very important country on its geography and its location, over its transit routes of oil and natural gas. As of today, Turkey, if it has a national oil policy and a national strategy, if it understands the importance of its wealth and its conjuncture in this sense, Turkey will have the opportunity to compensate for an important loss in imports today, as it has the opportunity to seek oil in many countries in the world. The first thing we did in this law was this: this law must implement a national oil policy. How is that possible? He'll be like the world's example. Turkey needs a national oil company with a vertical organisation to do its oil search, business and organisation on behalf of the state, including the refinery. This is Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership, but this law leaves the newly laid law, the Turkish Oil Association as a national oil company, the country's national oil company, to be equal to domestic or international companies working at the country's oil point, and on top of that, it leaves it as a company that can't compete with private sectors and international companies by keeping resources at a low point in the Ministry's general administration. A company like this is at a point where it's been raced into the impossible, with privileges taken from its hands, with other companies. We don't have to accept that. This is not right for our national oil strategy and policy. We need a very clear stance on this. In the process, we supported the search, research, extraction of all oil sources of Turkey, encouraging domestic and international companies who wanted to invest in it, and in the process of billing, we saw that the ministry's view of Turkey's Petroleums Anonymous Partnership was to dismiss it as an ordinary company. The second issue is: The oil law is not consolidated to a national oil policy, neither the speech nor the spirit. It's one of the most fundamental flaws. Dear friends, you will see our sensitivity when you review the problems our country has faced in the past and today's issues. Third: This law has left environmental sensitivity aside in the search for oil, and even national parks have been forced to write to the law that is far away from environmental sensitivity to international companies. See, the number of countries that have oil in the world is limited, the number of countries that have no oil. Most of them import oil. You find money to import oil, but you have no alternative to replacing the natural national parks you destroy. For him, you have to have that kind of perspective when comparing money and nature to each other. Dear friends, as of this point, I'd like to share a few things with you here. In the Black Sea, Turkey has made certain openings in this law on the search for the seas in the eastern Mediterranean, but we have not been able to do anything beyond send Piri Reis, even though we have said so in the East Mediterranean, against the fact that it has limited its resources in its search efforts by the Greeks in the East Mediterranean through its natural gasses. We have not been able to report it, but we have not been able to do anything beyond a few days. The new Barbaros, however, is not yet in the process of doing a study on the subject. See, Cyprus, which is in need of electricity, has acquired significant gas deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean with Israel, with its work with Italy, and has signaled that it can handle its debts and its crisis through them. We are not in a position to look for oil in isolated economic areas in the eastern Mediterranean. We need the Minister to brief us on a second matter here. We need information on recent developments in northern Iraq. The company established outside what we call the TPAO (TPAO) company, which has been separated from TPAO (TPAO), has been brought to BOTAŞ, and has been told that this company will make a partnership with Exxon Mobil and will look for oil in the region, but the responses of the Iraqi Central Government and various criticisms of the distribution of Iraqi territorial integrity are not included in the American attitude, what is thought of in the United States after meeting with Obama. This information must be shared with the Parliament and the public in Turkey. Dear friends, we have to follow and monitor such delicate balances of oil that should be national policy. Turkey's weaknesses in foreign policy, especially in oil, have serious weaknesses in energy. As it turns out, we're seeing the problem with Iran, where we've taken most of our oil, with Iraq, with other countries. For him, Turkey is going through a national policy on oil, with a strong Turkish Oil Corporation, its autonomous structure, its resources have been strengthened, not under the Ministry's command, but within its international strategy, making its own independent decisions, such as BP in the world, in Russia, in other countries. How do you create this? You didn't create this. By taking back the privileges given to TPAO, you weaken TPAO. With what budget, TPAO? With budgets of around 500 million, oil exploration and opening wells can't be done, which is a difficult job. We need a national policy for that. We will continue to express our views in this Parliament with any suggestions for this. These are the thoughts and suggestions of the Republican People's Party. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0182par0041	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0183par0045	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on part one of the 450 Turkish Oil Law Bill. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the entire operation of searching, production, transport, refrigeration, distribution and marketing in Turkey is organised by the 6326 Oil Act of 1954. Over time, this law has been changed in parallel with the development of the industry. In particular, after the 2001 crisis, the oil sector also received its share from a series of regulations aimed at the liberalisation of the energy sector. On 2/5/2001, natural gas market number 4646 and oil market laws No. 5015 were adopted on 20/12/2003, and the sector's activities were removed from the scope of Law 6326. Search production activities, which are part of Petroleum Law 6326 and are the first ring of the oil sector, were organised in the draft bill under the demands of international oil monopolys, and on 17 January 2007, Turkish Petroleum Law 5574 was quietly passed through the Grand National Assembly General Assembly without any discussion. The government's four articles, which it called the Turkish Petroleum Act, were vetoed by President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, against national interests, as well as the clause that envisioned the gradual reduction of the state stake in oil produced between them to 2%. Dear lawmakers, today, after five years, the government has re-opened a legal arrangement similar to the previous one. In its name, again, the state-owned oil industry, which operates on behalf of the state in the oil industry with a new regulation called the Turkish Oil Act, is sought to weaken Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership, envisioning new interests for domestic and foreign capital with foreign oil monopolys. Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership is as follows, in order to promote and facilitate new capital in the oil sector. The right to search, search, and registration of a business in Article 6/6 of Law No. 6326 belongs to Turkey's Petroleum Association on behalf of the state. The decree has not been cancelled and has not been included in the bill. Thus, the function of Turkey's Oil Anonymous is being eliminated and the process of privatisation is being opened. With this arrangement, our country will be deprived of an important institution that will ensure the creation and implementation of national energy policies. In the first joke of Article 6326 of Article 13 of Law, the owners of Petrol have the right to export 35 per cent of the landfield and 45 per cent of the marine fields as raw and/or crops over all the crude oil and natural gas they have discovered after 1/1/1980. The rest of it is all raw oil and natural gas produced from fields found before 1/1/1980, and the oil products obtained from them are divided into the country's needs. The decree has been cancelled and is not included in the bill. Thus, the new law will allow oil companies to remove the amount for the country's needs, export all the crude oil and natural gas they have produced in our country abroad. In this case, even in extraordinary situations, the supply of our country's raw oil needs is left at the mercy of the market and oil monopoly. In contrast, the regulation of the Council of Ministers for the purchase of all oil, or some of its oil, is highly vague and likely to create gaps in the application. Under the third joke of Article 14 of the bill, the owner of Petrol can retain foreign currency from the oil exported. This amount of foreign currency is justified from the transfer of net values that exceed this with capital imported to Turkey. Not only with this joke, but with other regulations in Article 14 of the bill, it has allowed foreign companies to transfer their import capital abroad, except for the state share, institutions and income tax, in exchanges they bring in, and through currency in the date of transfer. With this arrangement, capital and profit transfers for foreign investments have been made substantially easy. The decision that foreign states in Article 12 of Law 6326 can directly or indirectly be effective in their administration of companies and individuals acting on the behalf of a foreign state or a foreign state was not included in the Turkish Oil Act, which ruled that they should operate in oil activities, acquire property, establish facilities, and be bound by the permission of the Council of Ministers. Thus, restrictions on the sovereignty of foreign states and companies in the oil sector, a highly strategic area, are sought to be removed. This arrangement gives international oil monopoly a significant advantage. Precious lawmakers are made clear in terms of the draft bill, where Turkish Petroleum Law has a purpose to open the way for domestic and foreign capital by providing various incentives, investment reductions and tax exceptions to private capital: the results and experiences adopted under the 66326 Oil Act, which are consistent with similar ones in the world, the domestic and foreign capital has become more involved in the search of oil and production activities; the simplification of transactions, lower cost of investment reductions and tax exceptions, including incentives for foreign investors, capital and profit transfers, the application process, and the implementation of the rights process, and the implementation of the rights of the day, according to the rights and conditions. However, in the event of the legislation of the Turkish Petroleum Act, not only will domestic and foreign capital be opened up in the sector, but our public organisation, TPAO, whose position to act on behalf of the state and the bill, will be eliminated. The bill will leave TPAO without arms and wings, forcing it to compete under unrivaled conditions with giant oil monopolys with vertical integrated structures. Precious lawmakers are envisioning a new system for the deployment of oil-seeking and business licenses with the Oil Act, which has been brought up as a continuation of the government's privatisation policies over the years, which will replace the oil sector's oil sector. It is said to be aimed at opening the way for domestic and foreign capital in the oil sector and increasing investments. The government's new bill appears to contain some ill-advised regulations for the public and for the country's benefit. All operations and transactions related to the search, development and production of our oil resources should be the basic criteria for the benefit of the public and the country. The part of raw oil produced in our country for national security and domestic consumption must not be removed. The arrangements for supply security should not be left vague. The sector must avoid regulations that will increase the influence of foreign governments and companies. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0184par0059	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0185par0063	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the first chapter of the Turkish Oil Act. Turkey is a country in the midst of world energy reserves with major energy problems, with serious energy deficit problems. Even if it is covered by imports, it is also facing significant energy supply security issues. In order to properly evaluate this bill that has come before us, the government needs to know whether there is an energy policy, if there is one, what it is, and what the outcomes have been in ten and a half years. Our country has imported 72% of its energy needs. This addiction was 69 percent in 2002, so addiction is not diminishing, it's increasing. Another indicator confirming this negative departure was the increase in energy consumption between 2002-2012 and 43 million tonnes of oil equivalent to the equivalent of oil, while the increase in domestic production remained only 7 million tons. It can be met with an internal production of only one-sixth against 43. As a result, the import of energy, which was $9 billion in 2002, exceeded $60 billion in 2012. In the name of power's energy policy, let's take a look at the policies, the issues. Are we going to become a Terminal country, or are we going to be a productive country? For some time, they spent arguing as if they were rivals. The subject of regeneration of renewable energy has been on the agenda of debate, as if solar and wind energy had just been discovered, many discussions have been made, but there has not been a barley-sized journey around here. Billions of tons of coal reserves, often discovered, kept coming up, but never came up. The debate over nuclear power plants was another side of the business. Pessimist approaches have led experts to despair, such as bragging about being a nuclear power plant customer instead of building a nuclear power plant to reach nuclear technology. As if that wasn't enough, Russia, where Turkey was dependent on oil and natural gas, was also forced to surrender to nuclear energy, and technology exploded in Chernobyl, and in Turkey, it exploded cancer cases. Without further ado, we can say that for more than a decade, the government has had no energy policy for the outcome, no further than daily relations with the countries we import and general public statements. I want to remind you that the Greek Cypriot sector, Israel and the United States, had launched search activities in the Greek Cypriot and southern Cypriot economic region, to show that there is no energy policy, and to understand the state of this law that will be passed, they had achieved rich gas sources. When this incident came to light, the government had gone on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Now that the work has come, let's see if we can get Turkey to benefit from the transfer of this oil that Israel will carry from Turkey to the point of gesture to Israel. This is an example of the fact that Turkey has no energy policy and that its foreign policy is completely bankrupt. I want to draw your attention to the picture that occurred when the prospect of finding natural gas and oil in the Greek Cypriot part and Israel's island of Cyprus was serious. The Greek Cypriot part created 13 oil and gas-seeking parcels in its region. The government first said that Turkey had the right to the 12th part, and then expressed that the Turkish Cypriot part had the right to the oil, and it did not get results. On the other hand, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was in a position to reject the existence of the Turkish Republic. The Piri Reis ship, which was supposed to be sent to the Maritime Museum, was sent to search for oil in the region. On a ship that was barely sunk, Turkey showed that it did not take its own claims seriously. This incident has shown that in the last ten years, there has been no need to build an oil-seeking ship. After the fiasco here, a ship could be bought for $130 million. More important than any of these, while the Greek community has spent ten years trying to deny the existence of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, while the government has spent ten years searching for new sources of energy in its unique economic zone, so there is no account of finding oil in the unique economic region of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, as the Greeks have done in their own regions. Rauf Denktas had spent his shift in Cyprus to neutralize him and make an illegitimate individual president who rejected his own state. The Annan Plan, which lost ground in Turkey, was busy pushing the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to its citizens. Cypriot national hero Rauf Denktash had died from his grave, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus had been pushed aside, the AKP had been blessed, but the state of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Turkey had been removed from the eastern Mediterranean. Everyone needs to think seriously about the incident with the Blue Marmara, which resulted in the removal of Turkey from eastern Mediterranean oil and energy sources and the removal from the region. With what the Prime Minister calls a planned cause of war, who and why were involved in the insult of Turkey? This is one of the most serious examples of what happens when what happens with a non-national policy confronts the non-energy policy. There are three ways a country can solve its energy demand, lawmakers. These are, in turn, one: to meet the need from its own resources, as in countries with rich energy sources. Second: to have large national oil companies, to meet the need for oil from their search in other areas. Third: with appropriate economic policies and improved economic structures, whether he owns the reserve or not, meets his needs with imports without opening the deal. In which of these, it is necessary to ask which one of them has been able to gain distance and success for ten years. When we look at it this way, it will be necessary to look at which of these three solutions this bill highlights and which one it provides a solution to, and in that regard it will have to be evaluated. So, when we look at it from this point of view, it reveals that the law in the future is not a law that can seriously solve Turkey's serious energy deficit. The question should be asked: Is taking our national wealth, offering the stranger a great deal of ease, taking one-eighth of one-eighths of it, and giving it seven-tenths of it to solve energy dependency, or is it an economic goal to reach the energy resources of other countries, which are their national wealth, and give them one-eightth of it, or to solve the problem? You have to take a look at this, and from this point on, you have to evaluate the status of the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership. Instead of using a multinational company that has had great experience in Turkey and in its own capacity as a major oil company and taking advantage of Turkey's energy deficit instead of taking advantage of it, it shows that it is not a proper law to open and sell it to privatisation. In this respect, rather than passing this law this way, we believe that the Turkish Oil Association must first be strengthened in what we call the Anonymous Partnership, and in this respect, the ground must be set for a new, serious oil law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0186par0077	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. The first word for the individuals on the first chapter is Mr. Necati Özensoyın. Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0187par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the Turkish Oil Law Bill 450 rows. I salute you all. Every time I'm on the stand, or when energy issues come up, I always point out that energy policies should be national policies, they should be over partying. So if there's no energy, there's nothing. So, with all this work being done, with the bill coming in, I think it's important to consider what the opposition parties have said in the commissions here. But in this period, especially when we look at the laws on energy policies and energy, the changes in the Power Market Law, about natural gas markets, about renewable energy, especially the Turkish Oil Law, as stated, are laws from 1954. Now, even though some things have become conflicted, it doesn't seem like a bill that will give us much change or oil exploration or production activity. Here, as poor as Turkey is hydrocarbons, I think we should conduct these search and production activities in Turkey with the power of a government and a strong company. Look, when we looked back at the history of Turkish Oil, it was operating in a position that included PETKIM (PETKIM) and the first 500 companies in the world. Today, they are no longer taking seriously companies that produce under 100,000 barrels a day in the world, so our most important producer in Turkey, our seeker, Turkey Oil, can produce 70,000 barrels of oil per day, including oil fields abroad. When we look at the search -- you're always getting 2002, and I'll take it -- we're able to produce oil abroad with agreements from abroad until 2001, and we can't produce even one barrel of oil with the latest deals or activities. In 1996, we were producing 50,000 barrels of oil in the country, while Turkish Oil fell to up to 28,000 barrels. Later, Turkey's Oil, which produced 50,000-odd barrels in 18 dollars in the past, was able to reach only 34,000 barrels in $100 today. The reason why this came from 28,000 to 34,000, as I put it, is because the oil barrel was $18 that day, and the non-economic wells were back on line. If you look at a balance sheet of Turkish Oil right now, although these balance sheets are always classified. So as you can see here -- I don't understand why they're secret -- in this law, we've got all the articles here, one by one, how many wells do we have, how much oil do we produce per well, and everything is clearly written here, but we're doing a very different kind of audit, not while we're overseeing Turkish Oil in the CSI Commission, but in a way that even the press is being released, so we don't have a secret meeting, because we don't have a very different way, not in a way where there are sworn officers. So, in summary -- so it's hard to put things together every five minutes -- we have no choice but to strengthen Turkey's Oil and make it an important company in the world. And this law, I'm afraid, does not bring it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0188par0089	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. On behalf of his subjects, Edirne MP Mr. Kemal Millendereli. Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0189par0093	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the number 450 oil bill on behalf of my own. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, before we discuss this law, I would like to address the future of general oil production and oil production in the world. Now, first of all, most of the countries outside the OECD are expected to increase global energy demand by 39 per cent by 2030. In 2030, it was also expressed by the International Energy Agency that 81 per cent of the global energy demand would be derived from fossil fuels. Fast growth in the rest of the world, especially in Asian countries, will increase the need for oil, while our dependence on oil will continue mainly on the Middle East. The export of oil from OPEC countries in the Middle East also appears to be increasing considerably. According to projections of our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Turkey's need for oil will rise to twice what it is today, just ten years from now, according to the projections of our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Now, we know who produces as much oil as we do, and we know that 48 percent of the world's proven oil reserves are in the Middle East, or about 74 percent in Central Asia, as well as in our 2,000km circle. One important issue is that America is one of the three major countries that produce oil today, but China consumes twice as much oil as it produces; China consumes three times as much as India, four times as it produces; developed countries such as Japan, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands will continue their dependence on oil without producing any oil in the next decade. Why am I telling you this? Because the countries that are using oil heavily do not have sufficient resources, it also causes economic and actual wars on the planet. So in the Middle East, the blood spilled in North Africa, the impacts, the wars, the riots are based on the desire to dominate the oil supply of these imperial states. During the Cold War, the war between Iran and Iraq, the Kuwaiti of Saddam, the invasion of Iraq of the United States, and finally the Arab Spring, the result of the struggle to gain complete control over oil. As I just shared, energy trade in these areas will reach twice the current volume by 2030, according to estimates by the International Energy Agency. So, where are we in this? We're in the middle of this picture. We don't have rich beds known in oil and natural gas. The new law laid out in this framework should serve our existing resources for better, healthier evaluation, but we have serious concerns about it. I'm going to share with you what we have to say about these concerns in my next talks. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0190par0102	Thank you. We're going to question-answer. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0191par0105	Mr. President, thank you. Now, when the Greeks and the Israelis began to search for oil off Cyprus, we sent the Barbaros Hiktin Pasha ship. What is the fate of this ship? Turkey's Oil Incorporated Association bought a ship for $130m. This ship is very expensive, its actual cost is around $90 million... according to what criteria? What's the current status of this ship? Is Turkey's Oil Incorporated Partnership now searching for oil on this ship? In addition, is there a search warrant for Turkey's Petroleum Association in northern Iraq, where Barzani is located? Is there one in the maliki area? What's their field? How old was it? Why are Turkish Oil being privatized by removing it from the state?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0192par0110	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0193par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we are one of the most expensive gas and motors in the world. Turkey has been one of the most leading countries for years. It's not because we import gas and motors from other countries. The reason is a continuous increasing taxation on fuel in Turkey, TV and VAT. Do you intend to make a change in this fuel policy in Turkey's case of becoming one of the cheapest or cheapest countries in Europe when we remove the OTV and VAT? Or is it at least possible to remove the EVT? May I have your opinion? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0194par0114	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0195par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this is Ceyhan Energy Development Industries, you know, very important to Adana. Adana is the first province of Turkey in unemployment. With investments to be made here, it should have been a very serious investment, but you haven't done anything since 2006. Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister came there, talking about billions of dollars in investments, and the next industry and the 5-10 billion dollars a year would come back there, but you haven't nailed a nail since 2006. There, as far as I know, has been an investment demand for the Doğan Group, an investment demand for Bizarrooglu, an investment request for SOCAR from Azerbaijan, and you have not met any demands. Why did you take such a negative view of Adana? Does it have any effect on Ceyhan City Hall being at the National Movement Party? In 2006, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister came to invest $10 billion...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0194par0118	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0196par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as we all know, the need for energy in our country and in this context the need for metallurgical coal is increasing. Metalurgic coal in Turkey is produced by Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation. However, since your arrival in power in 2002, production and employment rates have declined at the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation. In 2002, coal production, 2.2 million tonnes, was reduced to 1.5 million tonnes, while the number of workers was reduced from 16,000 to 10,000. Therefore, before the 2011 elections, your MPs promised our people 2,500 workers, but so far this hiring has not happened. Although the Turkish Taşkomömü Foundation has a norm staff of 14,500 people and there are no workers left to produce, why has there been no hiring at Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation so far?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0194par0121	Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0197par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister a question about the third nuclear power plant. In recent days, an agreement was made with the Japanese on the second nuclear plant. Mr. Secretary, I'm curious about the third nuclear power plant in my department -- I'm a 40-year-old MP -- is named after the Needle on the Black Sea as one of our third reserve locations for the third nuclear power plant. Of course, Pinaada is a place with Istranca forests, here are subasan forests, with the potential for tourism. I want to know in the short term of the third nuclear power plant, what is the ministry's project, the government's project, what is your projection? Is there a location for the third nuclear plant, or will it be? Do you think it's a good place for a third nuclear plant in the needle? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0198par0126	Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0199par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what results have been reached in the ongoing search for oil and gas in the Eastern Mediterranean? My second question: What are the agreements between the regional Kurdish administration and Turkey in northern Iraq? Would you mind explaining these, please? Third, does your government have any idea of the privatisation of TPAO in the middle or long term? I'd like to learn that for the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0200par0132	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0201par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, about the eastern Mediterranean gas, you know, the Greeks, Israel and an American company have made deals. By the way, we didn't get into the whole Blue Marmara thing. Now, in this new process with Israel, what progress has been made? Is there a positive change in the subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0202par0136	Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0203par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this is the flagship of our oil world, our Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership abroad, and how many percent of this partnership, in general, are there any revenues from his work abroad? How much is that? We're also reading from the press that Turkish companies making oil deals with the northern Iraqi administration are disturbing the Baghdad administration. This issue is also criticised by the U.S. government. Is there a positive consensus on this issue during the Prime Minister's American talks?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0204par0140	Mr. Secretary, please. I've completed seven and a half minutes to eight, you have eight minutes.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0205par0142	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by greeting all of you with respect and love. Regarding Cyprus and seismic searches, particularly the search of the controversial economic field of Cyprus, and the issue of whether we sent our ship there or not, Barbaros Iştin Pasha has been mentioned that the ship we bought for $130m could be cheaper. I'm, in fact, saying that, under the same circumstances, if there's a 90 million-dollar ship, we can get a second ship. If there's a ship he knows, we can call it in, we can buy it right away. That, of course, has criteria. It's one of the top 10 advanced ships in the world that we're taking right now. It's about that, as I said, I think it's best to bring concrete suggestions to us rather than subjective comments like this. What did we do in northern Iraq? As TPAO, what was done in the area of Maliki, the central government of Iraq? Dear friends, over the past three years, there have been some tenders under the name of the service agreements. In the world, a short list was created, and certain capacitys were created, and we received $25 billion in work with five separate consortium members. So in our partnerships with different countries -- there's Russia in it, there's South Korea, there's countries like Kuwait -- we got $5.5 billion for our shares in areas like Siba, in areas like Basra, south of Iraq. Right now, our investment in both our shares and our partners continues. There's no problem with that so far as we've been given, but the opposite is that some of the spending is going on in this way. What, though, is happening in northern Iraq? You have to look at the whole logic of this. If Iraq is a whole -- which it is -- there's no distinction between the south and the north and the east and the west. All revenues are made within the scope of the proportions determined by the Central Iraqi government, so it's a fact that the Central Iraqi government has taken 83% and 17 per cent of Iraq and the northern part of Iraq and decided to do it themselves, but they haven't passed the hydrocarbon law yet. So, what's TPAO doing here? TPAO continues its work in the Central Iraqi government. In northern Iraq, there is no attempt by TPAO (TPAO) in this sense. I'm told the gas engine is expensive because of the tax. I'm going to have to use my time in a series. Yes, it's a tax issue. We need to talk about this, of course, with our Finance Minister, whether or not the STVs are downloaded. The investment in Ceyhan, of course, has nothing to do with the development of the municipality there. We need to speed up the work of our Ministry of Industry with him, and I agree that he's on his way. So, what is TTK's interest in hiring, by the way? Dear friends, the businesses of the TTK, meaning a social project there, are normally damaged almost every year in Zonguldak. Once, as a vein and as a coal bed, it's different from the usual coal deposits in the world. We're talking about the model over there, and if there's a model on the house that we can take without harming it, we're working on it. There's no place that's been detected yet about the location of the third nuclear plant. A study of the location of the third nuclear plant continues, with Japan, where we now sign the agreement of the second nuclear plant, which will last for about two years. If you hear any mention of anything in these two years, I can safely say it's a bit subjective and speculative. What, though, is being done in the search for oil in the eastern Mediterranean? We are now entering a tender in Lebanon, where TPAO entered the short list. At the same time, Turkey will continue to engage as a legal state in areas where there are no controversial areas of economic space. There are still areas in Mersin that we will take out; Antalya, as you know, is being done by Shell. You know there are two different models about the privatisation of TPAO. The first, as in the Turkish Airlines model, is that 51 per cent of it is open to the public; and the other, with different companies, are interviewing companies to conduct operations related to operations in the third world, in third countries. Of course, nine licenses are found in the Mediterranean, outside of the waters. Well, there's been a tension in relations with the Blue Marmara, there's been a blockage, and how does that get out of hand after an apology? We can say: Of course, energy projects are not a reason for Israel's apology here, but there may be one of the consequences. We believe that while political feasibility has developed, economic feasibility will follow. We've been watching the process very carefully, and we've been watching what can be done in that sense. We, at the moment, have no offer to the Israeli government, no formal discussion of energy. As I said, the process of this is carefully monitored. How much of the income of ▪TPAO is available abroad, and how is a share of it now being taken?) A significant portion of its income, dear friends, stems from the income of Shahdeniz-1 and international operations. Nearly $1.8 billion in revenues from the previous year -- I can give you the exact numbers now -- 1.2 billion from our operations abroad. Now, our daily production of 48 to 49,000 barrels is equivalent to that in the country, and our work on it continues abroad. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0206par0157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0207par0158	Mr. Secretary, are you producing 48 thousand barrels in the country?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0205par0159	48-50K, changing.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0206par0160	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on the first article, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act bill that's being discussed. Article 2 of the Article 2. This is the Law in its joke; we propose and propose that the declaration after the declaration be changed in order to create a national oil policy. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray of Kemal Millendere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 450 Orders of the Turkish Oil Act. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Bahattin Şeker Mesut Dedeoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Simsek The purpose of this Law is to ensure that the oil resources of the Republic of Turkey are sought, developed, and produced economically, in line with national interests. (2) This law covers the procedures and grounds for the regulation of oil search and production activities in Turkey, the incentives, the supervision, the collection of information and data needed for search and production, the evaluation, and the introduction to use. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 450 Rows of the Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Reverend Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0208par0188	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0206par0189	Read the reason. First item of the bill. The principle of compliance with the national interests set as a goal in the joke is completely in conflict with the bill. 2 of the same substance. The joke says that search and production activities will be encouraged, which has already shown that the bill will serve the purposes of the private sector and capital. Tax advantages and arrangements to strengthen the hands of consortiums will only benefit the owners of capital and oil companies. The country's underground resources will not be of any benefit to the people of Turkey or to the state. Hence, 1. The item must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0209par0194	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0206par0195	We're doing roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Pine, Mr. Special, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Acar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tülkuloğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the 450 Orders of the Turkish Oil Act. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends The purpose of this Law is to ensure that the oil resources of the Republic of Turkey are sought, developed, and produced economically, in line with national interests. (2) This law covers the procedures and grounds for the regulation of oil search and production activities in Turkey, the incentives, the supervision, the collection of information and data needed for search and production, the evaluation, and the introduction to use. Mr. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0210par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0211par0217	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0206par0218	Mr. Halaçoglu, please come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Teacher, what's with the laptop?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0212par0221	He'll speak in evidence...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0206par0222	Great. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0213par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, yes, I've come with a laptop, so from 1989 to 1992, during my State Archives General Directorate, I found quite a few maps of oil wells in the archives, especially made by the Germans. It is clear that almost all of the events that took place during the First World War were based on the desire to dominate these oil fields. As a matter of fact, while the Ottoman Empire was building its famous Baghdad Railway Line, it was made for free by the Germans, and it was only accepted as a German economic field 15km from both sides of the railway. At that time, a map was made during Abdulhamid -- and I have copies of maps from our originals -- 20 oil well districts from Diyarbakır to Hakkari (to Diyarbakır), which had been identified as Diyarbakır, Mardin, Bismil, Hazro Tea, Sinan, Batman Tea, Dicle, Midyat, Bedran, Bitlis, Tulan, Sidart, Habur, Findik, Cizre. Now, in fact, there were many other maps like this. I think, you know, to be more economical, you have to look at wells like this, run in the past. As a matter of fact, during World War I, when the Russians formed the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution and left Anatolia, when they emptied the Eastern Anatolian Region, it was said that the oil wells they had run themselves in the Van area had covered them with sheep wool and set their place to use them when they came back. I had sent them to Turkish Oil at that time, but there was no application for them in the days after that. But, what's interesting is, of course, that once we're out of Turkey's borders, almost all the oil wells in Iraq today are similar to the oil wells on those maps. So I think that maps of those oil wells that are being prepared can also be re-examined with today's technology to achieve a good result. Therefore, there is no doubt that serious research on this issue will be done, and there will be an oil extraction in Turkey that may be sufficient for our needs. In fact, as far as it's concerned, energy, oil, is still at the root of the events that took place in the Middle East today. Because if you look at the oil reserves in Middle Eastern countries and Turkish states, including Libya, it is known that 70 percent of the world's oil has been removed from these areas. So, given that the developed states of America, the developed countries of the Far East, as well as the countries of China -- in the first place -- provide all the oil needs from the Middle East, the cause of the turmoil in the Middle East will be much clearer. You're going to say: "Maybe there could have been more trouble because there was no oil in Turkey, but it could have been the other way around. When you have oil, when you're not dependent outside, you do a great task in the event that the money you spend there turns into investment. I want to make another point, Mr. Minister: The 1926 Ankara Agreement signed with England and 10 percent of the oils of Mosul and Kerkuk, Iraq, were given to Turkey for 25 years. Turkey received 3.5 million pounds of this, with 2 million pounds left. That oil is worth 60 billion dollars today, and I'll remind you that. Turgut Özal was out of the budget at the time, and I'm finding it useful to re-settle it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0214par0231	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act bill that's being discussed. Article 2 of the Article 2. This is the Law in its joke; we propose and propose that the declaration after the declaration be changed in order to create a national oil policy. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0215par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0216par0241	Mr. Kemal Milldereli...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0214par0242	Here you go, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0217par0244	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on oil bill 450 rows. I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers, the 1st Article (1) of this bill states that the purpose of this Law is to ensure that the oil resources of the Republic of Turkey are searched, developed, and produced in accordance with national interests. This is a very accurate goal, but basically, it is intended to direct them to investment in our country, by attracting active interest in international oil companies for research and production activities that we can't do with our own means. However, Turkish Oil, the flagship in the oil world of the Republic of Turkey, includes the provisions that will reduce the anonymous partnership. The major countries have national oil companies, such as Brazil's Petrobras, Azerbaijan's SOCAR, France's Total, Libyan NOC. I've just asked the Minister how much does the income of his activities abroad cost? Indeed, we have received a very impressive answer for me. As I recall, a total of $1.8 billion of TPAO's income comes from activities outside of the country, and we also produce the equivalent of our production in the country. These are indeed the proud numbers for such a national company. But, of course, we need to develop it. In addition to shrinking our company, which produces about 76 per cent of our oil, we need to work to increase its activities inside and outside, providing the necessary support for it, while this bill narrows down its resources and puts TPAO into a stressful process. We think it would be appropriate for the state to maintain oil and gas-related research, search, business licenses, so it is important to improve potential areas in areas such as Iraq, not only for domestic activities of the Turkish Oil Anonymous Association, but also for foreign activities, as we have discussed earlier. Our need for the existence of a national and powerful company is more vital than ever, not just for economic reasons, but for geopolitical reasons. In this regard, recent developments in the Middle East show the need for jealous ownership of Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0218par0250	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 2 there are three motions, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the 450 Orders of Turkish Oil Law Article (1). We would like to introduce and propose that the next bell be added after the (m) mesh of the joke should be identified according to this. N) TPAO: Turkey Oil Anonymous Partnership Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı You've brought Lightning Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd edition of the 450-Selected Oil Act. Article 1. We provide and propose the addition of the nets to the joke (ii), jj (jj) and kk). Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray of Kemal Millendere A motive: the state of war and natural disaster, jj) Non-traditional search and production: the process of taking gas and oil out of non-lethal reservoirs, gas hydrates, coal-generated gases, market price: the nearest port or refinery with a destination for crude oil, and in natural gas, the sale price for distribution companies or free consumers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Mr. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0219par0282	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0218par0283	Read the reason. The definitions in this article indicate who will use the country's underground resources for the purpose of the first article. The open field defines the activities of private sectors, capital owners and consortiums in areas that are open, looking for research permits, seekers, business licenses, joint representatives and capital assets. These definitions show that the use of the country's underground resources will be in the service of oil companies and the role of the public is limited. The item must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0220par0286	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0218par0287	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd edition of the 450-Selected Oil Act. Article 1. We provide and propose the addition of the nets to the joke (ii), jj (jj) and kk). Mehmet Ali Sesame (Izmir) and his friends. A motive: the state of war and natural disaster, jj) Non-traditional search and production: the process of taking gas and oil out of non-lethal reservoirs, gas hydrates, coal-generated gases, market price: the nearest port or refinery with a destination for crude oil, and in natural gas, the sale price for distribution companies or free consumers. Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0221par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0218par0300	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0222par0302	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on Article 2 of Turkish Oil Act 450. I salute you all. Dear friends, when you say oil, the first word we all think of is important. It's really important to all of us, but we're having trouble making it concrete, and we're having trouble realizing it. Otherwise, we know it's important, but we have a problem with how to realize it. A hundred years ago, we were a country with 70 percent of the world's known oil deposits, and a hundred years ago, we had 70 percent of the world's known oil deposits in the late Ottoman period. When we lost the war, we had no oil fields. We've linked the cause of the war or the fall of the Ottomans to ethnic reasons, religious reasons. These were important too, but the real reason was oil, it was very important, we didn't see the significance. It wasn't that oil was in the private sector or in the public sector, it was that we had difficulty understanding the importance of oil at that time. But at those times... it seemed very interesting to me, and I'd like to share it with you. Allow me to read from a collection of our former ministers, Mr. Hikmet Uluğbay. See, in 1903, British Foreign Minister Lord Lansdowne expressed a very important political view in a speech at the House of Lords in May 1903, 1903, I point out that no other force in the Gulf of Iran, other than himself, can build a base in the sea or set up a sealed port, and considers such a phenomenon as a ignominious act of self-interest. With that dignity, he will stop such an enterprise by mobilising all the resources he has. They can say these words in 1903, and they can express that view. We never had such an opinion on that date. Again, in 1916, the director general of the British Naval Information Administration, he says: "The oily land under the control of England must not fall into the hands of a foreign state or foreign partnership under any circumstances. We don't even know what oil is at that time. There's no oil in our books or our subjects, I'm afraid. Now, when that happens, of course, you don't see it, you don't know it, you get caught up in other things, you lose a lot of things in between inconsequentialities. There are many issues in the compilation of Mr. Uğbay. Later, in the 2000s, strategies were developed in similar ways. Mr. Secretary, when you were talking about the general part of the bill, you said -- I took it out of the transcripts -- you said, "If the Constitution is guaranteed and doesn't matter, then we said that we're going to put this word right now. So we've shown that this article, which was put as a veto motive in 2007, would not have noticed this time, but it's very important to put the word "nearly" into the word "national" in 2007. It is important that this is the way it is, rather than whether there is the word "National" or not. I would prefer that this side of the bill be highlighted, that the word "immunity" has entered the cells of every clause of the bill, I would argue, and I would expect you to defend it. So it really doesn't matter if there's a word for oil, if we can't internalize it, if we can't understand it, if we can't see how important oil is, then really, there's no point in putting it in. But with that logic, then the oil doesn't mean anything either, Mr. Secretary, I've really taken your word for it. Because oil has determined the past century, you know. Most of the maps of the past century were determined by oil. It appears that oil will determine the 21st century. Oil will hold its importance for a long time and mark the years ahead. Therefore, we should not underestimate the issue. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0223par0310	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the 450 Orders of Turkish Oil Law Article (1). We would like to introduce and propose that the next bell be added after the (m) mesh of the joke should be identified according to this. N) TPAO : Turkey Oil Anonymous Partnership, Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0224par0320	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0223par0321	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0225par0323	Mr. President, I have been promised a amendment motion on Article 2 of the Turkish Oil Act. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this bill is essentially a bill aimed at dismantling this national oil company in the long term and then opening the way for privatisation -- as in other areas -- by removing the Turkish Oil Association, which has carried out more than 70 per cent of oil exploration and production activities in Turkey. Therefore, as long as the Turkish Petroleum Association of Oil is not part of this law, time will justify us, no matter how much the government argues it's a bill for national interests. For him, the motion is a motion to be added to the part of the bill, which is part of Article 2 of the bill as a definition of the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership, which was removed from the draft. If we don't place this here, then we'll see that the statement of Turkey's Oil Anonym Partnership is going to be in the air in the future, perhaps in some of the motions that the ruling party will give and our great Parliament will agree to. So this motion is a valid motion, that you will have the high council of honor. Precious lawmakers, Turkey is now a country that imports more than 90 per cent of its oil, but it is a country in the east of its eastern country, about two thirds east of its primary energy reserves, especially oil and natural gas sources, and it is also a country in the east of the eastern countries where energy consumption is about two-thirds of its country -- a country in which two-thirds of its countries are confluent. For him, this law is extremely important to Turkey. There should have been a bill, not only for the production of oil resources within our territory, but also for some arrangements to move the geopolitical position of Turkey as a gate zone. However, the contributions we want to make in both the Commission and the General Assembly, unfortunately, appear to be that the government will not participate again. During these draft talks -- my valued Commissioner friends will remember very well -- we couldn't get an official to speak on behalf of the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership. What is important for you here, arguing that the government does not need to speak to a unit that is rightly attached to it? We'd like to have your opinion. Even though we said so, government officials, Ministry officials, we speak on his behalf. They said we speak on his behalf. But we couldn't even share some of the facts on the Commission. Therefore, we must all make arrangements here to protect, strengthen, and survive international competition as our national company of Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership. Otherwise, we will all see this arrangement together if the International Oil Association of Turkey, which is no longer a chance of competing in the areas of international companies, passes through this form. I remind you again that our motion with these feelings and thoughts is important and that the declaration of the Anonymous Partnership of Turkey's Oil must be found in this bill, and I salute the Grand Assembly. I expect your support in our motion.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0226par0331	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 3 there are three proposals, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd edition of the current oil bill, 450 rows. At the end of its clause, we propose and provide that the following statement be added. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Hüseyin Aygün Ali İhsan İkturk of Kemal Millendere It is run by the Ministry of Governments and Savings, by the hands of independent and relevant organisations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Three of the 450 Orders of Turkish Oil Law. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Alim Işım Emin Haluk Ayhan Mesut Dedeoğlu You've brought Lightning Erkan Akçay Bahattin Sugar Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu The management of oil resources and resources in Turkey is under the government's rule and savings. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Three of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. Its oil sources in Turkey are under the government's rule and savings. The state uses its revenue from oil in the development of the least developed areas and provinces to be replaced by supply and offer. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0227par0364	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0226par0365	Read the reason. Turkey itself produces 6% of the oil it uses. When we look at Turkey's oil map, most of the oil produced was produced from socio-economically left behind provinces. Half the search warrants in Turkey are 7-13. It was given in Erzurum, Ağrı, Van, Siirt, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep and Hatay districts. Based on the Socio-Economic Development Order set by the Ministry of Development, the pain is 79 between 81 counties. Next up, Siirt 77. He's in line, and Van 75. He's in line. The same is true of other cities. Because oil is being removed and oil resources are being sought around here, the cities mentioned should be improved more, but Turkey has the opposite situation. There will be nothing more natural than that the cities that have oil resources, such as oil, will receive a share of the oil that has been extracted, or that the state will transfer some of its oil revenues here to remove the difference in development. The matter must be changed according to our proposal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Three of the 450 Orders of Turkish Oil Law. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends The management of oil resources and resources in Turkey is under the government's rule and savings. Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0228par0377	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0226par0378	Mr. Özensoy, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0229par0380	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. We have made a motion here that oil resources in Turkey be operated by the state at the same time. Now, from here, of course, I'd like to ask: is oil as strategic as the mines in Bor, and is it not in Law 2840? Besides, the meat mine is, in this sense, the SOC foundation. CSI agencies usually complain about legislation, argue that they can't do business because of legislation. But I congratulated the Eti Mine, the executives at every Commission meeting -- in the sixth year -- in the sixth year -- in which my friends at the CSI Commission know, because they have actually raised their share of the world by seriously fighting global forces and making it the most profitable institution in Turkey. In this sense, I think we can better assess our oil resources in this sense by strengthening Turkey's oils even more, as I said in my speech for myself, within the association of Turkey's Oil Anonymous. Now, from here, I'd like to point out that while this Oil Act is being discussed in the Commission, I've been involved in some of those negotiations. Turkey Oil was invited. Turkish Oil has been asked for information regarding the situation in Turkey. I made a promise there, and I said, "Please, don't show some numbers wrong or more at work by feeling that the company is being audited, the situation of the Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership, mirror this in the same way." But, unfortunately, I see that the information given in the Commission is being asked here, now, Mr. Secretary of State, the production in Turkey states that there are 48-49 thousand barrels per day. So I'm asking you from here: these are the numbers Turkey Oil gave us on the CIT Commission. Is that true, or is it true what the Minister said? They gave it to me over the years. Look, the years that we've reached the highest number are right here. During this period of power, we reached 30 million, 590,000 barrels of annual production in 2007. Of course, let me also say that oil production or what Mr. Minister is saying here at this time is that they're still doing natural gas production by converting it into an oil equivalent variable, so it's just that, if we just say oil production as a barrel, these numbers are going to go down even lower. Look, 12 million 115 thousand barrels were produced in 2011, and when you divide it, it doesn't even make 70,000 barrels, it comes with about 66,000 barrels from abroad. In Turkey, we're 33 to 34,000 barrels, as I've said. And these are numbers that come out including the oil equivalent value, the natural gas. The 2012 program is a little lower than 2011. Here's the data that's already been obtained. And again, when we look at the 2012 program, the international and domestic oil equivalent, see here, in the chart, the production of natural gas abroad and abroad, even though it's calculated as an oil equivalent value, it doesn't find another 70,000 barrels. So please, Mr. Secretary, the authorities, tell the truth, so we're not happy that things are going badly, so we'll do what we can to make sure they're okay. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0230par0386	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd edition of the current oil bill, 450 rows. At the end of its clause, we propose and provide that the following statement be added. Hüseyin Aygün (Tunceli) and his friends It is run by the Ministry of Governments and Savings, by the hands of independent and relevant organisations. Commission, do you agree? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EFFECTIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMITOR OF THE COMMISSION Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0231par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0230par0396	Mr. Ayday, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ayday clapped his hands at everyone. Is it that much applause? It's amazing. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0232par0400	Thank you very much. Before we explain the change we want to add to the end of Article 3 I'd like to start by reminding the Supreme Assembly that between May 17th and May 31st is a two-week anniversary of those lost in custody all over the world. On this Friday, the last day of this two weeks, the last day of the memorial week, people from Istanbul, and from various parts of Turkey, are 12 p.m. They're going to stand in front of the YKM, and they're going to demand that a public official act more seriously against a public official who claimed to be the perpetrator of 14 villagers lost in Derik, 1992 to 1994, and that this person be relieved of duty and tried. He's missing in custody, unfortunately, one of the statute of limitations in our law is that when 20 years are up, the perpetrator is saved and not considered a crime of humanity. However, these two weeks have been called the Week of Loss in custody, if I'm not mistaken all over the world for about fifteen years; sometimes in Argentina, sometimes in another country, and at one time in Diyarbakir. Therefore, I would like to remind all lawmakers that we are facing a very serious problem, as well as the Parliamentary Petroleum Act, which has a responsibility for the outcome of the 455 losses officially reported to the United Nations in Turkey, that we must act on their perpetrators. When I read the grounds of the law, the opposition, and the opposition, I saw that Ahmet Necdet Sezer had been mentioned a long time ago. Sezer, in a very interesting way, rejected this law five years ago on the grounds that it was against national interests. Now he's back on the Hill with far more severe convictions. A number of provisions are in the law, from the collapse of TPAO (TPAO) to long term privatisation, until national resources are fully opened to foreign companies. Of course, the word "nationalism" frightens a very large environment in Turkey, especially the AKP people. Unfortunately, a perception was created, as if everyone defending national interests were fascists, against fundamental rights and freedoms. I'm a nationalist, including Turkish Oil, not to be pushed around by national resources in a bigotry, but I'm a democratic citizen who defends all basic rights and freedoms. I can't accept the collapse of the TPAO, the work of subcontractors with TPAO, in order to support the formations in Iraq, to deal with foreign companies, to work in the entire Western household. I'm not at all surprised that the objections we have made in this way should be insulted by the nationalism, as well as by the minister's nonsensical responses in this session. We pay people with national resources, raise money in the army, feed orphans. So, TPAO, as a very weak institution, I think it had to be strengthened, but unfortunately in these discussions, it was branded as if nationalist is a bad thing. Now, let me continue with Sezer. When Sezer was President -- a really interesting man -- he resisted everything from the AKP. I remember, against all regulations that advocate the rights of public workers, another government bill came, passed, Sezer vetoed. The government, as if it was interested in KESK, which made it legal for officers to be fired -- as if there was no president -- because like a notary now, there was indeed a president then who sent him back to Chankaya again without any discussion. I was a lawyer of my own at Tunceli, and my legal knowledge was based on the fact that a law would be adopted for the second time if it was never played. Sezer did, perhaps for the first time in our history of law, something no president has ever done, sent the law back again. Sezer was such a nationalist. So it is my great honor to honor and honor such a nationalist in this House. I wish there were a lot of nationalists like that. Nationalists, you know, it's always the status quo against such developments, not the bureaucratic kind. We really all have national interests, and oil is the head of these fields, and it's one of the main things that paints Middle East with blood. So I feel responsible for expressing these thoughts here against this law, which will already be passed with numerical superiority. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0233par0408	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 4; I read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 4 of the 450 Numbered Oil Law bill in sight. Article 1. We offer and propose that the declaration of the 5th and 6th and 8th Articles of the joke be changed in accordance with the rights, no less than the following declarations. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray of Kemal Millendere Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 3 of the 4th Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. In the beginning of the joke, we propose and propose that the declaration be added by the Turkish Petroleum Association. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Bahattin Sugar Seyfettin Yılmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 4 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0234par0439	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0233par0440	Read the reason: Under Law 6326, the Council of Ministers divided Turkey into 18 Petroleum regions. In the drafting of the 450-line law, the two regions are being lifted, and Turkey is divided into two oil zones -- land and sea. That's 5, 6 and 8. Articles are edited. 4. A search warrant has been lifted with matter and other items referred to, while companies have been put in the same position as TPAO and the public advantage has been terminated. It's the fourth one to eliminate my public interest. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 3 of the 4th Turkish Oil Act, 450 rows. In the beginning of the joke, we propose and propose that the declaration be added by the Turkish Petroleum Association. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0235par0451	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0233par0452	Mr. Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0236par0454	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Article 4 of Turkish Oil Act 450. I salute you all. It is intended to be carried out by TPAO, our own national company, to conduct operations in military restricted areas and security areas in Article 4 (3). I hope you'll agree with our motion. Speaking of this motion, Mr. Minister, you know that Turkey is a very rich chrome-rich region; from time to time it was ranked as the first chrome production in the world, and from time to time it was ranked in the first three, and from time to time in the first four. But the biggest flaw here is that the chromium is exported as raw material. We all know that raw matter is another form of export exploitation. Today, the Toros, particularly in the triangle of my own constituency, Adana, have very important chrome beds, especially in the forest areas, in the triangles of Aladağ, Karaisan and Posanti counties. Although there are millions of dollars worth of facilities here, a price policy is set in the monopoly of China, which is the world's monopoly because we sell raw materials as raw materials. We all know that from time to time, the chrome mine found the $120-200-300 from time to time, but the route was entirely dependent on the Chinese government's policy. However, our own beds, one of the most important mines in the world, have suffered some difficulties as a result of the partnership of our chrome beds with foreigners. Especially a mining company in our Posant and Karaisan and Aladağ triangle -- I don't want to name it, Kayseri -- has become partners with the Chinese, 50 percent. They were producing chrome that was very important, but whatever happened, after a disagreement between the Chinese and the local company, there was a lot of casualties between the people of Karaisan, Aladağ, Posanne. Over a thousand workers who worked there had not received their wages for a long time; truckers, shipping companies did not receive their money; there were people who did spare parts, who provided bread and this, and companies didn't get their money. We're going through a period where we're already short of living, where we have three or five cents of money working in the mine, where their money is not paid. Mr. Secretary, whose responsibility is this? We've already indexed our resources, especially our underground resources, to a Chinese state. We're just making raw materials -- I just told you -- we're selling them to China for $120, so we have to buy them for $1,000, $1,200. It's a different method of exploiting resources that are so valuable, exporting them as raw materials in an environment where underground resources are so valuable. In this regard, our local industry must be strongly encouraged, our resources need to be used correctly, and they need to be controlled. We've been dealing with this for three or four months in my district. The Chinese came in, they partnered with a Kayseri firm, but for months, no workers can get their money, no truckers can get their money, no bakers can get their money out of the oven. Someone here is going to make millions of dollars, but our poor citizens, who are the original owner of that area, who have been waiting in those mountains for years, who have protected the forests, and who have been allowed to operate in the forests, will face these challenges. I think these things need to be resolved. Again, I just got interrupted. Look, this Ceyhan Energy Development Zone... we all know that our Adana region is struggling with unemployment, it's an economicly troubling area; it needs to be addressed. Here, in 2002, when we were the coalition government, the foundations were laid. Although Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister promised in 2005, in 2006, oil was flowing from Kerkok and Baku, but no refinery investments could be made, no petrochemistry investments could be made. The president said in his speech: "We will invest $10 billion in this place. Thousands of people will have jobs. He came to Adana with good news. So, Mr. Secretary, if this concerns your Ministry, whatever ministry it concerns, make these arrangements. Not a nail. There was a magnificent ceremony here in 2005, and not a nail has been struck in this area since then.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0237par0461	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 4 of the 450 Numbered Oil Law bill in sight. Article 1. We offer and propose that the declaration of the 5th and 6th and 8th Articles of the joke be changed in accordance with the rights, no less than the following declarations. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0238par0470	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0237par0471	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0239par0473	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 4th Amendment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when you say energy, life comes to mind; one of the elements of life's sustainability is energy. This energy is the source of life, but when you say energy in Turkey, oil, natural gas, coal and minerals come to mind. The Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership comes to mind, though, when it is called Petrol. Since 1954, we have been a national organization that has played a crucial role in the extraction and marketing of underground oil in Turkey. Now, with this bill, this bill brought in to promote oil exploration, our national interests are being ignored. This national side of Turkey's Oil Anonymous Partnership is being destroyed, and our underground resources are being wiped out in accordance with the principle of public interest operating and removal. Thus, the privatisation of Turkey's Oil Incorporated Partnership opens the way for the international monopoly to attract oil sources in Turkey. Today, we know that energy policies are now perceived not only as the economic element of a country, but as an element that constitutes the security axis of the country's foreign policy. So today, the Middle East has become the source of war. The main reason why the United States and other European countries coveted the Middle East is the source of energy and oil here. Dear lawmakers, when we look at this bill, the decision of the Council of Ministers to find foreign state companies in oil activities is being lifted, and the control of foreign states in search and production activities is being cleared. Again, the right to search and obtain a business license for the state belongs to TPAO. Why is the decree passed, and I do not understand it. Again, the requirement for technical competence and experience to be sought for an oil-seeking permit is being lifted, opening the way for licenses for incompetent companies. The tax, which oil companies are paying with the current law, is reduced to 55 per cent total tax bases by 40 per cent and is cut off from state revenues due to increases in tax rates. Dear lawmakers, this oil, I just said, is a strategic event, and it really is the source of wars today. Now, in a law like this, it's very wrong to think about national interests and to bring it in this way when it is necessary to use it effectively. Now, we all know that there was an organization called this Turkish Oil Anonymous Partnership, which is also called the TPIC. This TPIC is a company owned by TPAO, with $350 million in capital added to its $150 million capital and transferred to BOTASH earlier in 2013. Without the permission of the Ministry of Energy, the TPIC is able to send personnel abroad under the name of work, on the initiative of the General Manager. A state minister and the son of our deputy prime minister work under the name of the advisor in this TPIC. It seems that the reason TPIC's capital has been raised from 150 million dollars to $500 million is because our deputy prime minister's son is allowed to roam freely abroad. Now, I'm curious, and I'm saying from this bench, how long has this Deputy Prime Minister's son gone abroad, and what has he gone to do? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit04spe0240par0485	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit05spe0240par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 450. The commission is here. The government is here. In Article 5 there are three motions, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 5 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 1. We keep this information hidden in the joke. It is responsible for keeping this information confidential. We propose that we change it in the form of supply and order. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Kemal Millendereli Haluk Eyidoğan Ali İhsan İkturk Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the minimum declaration for eight years before the declaration of Article 5 of Turkish Oil Law 450. Alim Işım Emin Haluk Ayhan Mesut Dedeoğlu Erkan Akçay Cemaletdin Simsek Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 5 of the 450 Orders Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit05spe0241par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit05spe0240par0032	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to be investigated and used by companies in an unlimited competitive environment of oil, which is the country's source. One of the things that attracts public resources is the 5th. The item must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit05spe0242par0035	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit05spe0240par0036	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0240par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Mr. Idris Baluken and his friends was not enough to vote on the 5th article of the 450th Amendment. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: Those who don't agree... It's not accepted, there's enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the minimum declaration for eight years before the declaration of Article 5 of Turkish Oil Law 450. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0243par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0240par0015	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0244par0017	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on Article 5 of Turkish Oil Act 450. I salute you all. This motion aims to preserve this information for longer if the General Directorate asks for it. We expect your support in this motion. You know, when I was speaking about the proposal I gave in Article 4, I mentioned the importance of these chrome mines, and it was really understood that these chrome mines were in the monopoly of China in particular, that only China had determined the prices in the world, and that there was a Kayserili firm about my territory, which was associated with the Chinese, and that the Kurmel family, which came out of its hard work, with its charitable investments in the mining sector. I got a lot of calls from my constituency. We don't mean the mines run by the Kurmel family. Now, Mr. Secretary, when you say Kayseri, when all the mining companies are Kayseri, what we mean are the Riots. Riots, you know, take the 2nd place of chrome exports in Turkey, at the export point in Turkey. This Riots firm partnered with the Chinese two years ago. It's a region very rich in chrome reserves in my own district, Posanti-Aladağ and the Caribbean triangle. After they became partners with the Chinese, there were over a thousand people working in this factory, trucks shipping. This was also the way to provide a variety of goods such as bread for this region, from the dough and the Hamidijah, my own village. But whatever happened, because of their trouble with the Chinese, or because of their partnership, for about six or seven months, employees have been unable to receive their wages, their severance pay, truckers can't get their money, our bread-giving, and the money-giver can't get their money. Again, this area is a poor area. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, how long do you have the right to intervene here, but the people who live there are really very victimized families. Some measures must be taken at the point of resolving this victimhood. So he's going to own those fields, he's going to work as a worker in that area, he's going to work for five or six months, and he's not going to get paid. These are our counties, our villages, and my village, at 1,300 altitudes, at the foot of the Toros, where the poor poverty weighs heavily. As Minister, I think it's up to you to defend their rights. I'd appreciate it if you'd take a look at this. From here, I feel the need to correct our viewers who are watching us at the beginning of the screen: the Kurmel family has actually invested millions of dollars in that region, although they were actually in the mining industry, although they were 80 years old -- the Kaiseri, the Kaiseri, and the Kayseri -- although they are 80 years old. With the money he made there, he's a businessman who gives scholarships to his children, including schools in the area, hospitals, police stations, pensions, and forest villagers. I want this fixed here, too. Once again, Mr. Secretary, as I have received your word on this occasion, I ask you, again, specifically. You must look after this Ceyhan Energy Development Zone. Ceyhan Energy is a region in Çukurova region that can be an important centre of the region, not only for Adana, but for Hatay, Osmaniye, Gaziantep, Mersin, Urbana. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a single nail in this area since 2006. Look, the first project here was in 2002 when the National Movement Party was the coalition government. But after that, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President made some promises, but nothing was done. Look, Adana is in public -- and I particularly urge you to look into this -- I've asked you a lot of international companies to invest in that area -- it's as if they're talking about some work to open the way for Çuk. When the investment comes in that area -- whether it comes in or not -- whoever comes in, but let the region rise, let the country rise. I'd like you to focus on that in particular. I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0245par0025	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 5 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 1. We keep this information hidden in the joke. It is responsible for keeping this information confidential. We propose that we change it in the form of supply and order. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Your Honor, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0246par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0245par0034	Mr. Eyidoğan, please come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0247par0036	Mr. President, in the session just now, Mr. Kamer, when the Minister answered the Young One's question, he said: "Mr. Young, if there's a boat for $90 million, we'll get it." Mr. Secretary, you didn't get it. So, if we go back a little bit, not to the 2007s, to the 2009s, to inform you and to inform you of the valuable MPs -- the University of 9 September Marine Sciences and Technology Institute -- who ran Piri Reis, who sailed and worked, you know -- had accepted a project to the DPT in 2007. I was on the jury, and with that accepted project, DPT... this project was about designing a ship that would be useful for their technology at the time, and the current Chakabey ship would be developed and prepared for deep-sea geology and geophysical research. DPT promised to approve the project, but whatever happened, the project didn't happen; it's one. Two: Norway's SCAN Geophysical company was building a ship for China in 2009; it was 80 metres long, 20 metres wide, and was equipped with the latest marine seismic technology. It had everything on it. He was going to do two-dimensional, three-dimensional seismic study at sea. It's called the EMPRESS. Education and research have accepted the transfer to MTA (MTA) for 80 million dollars, guaranteed by the knowledge-how, and you have not received it. So, he came, he came, he came, he came, he came, he came, he was in Cyprus, he was in the Greek part of the study, and, you know, because Piri Reis was out of his capacity, and so he developed that way, and you said, "We're going to take a ship." By then, of course, there's a ship in Istanbul that's now in the sleigh, and there's an MTA. There's no telling when the second ship will be finished. You bought a ship last year. How many million dollars did you buy it for, Minister? You bought it for $130 million. In 2009, you bought a ship with the same quality as you didn't get for 80 million dollars for $130 million. God bless the sellers. Now, Mr. Secretary, there are foreign personnel aboard this ship. I think, according to the contract, for five years, foreign geologists, geophysicists will work, and our geologists and geophysicists will train. Minister, in 1997 I was head of Geophysical Engineering at İstanbul Technical University. We've run out of feathers, we'll buy ships, we'll do these things in Turkey, we've got staff, we're growing them. For as long as I can remember, the departments of oil engineering in universities can't find enough teachers. Experts from the United States, Ph.D.s come in, and because they can't get projects in the oil engineering department, because they can't develop industrial-university relationships, they end up going to Arabia, going to one of the Arab countries, going to America, going to Asia. So that's the situation. Now you're making a change towards privatisation with this law in TPAO, and you're saying that we're going to increase the search for oil, natural gas, and we're going to increase production. It's not very convincing. We have only one nation left, the national football team now. I think this company will also lose its national property, and some time later -- you say we'll work with foreigners -- foreigners will inspect a lot of things; our geologists and geophysicists will be out of work again; you will investigate our seas with foreign geologists and geophysicists. In the last decade, you've given 400 million dollars to foreign ships in our seas, ships doing seismic research. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0248par0042	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 6 there are three proposals, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of Turkish Petroleum Act 450, which will be issued in advance of the article 4 of Article 6 of the Article 450. Scholar Light Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Cemalettın Simsek Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 3. The four and five and six below the joke. We offer and propose that the jokes be added, that other jokes be identified accordingly. Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Aytun Çiray of Kemal Millendere A private sector corporate person is one-fifty on land and in territorial waters. One hundred percent of the sea outside of the 000-scale padta or territorial waters. Of the 5,000-scale pafta, the maximum number is six; the public will have nine search licenses at the most. A total of 1/50 on land and in territorial waters, the number of search licenses available to public officials. It's a total of 1/100 at sea. It can't get up to ten times the number of palettes on a thousand scale. (5) The total of the area of search areas achieved within the same region by real and legal individuals, including more than 25 per cent of a corporate personality or an important part of your wife, or by direct or indirectly having the authority to decide, control or appoint those responsible, cannot exceed three hundred and thirty-six thousand acres on land, or six hundred and six hundred acres of business territory. Abandonment of areas that exceed the General Directorate of Petroleum Affairs is required. (6) No real and corporate personality is 4 and 5. He cannot agree with another real and legal personality to deal directly or indirectly with the limitations contained in jokes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the 450 Rows of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0249par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0248par0075	Read the reason. In the search for oil, the benefits and rights that TPAO will have from becoming a public institution are terminated. TPAO has been reduced to domestic and foreign capital oil companies and has been forced to compete with domestic and foreign companies, which are more flexible and competitive than they are. This shows that TPAO will be behind private oil companies and open all the doors in front of the capital to the end. In the same way, the search time set by Law 6326 has been doubled in favour of foreign companies. So it's 6 that destroys public advantage and gives foreign companies a wide range of time and space. The item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the 450 Orders Numbered Oil Act. Article 3. The four and five and six below the joke. We offer and propose that the jokes be added, that other jokes be identified accordingly. Free Private (Manisa) and friends A private sector corporate person is one-fifty on land and in territorial waters. One hundred percent of the sea outside of the 000-scale padta or territorial waters. Of the 5,000-scale pafta, the maximum number is six; the public will have nine search licenses at the most. A total of 1/50 on land and in territorial waters, the number of search licenses available to public officials. It's a total of 1/100 at sea. It can't get up to ten times the number of palettes on a thousand scale. (5) The total of the area of search areas achieved within the same region by real and legal individuals, including more than 25 per cent of a corporate personality or an important part of your wife, or by direct or indirectly having the authority to decide, control or appoint those responsible, cannot exceed three hundred and thirty-six thousand acres on land, or six hundred and six hundred acres of business territory. Abandonment of areas that exceed the General Directorate of Petroleum Affairs is required. (6) No real and corporate personality is 4 and 5. He cannot agree with another real and legal personality to deal directly or indirectly with the limitations contained in jokes. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0250par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0248par0090	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0251par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our proposal, in a nutshell, aims to prevent a monopoly on search activities, and aims to protect the current state of the public company and not lose it to private companies. In fact, when technical details are left aside, we really expect this motion to be supported by everyone who's taken an oath in this House. And five minutes later, we're waiting for this support, and it's really bad. Congressmans, there was a Council of Ministers yesterday. The Council of Ministers is finished, Governor Arinc has gone before the cameras, and many groups in Turkey -- veterans, pensioners, workers, farmers -- were expecting something from the Council of Ministers. For example, the minimum wage, so that four parties don't get taxed on minimum wage. Maybe the government expected something to reflect on this Parliament's agreement on minimum wage without leaving it for a constitutional vote or a referendum or anything, but they waited for nothing. There's people hanging out at the age, for example. We're making an arrangement for those who hang out at this age. It creates a wave of excitement, but a Minister says that such a thing is not possible. In the Council of Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister was expecting that he might resolve these disputes, give them some good news, and that didn't happen. Farmers struggle with natural disasters all over Turkey. We waited to see if the government had a warm hand on them, and this wasn't there. The Petroleum Law came to the agenda, and was discussed in general, by the Council of Ministers, perhaps by the ruling party group, at least this time, with a last-minute motion on the farmer's behalf, from those luxury ships, yachts, quotas, from the VAT, VAT, from the VAT, from the VATs of Turkey, to the airlines, without the VAT, without the VAT, without the fuel group, but they didn't get any good news about it, Mr. Bkent Arinc. Mr. Bulent Arinc appeared in front of the screens and spoke for minutes over statements he said at a Yörük festival on Sunday when he came to Manisa. He mentioned my name and actually reflected a fundamental logic. He said something like this, Mr. Bulent Arinc: I honored him by mentioning the name of the Free Special, but I was very angry at what he said to me later. I'll tell you what Mr. Bulent Arinc did: something happened in the protocol that caused laughter, only the name of Baunt Arinc was spoken of, very highly praised, by that organization he contributed so much to, and by the elected president, but by a Mr. Manisa MP, because the name of a brotherly MP was not mentioned, Mr. Bulent Arinc came out and said, "Why are you reading the names of Huseyin Godidir and the telegrams?" He said, "Why are you reading them here?" He said that, and he gave it to me, and then he gave it to me at the next stage, 10 instead of Mehteran. How can the Year's March be played in the first place? When I heard about his reaction to the 10th Year's March, which they had composed by Ataturk in 1933 to crown the first ten years of great struggle together, he was also angry at us, and when I heard that he was able to get away from the truth so quickly, I got really goose bumps. The truth of the matter is it's 11 o'clock. Mr. Bulent Arinc will start the program at 00. He must have arrived at 00. At 11:30 a.m., the mehteran took its place, performed its show in the program, waiting in the shade, they wanted to hear the music again in honor of the arrival of Bulent Arinc, but Bulent Arinc had no time. In half an hour, he finished the two-and-a-half-hour program and called on him with his famous gesture to keep him waiting for an hour and a half longer. For the first time, a mehteran head faced something like this, he went into two folds, and he said, "Get them out of here." He said, "To bring his own speech forward." But then I looked at the TVs, and they were left in the sun. But the mehteran was waiting in the shade, and he sent them into the sun. Ten to catch up when he does. The Year's March just came on. Look at the TV footage, 10 on the way to the memorial. The year is playing. But, what he did there, what if, after his reactions, Mr. Arinc said something that would mess up the agenda? Now, once he said that word... Mehteran, Istiklal March, 10. The Year's March, the common values of all of us, is to separate one from one of these policies of dissolution that have always been done in this country. But what happened there, Mr. Bulent Arinc, if he really is sincere -- and he's there to watch those diversions with the Manisas open mouth -- I propose to him, let's have a joint press conference tomorrow, Mr. Bulent Arinc, me and Mr. Mehteranbas. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0252par0105	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0253par0106	Mr. President, look, our congressman friend, has been made a motion on the Petroleum Law, the reason for the motion has already been written in two lines, cutting two lines and saying something about its motive. What does it have to do with the Petroleum Law to move here to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey if the Minister were here? Ask him to take an off-the-book speech and report it off the agenda. So, the motions, Mr. Shangir, in his speech in our group's proposal, are like this...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0254par0108	Don't talk to me.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0253par0109	I mean, look, the motions and speeches here are all off-the-tops. Let's talk about the law, let the opposition say everything, let's criticize it, but taking these criticisms to different points is probably not part of the rules or rules of the Turkish National Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0255par0111	Okay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0256par0113	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like two words to go into the transcripts. Now, Mr. Group Deputy President is describing how the subject I just complained about would oppose the opposition with another derivative, but I'll tell you one thing...
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0257par0115	We can't describe opposition to you, you know the best of the opposition. Opposition forever!
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0256par0116	The only thing I want to say, Mr. Bulent Arinc, is that after the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers must declare its decisions to the polemica between him and an MP in Manisa, and if he's using asymmetric power, then the legitimate ground for that MP to defend himself is this bench. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0257par0118	Questions are being asked, who's asking you questions here? You're saying, "10." He did not stand up in the march of the year. He asks. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of Turkish Petroleum Act 450, which will be issued in advance of the article 4 of Article 6 of Article 450. Necati Özensoy (Bursa) and his friends
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0258par0123	Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. The government.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0259par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0258par0127	Mr. Özensoy, come in.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0260par0129	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 6 of Law Bill 450. I salute you all. When we look at subsidiaries of Turkey's Oil Anonymous, which are not subject to audit, are established in tax gardens, who can get their staff as they please, who can employ at any price of their own quality. I'm saying this in terms of identification, so not in terms of criticism. For this reason, there is no reason why Turkish Oil should not do this search and production work in world standards. Because, as I put it, it's high quality, it's capable of employing people who specialize in the profession, and also, at the point of which they're hiring, they don't ask for anything, KPSS or anything. In fact, in institutions, you know, parliamentary salaries are very critical, but I know that there are people who take a lot more than their parliamentary salary, so let's make it good, so they're probably getting the rights of what they're doing. Now, moving from here, this is TPIC, such as TPOC, which operates in the measure that I refer to as associated partnerships with Turkish Oil. In this sense, when we have all kinds of technology, all kinds of material competence, human quality, why can't we just get past these phases, and I want to say that I don't understand that. Look, we're definitely hydrocarbon poor in seismic research within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. I mean, there's a lot of legends, sir, why isn't there oil here? It's like, you know, in the past, sir, the Americans have come, opened the well, closed it even though it exists. I'm not a person who believes in these things because I'm also a person who knows that they're being re-opened -- as I said -- that they're being built -- that they're being re-opened in these years -- that they're not economically closed -- that they're being built. If the state of the Republic of Turkey is going to meet the need for hydrocarbons, I think it has no choice but to have good relations with abroad, with foreign countries, with good deals in this sense. Unfortunately for that, foreign policy is also important in this sense. Look, Mr. Secretary has mentioned some deals in Iraq, but these deals have been made in Iraq, in areas where there are little ears. The General Manager of Turkish Oil Association -- now that he's retired -- we can now state this because Mr. Secretary would be angry if he continued as the general manager -- his statement in the CIT Commission is that they didn't even put us in the tender at Iraq. See, in all the major tenders, in those tenders, they didn't even put Turkish oils on a daily million barrels. Now, I don't know how much of the money we've invested in the deals we've made in Libya, at 180 million degrees, at dollar level, will come back, but other than that, when we look at the hydrocarbon, we're dependent on Iran, we're dependent on Russia, there's probably only one Azerbaijan we trust, and that's two states, one nation. The natural gas we got there is probably the cheapest natural gas Turkey has ever had. In that sense, I think we need to develop these policies by caring a little bit about foreign relations as well. Finally, let me state a striking number, Mr. Minister, confirm that there is talk of 500,000-day barrel supply, but in Turkey, there is talk of 630,000 barrels being consumed. I'm thinking about where the difference comes from, how it comes from, and we need to do an analysis of this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit06spe0261par0137	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit07spe0261par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 111th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 450. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, under the Law on Change in the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Agreement on Friendship and Co-operation between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Tunisia. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 214 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION WITH THE TURKEY REPUBLIC REPLICATION REPLICATION REPLICATION The adoption of the Friendship and Co-operation Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Tunisia, signed on September 15, 2011. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) 214 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Friendship and Co-operation Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Tunisia: ▪ Number of votes used: 199 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the 6th Republic of Turkey's Government and the Foreign Commission Report, where the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Security Co-operation Agreement is in order. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 360 rows. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. CONTINUATION OF PRODUCTION OF PRODUCTION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY IS CONTINUED TO THE CONTROL OF PROFECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION OF PROTECTION MADDE 1- (1) was approved of the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia signed in Ankara on 26 April 2012. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 360 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you one minute to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia to ratify the Security Co-operation Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used : 219 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin talks between Turkey's Republic and Georgia's Ahiska-Borchka Interconnection Line and the draft of the Dair Law and Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of Agreement on Border Transcontinental Electrical Trade. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 371 rows. On top of the entire bill, Mr. Necati Özensoy MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit07spe0262par0079	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the bill for the agreement between the Turkish Republic and Georgia. I salute you all. I'm not going to say too much at this hour, because I have to be at the CIT Commission tomorrow at 10:30, so I'm going to check on TEASS, the institution involved. So first of all, I'd like to say a few words about the places of the Ahiska-Borchka, which is expressed in this agreement, and so on. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 371 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. You know, the vast majority of our people in Artvin are already of Christian origin. They are the leaders of our most tormented relatives as history's Ottoman geography shrinks. In 1944, they were severely persecuted, lost, and later exiled. There was only one reason they didn't deny their Turkishness, so they had nothing to do but express that they were Turks, that they had not given up speaking Turkish. Thus, at certain times, our fellow Christians who emigrated to Turkey have emigrated recently as well. As in many counties, it is also in my district of Bursa. One last time, at the Ajussies' association meeting, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bkent Arinc had a mutual argument with the Ajussies. The demands of the meek were: " Keep us out of this distress. They have made a request for the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey, but our Deputy Prime Minister is not so easy. A decision will be made in the Council of Ministers. He said a lot of things and so on. But looking back at the history of the Republic of Turkey's state, we immediately made hundreds of thousands of citizens of what we call 89 migrations from Bulgaria. So I think it's a good idea to contribute quickly to the problems of these people, who are just being Turks, and also in the areas where they are, because many of them are college educated, but they're not citizens, and now they're construction workers in construction, so, sir, these people who make their living by doing hardwood and so on. Of course, it's about the establishment of the interconnection system in this agreement, and of course, as I said, Turkey will benefit, and we will continue to support and support any law, any agreement that will solve Turkey's problems as a National Movement Party. I'd like to state that we find this agreement appropriate. This deal's been made. And before it was approved here, of course, TİASİ has already started working in that sense. In 2015, it was said that the work would be finished and would be traded with about 700 megawatts of power. This will come up to a thousand megawatts later. I think the most important feature of this interconnection system is that the more we deal with all the countries around us in this sense, the more power we exchange in terms of investment in countries around us and Turkey, the less it will reduce our investments. The reason is this: Because of the different hours of the sun's decline, which we call the puant clocks, because of the different hours of the sun's decline, is that the price of electricity in the clocks is high, so in this transaction, we won't need to move our points up. Look, the power of Turkey's board is said to be at 60,000 megawatts, but our point strength is 40,000 megawatts. And since every thousand megawatts we do are at the level of billions, I think it's an investment that's going to reduce our burdens in some sense. As I said, it's an investment in both Georgia and Turkey, not only this exchange, but in a sense, that will boost our grade power in some way. As I said earlier in my statements on the platform, Turkey's rate of minimum hours has been down, unfortunately. I think we need to bring the rate up as soon as possible, so we can bring down the amount of electricity used during the period of points, to make sure that both the citizen and the system benefit a little bit from this complex system in Turkey. I wish you all the best in this arrangement.
tbmm-2013-05-28sit07spe0263par0091	[[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ACHISKA-BORCORCIC ENTERCONNECYONYONYON ACTIVITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND GURCISTAN THE CONTACT OF TRANSLATION IS A CONTACT MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Transcontinental Electrical Trade was approved on 20 January 2012 between the Republic of Turkey and Georgia through the Ahıska-Borchka Interconnection Line. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the Proclamation of Agreement Between the Republic of Turkey and Georgia for the Interconnection Line and Transnational Electrical Trade: ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (May 29th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
