tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the effects of chemicals in countless plastic products, such as plastic cups, containers, bottles, pacifiers, and cancer risks, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of the Constitution, in order to investigate the effects of human health. [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[40s.]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 9) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[Artvin]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] 20) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] Every day in Turkey, millions of people use such products as pet bottles, checkacanas, plastic cups, plastic storage containers, plastic spoons, forks, straws, bottles, pacifiers. According to reports from the US Institute of Toxicology, chemicals such as BPA (Bisphenol A) in plastic are affected by the heat and cold, moving to the foods and drinks it keeps in contact or in it. The World Health Organization has confirmed that these chemicals are at risk for human cancer. These chemicals in plastics disrupt the endocrine system, affecting various organs and tissues such as reproduction, hypothysis, thyroid, breast tissue. Depending on this, growth and development are causing serious damage to various systems, such as the immune system, and triggering cancer. Experts say that BPA (Bisphenol A) in particular increases the risk of obesity, diabetes, asthma, heart-damaged disease and liver damage, as well as the risk of prostate cancer in women, especially in men. Given the increasing number of cancer cases in our country, the seriousness of unconscious plastic use is more evident. Research on this subject reveals that baby health and child health as well as adults are facing serious dangers because of chemicals such as BPA. Because when plastic bottles, bottles, and food containers contain hot liquids, or food, the BPA material goes into the liquid or food in the container. There are hundreds of studies that show that BPA has negative effects on human health. Its negative effects on genes are also indicated in later generations. In many countries around the world, especially in the United States, including Canada, France and Denmark, people do not know enough about the use of bottles and plastic products, including this chemical that has been stopped and banned. Our people need to be encouraged to use glass bottles, informed of what plastic products are bad for their health and which are not. In addition, it is vital that these chemicals, which are at risk of hormonal disorders and cancer, are banned from all food and beverage storage containers, especially in bottles and other plastics. Therefore, it is of great importance to open the House to investigate the effects of human health because of the hormonal disorder and the risk of cancer of chemicals found in numerous plastic products, such as plastic cups, containers, bottles, pacifiers, in our country, pet bottles and damacanas. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to study the negative effects of privatisation practices in Turkey and employment, the consequences of the failure of judicial decisions on privatisation cancellations, and to investigate allegations of corruption on the agenda in recent privatisations, the Constitution requires that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104 and 105. [[Antalya]] 2) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Let's go.]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[40s.]] 16) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 17) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] Turkey was introduced into privatisation process, including the opening of the economy into competition, reducing public burdens, supporting entrepreneurship, and in 1985-2012, dozens of public facilities and businesses were sold. Turkey sold nearly $43 billion during the total 17 years, while about 35 billion sales took place during the 2003-2012 period, when the AKP was in charge. Turkey's largest and monopoly-based facilities, which have made serious contributions to the country's economy, have been sold in this period for three or five years. Privatisation practices have been moved to justice by those who have suffered from these sales from time to time, but much of the judicial decisions have been tried to be ignored rather than applied. The failure of the State Court's decisions on the privatisation of Sejdişehir Etimi Aluminum AŞ is a typical example of this situation. Sejdişehir Etı Aluminum AŞ was privatised for 305 million dollars, while again the price of privatisation tenders has been cancelled by the Prosecutor's Office for the exchange of Oymapınar HES. Instead of implementing this decision, the President of the Privatisation Administration and the government filed a lawsuit against the original trade court to get Sejdişehir Eti Aluminum Ash back, and after a while this case was withdrawn. Due to such practices, privatisation processes have also caused severe damage to the rule of law, much less the economic impact. Privatisation has been transformed into an area where the law does not operate. The privatised enterprises suffer serious employment losses. An uninsured, unsecured, unsecured working order is on the agenda, with no union organisation, instead of an organised working order. A number of allegations are also being raised in recent privatisations. The debates, such as privatisation of the land on which some facilities are located at lower prices, giving these facilities to people close to power, delaying payments, are often reflected in public. The AKP has set a $38 billion privatisation target for the next three years. If the wrong practices in the last decade continue, there will be great losses for Turkey and our people. For these reasons, it is necessary to investigate the effects of privatisation practices on the economy and employment, to examine the consequences of the failure of judicial decisions, to open a parliamentary investigation to investigate corruption claims in privatisation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In terms of climate and soil conditions, our country is well suited to vines and vines. The abundance and quality of wine vines is of great importance to the production of wine grapes. Turkey has about 550,000 hectares of vineyards, and it produces about 4 million tons of grapes. Our country is ranked fourth in the world's vineyard and sixth in production. In Turkey, 57.7 per cent of the vineyard is produced as a table, 13.5 per cent as a winery, 28.8 per cent as a drying grape. Turkey is third, given the amount of land and production of EU member states. Tekirdağ is the head of the towns where they grow wine grapes in Turkey. First of all, the region carries the world's most suitable geographical and climatic conditions for the production of grapes and wine in the fields. The districts of Tekirdağ are Şarköy, central and Malkara, which may be considered important for the production of both vineyards and grapes, given the counties of Tekirdağ. Sharköy's links include 70 per cent of the province's total bonding areas and about 80 per cent of grape production. In Tekirdağ's economic life, the farming and winery sector is a private place. In the autumn of 2010 and the spring of 2011, climate changes have led to the sickening of the vineyards of table and wine in many regions, which have negatively affected the grape rack. Grape producers have been trying to draw attention to global climate change, the side effects of drugs used in bonds, warning government and agriculture-related state institutions for years. However, there are no permanent solutions to their problems. Farmers who produce in Tekirdağ, which has an important place in vinery and wine production, have experienced major problems, especially since the privatisation of TEKEL. The price of grapes has increased year after year, while the price of grapes has been always on the same level for years, and even the price of some grapes has troubled the grape makers. Grape producers don't get paid for the grapes they sell. Despite the appropriate climate and soil conditions, the hanging genetic presence that it has, and a significant place in the area of bonding and production, it is unfortunately ignored the significant problems of the manufacturers who work as farmers, growing and marketing. There is still no good coordination between the manufacturer and the manufacturer of the product. In addition, most of the links are trained by the radio system, far from modern practice. The establishment of stringed systems exceeds the farmer's budget, and the products of ties established in quality and outside the market are market problems. While wheat, sunflowers, and other products are given a bonus for support, grape producers are not given the necessary state-support premiums. The grape manufacturer receives only diesel support from the state, but that is not enough to solve its problems. Therefore, policies for the support of the farmer and the vineyard must be developed, implemented, and the manufacturer must be provided with masoths as well as product support. Most of our grape growers are struggling with disease and harm. The manufacturer must be informed and provided with the necessary support for how to deal with disease and harmful ones that significantly lower the quality of grown grapes. In accordance with the above issues, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105, of Constitution 98, and the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to investigate the problems of the grape producers and to take the necessary precautions. [[Tekirdağ]] [[Niğde]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 6) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Balıkesir]] [[40s.]] [[Let's go.]] 10) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] 12) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] 20) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] Yes, the motions will take its place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, Erzincan MP Muharrem Izk Bey, who has been elected to Clerk Membership, we wish him the best. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The National Party of Action Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process, and I shall submit to your votes, and I shall make you read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Monday 8/7/2013 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. The Council of Turkey's Parliament's proposal to conduct a parliamentary research proposal on Monday 8/7/2013 (now) read in the General Assembly on Monday (August 10/632) to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems leading to the migration in the main immigration provinces of Kütahya MP Im and his friends (10/632). In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Alim Izmir, Kütahya MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0002par0176	Mr. President, on March 7, 2012, I made a commitment to the Parliament's inquiry motion to be put on the agenda of the Parliament's research motion, which we have made to avoid the immigration issue by investigating the factors that caused the migration in the cities that led to immigration as members of the National Movement Party's Group. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. We also wish that the blessed Ramazan moon, which we will begin to understand tomorrow, should be a blessing in the entire Turkish Islamic world, and we celebrate your Ramadans separately. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, the wrong measures and wrong policies of the Justice and Development Party governments, who have been ruling Turkey alone for the past 11 years, have continued to migrate rapidly, while some of the country's provinces continue to migrate rapidly, while some of our provinces and the problems that this has brought to some of our provinces are growing. The most important problem in these provinces is unemployment and lack of public investment. In the 2011 general elections, in particular, the cities in which the number of parliamentary MPs has fallen since its population was reduced due to its rapid migration. In some of our counties, 2, there have been less than one member of parliament in some of our provinces, and the painful consequences of this migration have been the loss of lawmakers in these elections. One of them is the province of Kütahya, which is my constituency. In 2000, our province, which has 677,000 inhabitants, has lost nearly 100,000 of its male populations to other provinces in the last decade. Similarly, the province of Afyonkarahisar, our neighbor, has lost two MPs. Again, our Yozgat province has lost two MPs. Other than that, many of our provinces have lost 1 or 2 MPs and have faced the consequences of this migration. Well, the most important reason for this is that when you think about what the reason is, you don't have the job opportunities to address the young people in that province. Naturally, the reduction of public investments is the rapid sale of existing public institutions and institutions under the name of privatisation to obtain income that contributes to the budget or the current deficit for the government, but in terms of the youth of that province, a business opportunity is closed to them at the business gate. Precious lawmakers, if you look at the reports published by TÜİK (TİK) as a result of the assessments, the province is migrating, losing its young population to other provinces, the number of MPs is falling; on the other hand, it is covered by cities with the lowest unemployment rate when you look at the figures of the TİK. What kind of contradiction is that? For example: According to the 2011 results of the highest migratory provinces, 9.55 per cent go by Bilcik, 8.27 per cent Isparta, 4.44 per cent Kütahya, Erzincan, Amasya, Karabük, Burdur, Manisa, Sivas, Yozgat, Tokat. The same TÜİK publishes unemployment rates, says the district of TR33, located in Menisa, Afyon, Kütahya, Kütahya, Uçe district, is the lowest unemployment rate of 4.7 per cent. Now, if you do not take into account that migrants have left their provinces because of unemployment, you will find that there are fewer unemployed persons among the remaining elders, and that is the truth of TİKIK. This TÜİK must determine why the young people who left that province left it. I left because of unemployment. If he says so, he must add it to the unemployment rates of the province. We know that young people say that, but the TÜİK does not reflect it in numbers, but it is a low unemployment in Kütahya, in Manisa, in Tokat. If he says that, he deceives himself and deceives the state; it must be dealt with. On the other hand, it is imperative that the public investments in these provinces in particular be increased and the municipalities that migrate in the incentive system be assessed as special. Dear lawmakers, once again, when you look at the government's new incentive system, which has been implemented since last year, you see that it encourages new industrial investments in these provinces. For God's sake, you're not going to encourage existing corporations when they're clearly suffering from unemployment, and you're not going to support people who have invested in these cities, and we're going to encourage you if you build new facilities for them. They don't because they're shutting down what's there. We need to evaluate this system with the immigration data of the province, with the population growth, with the newly added young people and the incentive system for investments. The province of Kütahya and its territory are one of the highest migratory rates in the Aegean region -- when we evaluate the Afyon and Kütahya (Kütahya) together -- but you see, in the numbers of TÜİK (TİK) the unemployment rate in our provinces is said to be the lowest. This contradiction needs to be resolved. I would agree with TÜİK if he said: "Yes, unemployment is scarce among the elders who remain after this migration, and cities that have many pensions. That's why unemployment is reduced. There's credibility in this class, but there's little unemployment in these provinces, so public investments are not enough, and there's no migration. If he says so, then he contradicts himself. This needs to be stopped. Therefore, we must make sure that the measures are taken so that we can review and reexamine the fundamental causes and errors of our immigration provinces or such assessments that have been mispronounced to the public and prevent this from happening. On the other hand, the state of our major cities, which have migrated to other cities because of these factors caused by migration, which have increased populations, but have not provided jobs for the unemployed who come with this migration, is a whole other issue. The Metropolis are constantly migrating, but when our immigration people go to those provinces, they don't have a job to support themselves and their families. In the suburbs of these provinces, they face new problems, many social problems. Therefore, I say that the High Assembly must take matters into account in two dimensions, both in terms of immigration and in terms of the problems in which the immigration provinces live and deal with, and, in this sense, if necessary, to bring up the measures and make it legal. With these feelings and thoughts, I would like to request that our motion be immediately taken into the agenda of the House, and that the High Assembly do its part in the investigation of the problems that are going on in our provinces, and that the measures be taken, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0003par0186	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0004par0188	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the cities that migrated in our country, the problems that caused the migration are actually the reasons for the most important social events in our 30 years of close history. We, the Party of Peace and Democracy, have made a commitment against the motion to investigate, but we would like to express our group's opinion on this as a talk. First of all, it's good to look at the migration map in our country, to look at the underlying events of the minority migration. There is a chapter in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s -- starting from September 6th -- where the Greeks, as well as the Armenians, the Süryans, the Assyrians, the Ezidis, the minorities, the three wave-sized migrations, and after these migrations, the return doors were opened. We are aware that many Greeks and other minorities have migrated and their numbers have also fallen in the west, as well as in metropolitan areas, whether they are ethnically different, religious, religious, religious positions today, whether they are Ezidi, Süryani, or in the southeast. As a result, their lands, their villages, their gardens were seized, and after a long time their lands were taken into their own possession. Second: There is an immigration incident from some of our provinces for economic reasons, and there are economic migrations from our provinces of the Black Sea, such as Sivas, to the Metropolitans, including the land of the Prime Minister's hometown of Rize, in the capital of the largest migration. From east and southeast, there are also migrations due to regional backwardness, instability throughout the history of the Republic, to the metropolitan, to the Aegean, to the Mediterranean, to Istanbul. Now, if the result of these migrations is asked, which is the largest Kurdish city in Turkey? They will immediately say that the answer is Istanbul. Of course, Istanbul is a city with families, mostly Sivasian -- internally displaced -- and then the Black Sea provinces arrive. Again, when you look at the Aegean and the Mediterranean, there is a wave of migration from East and Southeast Anatolia, especially Kahramanmarash, Adıyaman, Malatya, Adana, Mersin, and Antalya, and the Mediterranean. Besides, there is another wave of migration created by the 30-year conflict process, which is much more social and social. The politicians in the slums, the metropoliss know that there is a mass migration to large metropoliss, particularly Istanbul, İzmir, Mersin, Adana, who were burned to the ground, burned to the ground by over 4,000 perpetrators, burned to the ground by the village in the 1990s. This is the result of the migration of life-security, property-security, the sudden rise of the population of a metropolis such as Diyarbakir to over a million people. In the East, the population of a province such as Van has increased five times as many as the population of the city has been seen to be over a million in central metropolitan areas such as Diyarbakir and Van, because it is one of the nearest cities to be driven by security and conflict. There's a different dimension to this, my friends; it's an invisible dimension, and no one wants to see it, but as a shame, I think it's a shame, whether we're always going to face it or not. Do you know that 16,000 citizens of the Republic of Turkey still go to Iraq and still live there because of the forced migration? Do you know of our citizens who were scattered into five different camps with Camp Mahmur and Camp Mahmur, many of whom lived in Iraq during the Saddam period, including the Uludere, Beytüşşebap, Şırnak central, Kuşok, and even in the 1990s because of the burning of the village and the unknown of the perpetrators? This is a reality in this country and in the world's 16th largest economy, if 16,000 citizens are still living in another neighbouring country recently as refugees, you can't be proud of it, you can't be proud of it. In the world's 16th largest economy, forward democracy, your own citizens are still refugees. This is recent history, and there are refugees of coups. This Parliament owes a debt to refugees of the coup of September 12th, my friends. Today, in Egypt, the coupters, showing the character of the coupters, are pouring bullets on the people and starting mass killings because one thing protects them -- weapons, tanks, death vomiting cold metals, planes, bombs and management style -- is the total resilience of martial law, extraordinary courts and freedoms, and the complete removal of freedom of press freedom, including the meeting, the demonstration. This is happening in Egypt, in the 21st century, and even if someone hesitates to name the blow, we are faced with a coup that is clear, clear, that the chief of staff, again, will overthrow someone who came with the election in a military hierarchy. Now, as a result of this coup on September 12th, rightist, leftist, the thousands of people I know, who I went and met in Europe, who are still refugee friends, most of whom I have met, are still out of citizenship, so they still can't return to their country, they're going through investigations when they return, coup law, martial law courts, martial law trials, martial law tags, martial law searches. Well, shouldn't this House also extend its hand to the political refugees who have fallen victim to the coups that have shut down this House? It's a very late mission, an honorable one. It is vital that parliament also stand up to the people's will and to the coupgers. I am only opposed to the coup in Egypt, or elsewhere, and I will judge the coup in Turkey. The only country where the coupgers in Turkey are tried without arrest is Turkey, my friends. The architects of the GATA machete and those who carry his patent in politics need to be very careful when talking about coups. Turkey's coupgers lie in the GATA machete in this country, which puts 80-year-old grandmothers in prison for helping their children. There is no reputation for any word spoken against Egypt after having slept with the GATA machete. I think it would be helpful to have this research done. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0005par0197	Thank you. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Doğan Şafak, Nüğde MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0006par0200	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of the group's proposal to investigate the nationalist Movement Party's motion to investigate the problems leading to immigration in our migratory provinces and determine the measures to prevent immigration. Members of parliament, we all know that the geography that I live in, particularly the eastern, southeast, and the black Sea, has migrated, especially in many cities in the inner Anatolian region. Migrations are usually from rural areas, villages and towns, partly from urban centers. In particular, the major difficulties in agriculture and animalism, economic difficulties, labour conditions and the difficulty and the lack of social security, lack of employment opportunities for university graduates in small cities, lack of industrial investments in small cities, injustice in the distribution of income, terrorism and security problems, the failure of farmers to sell their products in value or cost, the cost of privatisation in small cities, the colourful lives in cities, television and media-watched cities, people, especially in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Adana, Adana, Bussana, Bussa, Bussa, Bussa. For example, from my own town, 23 municipalities in the district of Niğde have been shut down due to its population dropping below 2,000. As an example from our country, Turkey's 1,591 district is closed in total. Which gives us a very specific clue as to the reasons for the migration. Dear lawmakers, we said that the reason why migrations are usually in rural areas is because there are problems with agriculture, livestock and unemployment. I'm going to give you some numbers on this. According to the 21st Article of the Agricultural Law issued in 2006, at least 1 per cent of the non-employee must be divided into agricultural support each year. The government did not abide by its own law. In 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, 16 billion, 299 million liras were cut off from the farmer. I just want to give you an example of 2010 so I don't choke on numbers, and I'll tell you the sum of other years. In 2010, an illegitimate national product is worth 1 trillion, 28 billion, 802 million. There are 10 billion 288 million that need to be paid to agriculture by the law, 5 billion 605 million that the farmer has been given, which is 4 billion 683 million short. In addition to 2011-2012, agricultural support has decreased by an average of 25 billion. The mazota farmer used in agriculture pays 5 billion 900 million taxes. The cost of energy prices used in subterranean irrigation -- used in the past -- has exceeded the cost of endurance during this period of government. 80% of 140,000 agricultural irrigation subscribers owe money to MEDAS and energy companies. The total debt is worth over $2.5 billion with interest. The power of 40 per cent is out. 75% of Turkey's plantations are covered by grain products. Wheat, barley, rye, oatmeal, these products are not worth anything. In addition, in the countryside, citrus, cotton, potatoes, beets, cabbage, such products no longer come to the village. For example, between 2003 and 2009, 11 million 945 thousand tonnes of wheat were imported. In exchange, $3.5 billion was paid for imports. The same problems continue in livestock. The farmer can't sell the animal he bought for 7.5 billion today for 1.5 billion. During this period of government, Turkey has given up on farming for up to 2.5 million hectares, the second largest province in Turkey's facial measurement, Ankara. As a result of the wrong policies, the size of our country's agricultural area has exceeded the total area of eight provinces -- Yalova, Kilis, Bartın, Zonguldak, Düzce, Osmaniye, Iğdır, Opeeli. The total is 20,000 square kilometers. In 2002, the farmer who provided for agriculture was 7,400,000, while at the end of 2009, 5 million, 200. So 2 million manufacturers have migrated from production by hand. Dear friends, the privatisation of small cities has sold factories, ports, and economic setbacks that have begun in these cities have forced people to migrate to large cities. For example, 5 (KECEL) of the 6 factories sold after the privatisation of the TEKEL cigarette division in 2004 were closed. Istanbul, Adana, Bitlis, Malatya and Tokat factories are closed, only the Ballica Factory continues to work. Following the privatisation of the TEKEL liquor department, nine factories have been closed; Ankara, Çanakkale, Diyarbakır, İstanbul, İzmir, Şanlıurfa, Kırıkkale, Ürgübüp, Yozgat. These 19 factories sold for $290 million in 2004, along with their stock and land, and within a year, the buyers handed over 92 per cent of these facilities to the US Texas Pacific company. In 2008, the TEKEL cigarette division was sold to British American Tobacco. Other than that, over the past few years, the privatisation of sugar factories, cement factories has caused unemployment and revenue distribution in small cities and has been the cause of migration to large cities. According to a compilation of TÜİK ΤİK.'s data in the last year, the province of Ağrı, which migrated most in 2012, is the province of Ağrı. In the district of Ağrı, where 552,404 people live, 27,984 people migrate to other cities. We were followed by Kars at the speed of a thousand minus 25.64 migratory speeds of Mush and minus 21.03 net migratory speeds. Last year in Turkey, 2 million 317,814 people changed cities. The city that received the largest migration took place as Istanbul, Ankara and İzmir. The capital of Ankara, where 5 million people live, was inhabited by 160,230 people in 2012. The other reason for the migration is that young people who have graduated from hundreds of thousands of universities have finished their studies and have not been able to find work in their own cities, especially in the small cities of Anatolia; therefore they migrate to large cities or not to their homeland. The impact of general economic practices without production and the lack of employment are among the causes of migration. This pre-government -- the deficit of criminal transactions -- has yielded a total of $44 billion in revenues in 80 years, with $349 billion in ten years in this government, for example, at $6.6 billion in December 2002, the hot money went up to 160 billion in May 2013. In 80 years prior to this government, Turkey has issued a total of 247 billion dollars, a total of $586 billion 900m during this government period. Therefore, due to the investigation of this migration in the cities of Anatolia, the National Movement Party supports the group's proposal for the parliamentary research motion, which I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0007par0215	Thank you. The National Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0008par0218	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal to investigate the problems of the nationalist Movement Party in the immigrant provinces and cities. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, immigration is a fact as old as human history. Everyone used to go to better areas of agriculture and animalism in the past, where natural resources are not enough to feed the growing population, they have migrated to better places. Of course, migrations can have much different political reasons. Migration is a fact of our country. When you look back on the past, Istanbul's stone soil is gold. In less than 8 million populations, if it has climbed up to 14 million populations, it is necessary to present this problem as an example of metropoliss and crooked urbanization. It is true that the migration is not only between the provinces, but within the province, but also through the countryside to the city. Well, what was done during the time of our government associated with this, I'd like to briefly talk about them. First of all, immigration causes, and if we look at this, we'll be able to figure out what's going on with solving problems. If the agricultural fields are inadequate, if you can't prevent erosion, if the soil becomes inefficient, the peasant's belly will become insatiable, he will migrate from rural to city. If jobs are reduced, investments are unstable, education and health care are inadequate, yes, they migrate to cities. Economic instability, social problems, security issues are the main cause of migration, again. In short, where people live, they are not satisfied, they are not satisfied, they are a healthy environment, they are an immigrant if they do not live in a modern city. In private, I'd like to talk a little bit about my own constituency, Kütahya. Because he set out with some examples of Kütahiah, the esteemed MP, who had spoken before us, from my constituency. In fact, when you look at it in Kütahya, there is speculation that 25,000 men have migrated recently, who have also been sent to the public. Now, a 25,000 population reduction is directly concerned that the working population has migrated only in terms of unemployment and economic inadequacy, in fact, purely political, shallow, and false. Why would you say that? Dear lawmakers, famous teacher Nasrettin's joke. He lent me a boiler. When the boiler came, and he came back with a small boiler, and the person there kept quiet, but the next time the winner didn't come back, what happened to Hodja? He said, "This time he died." When you gave birth, you didn't make a sound, but the winner died. Why do you object? Where do I come from? The next year, you look at Kütahya, and there are about 20,000 increase in population, and the next year there are 25,000 deficits, and the next year there are 10,000 increase in population. Now, there's an anomaly in this. The anomaly is that it's not about the demographic of the working population, it's about the military subpoena rates that are based on data taken entirely by TÜİK. One year, the military reported 4 subpoenas instead of 1 subpoena, and four populations reported an artificial increase. Now, based on that, it doesn't mean that the province's economy is bad and completely destroyed. And -- very short -- the fertility rate is still a problem in our country. Our Kütahya (Kütahya) has a fertility rate of 1.9 in Domanic district. Our mayor's giving the kids who were born in the center a single gift flag. I asked, in the last three months, Jacob President, how many flags did you give? There are six births in the center of the city. So it's not just that. When you look at it, there's a bet that the unemployed are gone, and the remaining population is down on average. That's a very baseless claim. It's not all the people who are out of unemployment, and it's not all the people who have jobs. Here, in the movement, we have officers, we have employees; among those who have jobs and are gone, there are unemployed people in the family. So, it's a purely unscientific conclusion, and it's a claim. In our country, the division of inheritance-tracked land, the narrowing of agricultural areas, the reduction of the amount of land per farmer's head was a major problem in the past. Well, we started here as a solution. First of all, a lot of distances have been made in the study of collectiveization. If you look at the total collection by 2001, it is limited to about 450 thousand hectares, while there is now a collection of over 3 million hectares. In 2023, we aim to complete it and give the land to our farmers collectively, efficiently. When you look around, there are dams, ponds, watering ponds all over our country. The number of dams that have been built or built in Kütahya alone in the last ten years continues with the number of ponds that continue to be built at 45; thousands of acres, irrigation sites and canals. Let's look at employment, where we were, what happened? The unemployment rates in Turkey are now approaching the lowest levels of the eurozone. I'd like to give a brief example of Kütahya. There are many criticisms, public investments don't open, jobs don't open... Look, Emet.Etibor, 2 factories were built during our administration, and the third factory, hopefully, will be done within the next few years. In Bronzebilek, thousands of new jobs will be met in one to five years, with completely new basins. Gene, when you look at the latest Seyitömer privatisation in many critical privatisations, we see that none of our workers are currently exposed. Gene, let's look at the organisers. In 2004, there were 10 facilities, 250 employees, over 70 facilities today, 6,500 employees. We've established the second organization. In 2006, 900 people are employed in the Gediz organisation, and the number of people working in private has increased from 2,700 to 5,000. You're looking at the OSB with the rabbit, it was established in 2006, it started in 2010, and four facilities were set up, 11 facilities invested. I've got 1,350 jobs now, and when I'm done, I'll have 300 jobs. COSGEB is more supportive of our business and entrepreneurs who want to start a business than ever before in history. In addition to the support given to university workers, staff at current workplaces, promotional, catalogs, expo supports given to entrepreneurs, new jobs... Today I'm going to start a business. You say you're going to get 30,000 lira grants, and you're going to get $70,000 at a very low interest rate. When you say, "I'll cooperate, I'll cooperate." When you say, "I'm going to join forces." You're going to meet 5 people. You're going to be given $250,000, and you're going to be given a loan at a very low interest rate of £500,000. Micro credits for the ladies. The incentives are now under the incentives of Kütahya and Afyon's 4th district. Gene, as you look at it, Investments and Employment Law number 5084 has been extended for four years. According to this, the share of the employer is paid by the treasury. Look, transportation for the expansion of cities is well-appreciated by our people, the distance that has traveled through transportation across Turkey. Gene, it's called Kütahya and Victory Airport. We are waiting for a large source of employment, with projects in the railways, the navy, in the divided way of all our roads connecting Kütahya to the surrounding provinces. Gene, universities, we have universities in all the provinces of Turkey. Our university has been opened, even in Hakkari, despite those who say, "Don't go everywhere." Our university in Kütahya (Kütahya) reached 21,000 students in 2001 and has now reached 43,000 students. Look, in a nutshell, the valued lawmakers, I'm only going to give to Kütahya, there's not much to say in Kütahya, there are 28,300 employees from the SGK in 2001, there are 80,000 people working in 2013. On top of that, there are 24,000 workers from BUG-KUR, with agricultural insurance. When you look at it, our government has taken measures that are related to this -- with changing our cities, with transformation -- urban transformations are being implemented, and all over the place where our people, our countrymen, will live better, is equipped with parks, gardens. There are significant improvements in health. Our kids don't go to other cities anymore, our schools are opening up. Our villages are getting prettier, healthier, and this nation hasn't forgotten the cash register that was thrown before the Prime Minister in 2001, the tradesman who was on the road, the peasant. Therefore, I say we will vote against the National Movement Party's motion to investigate, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0009par0241	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0242	Mr. President, the speaker has told me the story of Nasrettin Hoxha, and he said I'm talking about non-scientific facts, and I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0009par0243	The proposal is yours to refer, of course, to your speech, your suggestion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0244	No, he said I was speaking out of science, so let's make a statement about him. They said it was a crash.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0009par0245	What'd he pick on you for? What did he say? Don't tease me, or... you don't have the right to explain.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0246	Don't be coy.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0009par0247	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Light? What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0248	Nasrettin told the story of Hoxha's boiler, and you heard it, Mr. President. When you were giving birth, did you not believe that I had distorted the population data, such as when I was lost? I have to explain. Twenty-five thousand lost in Kütahya.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0009par0249	Mr. Light, there is no such thing as an explanation in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0250	Okay. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0009par0251	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0254	Dear lawmakers, you've listened to our deputy, who said that when 25,000 men were lost in Kütahya, I misinterpreted the data and evaluated it for political purposes. He might consider it that way. Well, since he's the deputy of his own science, of course, I won't say anything against it in any way, but it's his own party, our friend, our own congressman. The young people who were lost were found the following year. Dear MP, before the elections, the Gendarme Battalion will not go away, they will stay. You said, "The military staff has moved away for a year, and when they don't come in, not four times as you say, but 10,000 young people didn't show up in Kütahya, because they didn't show up that year. In fact, every year there are 10,000 or 15,000 migrations, 25,000 young people just disappeared. On the other hand, compared to those who come with this and those who go from this province, it seems that those who go are unemployed young, often contributing to the population, including university youths. There's nothing unscientific about it. If you still believe in unemployment figures and argue that they're true, the Kütahians will consider them. Thank you, Mr. President, for your promise.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0011par0259	Thank you. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0010par0264	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0011par0265	I'll call. Those who don't agree... There's been a disagreement between the clerks, so we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, there are sufficient decisions, the National Movement Party Group proposal has not been accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 8:07.2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Monday, 08,07,2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 12,06,2013, the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly was given by İzmir MP Hülya Güven and his friends to investigate the effects of tear gas and preventing unwanted effects in the long term (952 rows). lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read and held in the same date of its talks in Monday's session of 8:07.2013. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Hülya Güven, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0012par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers have taken a pledge on behalf of the group to ensure that the long-term effects of unwanted gases such as CS, OC, sarin, oranges -- have been used by our citizens in the country to prevent protesting practices that limit the freedoms of the AKP's power -- and to support the park protest -- have been used by our citizens. Congressmans, in a question motion I made in August 2012, I stated that the pepper spray that was described at the time could cause asthma and cause death when it was used in a closed space or when it was sprayed on people with asthma, and should be banned. Again, our lawmakers made the same proposals as the various motions they made, and so did NGOs. Less than a year later, we hear the gases are diversified and applied to citizens. Our citizens who only wanted to exercise democratic rights, wanted peace, wanted freedom, not pepper spray, but other gases were claimed to have been used, and this suspicion has arisen. One of them is orange gas, which is used in Vietnam, which still affects the Vietnamese there. It's a gas that causes liver damage and still the birth of disabled babies. Other gasses have been mentioned, such as CS, CR, even sarin gas, which is forbidden to use. Each had a different effect, and we said sarin gas was forbidden, but soon, you will remember, he was captured in Mersin, and Adana. In 2012, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin said that pepper spray was tested through laboratory tests, leaving no lasting, harmful effects. I'd like to ask what lab tests? Gases that were rushed because the warehouses ran out, gasses that were bought in haste, gases that burned in the body because they were mixed in water in the TOMA, citizens who were throwing up for days, young people who were...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0013par0288	Sticks, stones, knives...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0012par0289	Moreover, the police are ordered to be bored without pain. They are thrown into the 10th floor, so that the sick, the old, and the infant may die. It's as if the one who doesn't vote for us is gone. The logic is being carried out. It's likely that 50 percent of the Prime Minister doesn't count as himself is wanted to disappear. Undetermined gases are sprayed on people like pesticides. The world was on its feet, and it was ignored again. The police were constantly ordered to stay in their homes. We also saw the last example on Saturday in the Zombie Square. But in the meantime, I'd like to ask you, what happens to the cops you drive into the field and they get gas all the time? Cops who think they're protected by gas masks don't know what diseases are waiting for them in the future.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0014par0291	Why does the world not rise in Egypt?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0012par0292	You say Egypt, but I want to give an example from America. That's what we expect from the government. In the United States of America on September 17, 2011, the university administration agreed to pay $1m and apologize in a letter after a lawsuit launched against students whose high tuition was acting as a sit-in for protest. In fact, you guys need to give more, because there's been a series of indiscriminately bored and death-induced interventions. So, what's going on with us? Unknown gases are being released under the name pepper spray. Citizens don't know how to take precautions. Doctors are arrested for immediate intervention, preventing them from practicing medicine. There's even a penal code for physicians, under the name of unlicensed intervention.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0015par0295	Teacher, they burned down the cities.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0012par0296	Young people who want to exercise their democratic rights are taken into custody as if being exposed to pepper spray is not enough. Women are harassed in Scorpions. If the student puts out a slogan, it's ten years. Pepper spray, as if harassment wasn't enough, people with nails, clubs, or machetes show up, attack, kick, but they're released. Mr. Minister of the Interior has issued a general order, and has anyone listened, saying, "Gaz are not to be thrown into old people, disabled people, closed spaces?" Well, didn't Mr. Muammar Guler know about the effects of the gas before? Since it was being used, was it supposed to be a joke when experts on the subject were making announcements? I think it's time for the gas to be gased first. The announcement started, but they're being thrown at again by chasing the fugitives. Now, I'm just going to talk about a couple of acute effects of pepper spray. Coughing -- of course it might seem normal -- respiratory failure, respiratory failure, of course it's possible to cause brain damage as a result of my left pause -- is possible to see sudden rise in blood pressure, fainting, permanent damage to the nervous system in high concentrations.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0016par0299	Count the side effects of rocks and Molotovs.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0012par0300	Don't you want to think that the health of our citizens who were exposed to so much gas did not vote for us? It doesn't matter to you? A government should embrace everyone in its country. First of all, this gas needs to be banned, and the exposed need to be checked out, controlled in terms of health. All citizens must be allowed to exercise their democratic rights. I'll give you the names of some institutions. Many institutions have actually made a lot of statements about their effects, about the effects of these gases. The Turkish Medical Association, the pharmacy room, the Chamber of Chemical Engineers...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0017par0302	Your backyard!
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0012par0303	And I'd like to talk to you about an urgent press release on June 18, 2013. Here's a press release from our country and the world's public opinion, which includes the Association's Representatives of the Speciality Association's Co-operation Board, where it says: "Biber gas is a chemical weapon, it must be immediately banned." Congressmans, I'd like to address your conscience. Now, I want you to show all your efforts to raise healthy individuals in prosperity in our country, and to bring up the effects of the gases that are being used, so that the long-term effects can be avoided again, and I give you my regards. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0018par0307	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, İdris Şahin, Çankırı MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0019par0310	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to speak against the motion by the Republican People's Party to investigate the measures that should be taken in the long term, according to the types of gases that have been used in our country by our citizens and against foreigners by police headquarters personnel, and the effects of acute and chronic effects on those exposed to these gases. I salute your high council. First of all, when we look at the content of the motion, it's expressed that some of the gases are being used. However, what we've received from the official records is that some of the gases we're talking about have certainly reached the water that has not been used in recent events. But, of course, no one would expect us to be in a situation where, in any way, even in a social event, we welcome the use of pepper spray, and we praise the use of pepper spray. But let me put it this way: pepper spray has become a tool that has often been applied by law enforcement officers in the past few years to intervene in social events. The rise in use of pepper gas is observed in several countries as well as Turkey. Pepper gas is a non-official substance within the Geneva Convention on the banning of chemical weapons in 1969. The use of pepper spray in the intervention of social events has also been expressed by various decisions in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. First, the armband is subject to principles such as the need to apply pepper spray, proportionality, preventing third parties from being harmed, providing medical attention to health problems that will arise. Security forces are authorized to use force in the face of various situations. In Article 16 of the Law on Law on Duty and Law on Rights, the police are authorized to use it to break and break the resistance if they face resistance while doing their duty. One of the tools of force was described in the law as tear gas or pepper spray. Law enforcement officers should be able to apply for pepper gas only when they are not able to use lighter tools when necessary. Law enforcement officers must apply for pepper spray under the principle of proportionality. The pepper spray should not exceed enough to solve the situation facing the armband. Again, law enforcement officers must take precautions to prevent third parties in the area from being affected or at the minimum if that is not possible. Again, law enforcement officers are also obliged to provide health care workers who can provide medical attention to health problems that may arise when resorting to pepper spray. The article adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations specifically states that the force of the armada should be an exception to the rules concerning the actions of law enforcement officers of 1979. In use of force, the United Nations Security Council also recommended the principle of enormity. However, he recommends using force if there is no alternative. In this particular regard to pepper gas, on 11/6/2013, a motion by the Peace and Democracy Party for the establishment of a parliamentary research commission was read in the General Assembly, and I spoke on behalf of the EC PARTI Group against the Peace and Democracy Party's motion on that day. After about 25 days, we face a motion of the same nature again. I would like to express that I find the issues mentioned in these motions, especially in the case of the valuable speaker here, the needs to be done in terms of human health, and all demands for taking precautions on this matter are genuinely positive, and I think that everyone should take a healthy step on their behalf. However, it is not possible to accept any statement from this platform, which has been expressed here in particular recently, that the police have been using disproportionate force against social events as an example. First of all, we need to do a very good job of explaining this: we all know that the police have never, ever resorted to such a method without warning them of their dealings. Our dear speaker has made it very clear here that we know personally that the police had warned the activists before the gas was used.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0020par0320	A minute ago, a minute ago.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0019par0321	Now, if these people he's warning are still resisting the law, if there's no other way the police can do it, then you shouldn't be bothered that he's using this pepper spray within legal limits. Because we all believe that this country is a democratic, secular, legal state, a social state. As long as people don't overreact, of course they have to show their reactions within democratic measure. However, if you have any concern, be assured that the demands of activists and demonstrators at various points of the country have been sincere, that their legitimate demands are not met by the powers that hold public administration, then you are mistaken. Because in the face of sincere demands, both government officials and local executives have stated that they are open to all kinds of demands and that they will not be insensitive to legitimate means of seeking rights on the ground.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0021par0322	The show is a legitimate right.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0019par0323	I'm sorry, law enforcement has to do its job against those who try to gain justice by breaking the law and forcing it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0022par0324	It's like the Fenerbahçe stadium, isn't it? Like at the Fenerbahçe stadium. By throwing gas on a bunch of kids, right? Like in the Beşiktaş stadium.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0019par0325	In this regard, the European Court of Human Rights has made similar decisions both in the Geneva Protocol and in the General Assembly of the United Nations. If we refer to Europe and the European Court of Human Rights when it comes to our work, and show that we have the desire to act out of law and activate rights methods, we will be suspicious of our genuine democratism, and I will express in particular that although there is no evidence of the use of sarin gas in social events, I would like to express that these gases that have been seized in the form of Adana and Mersin have been used in social events. Again, we will never, ever accept the statement that the police have been ordered to use it against the demonstrators. Everyone is obliged to do their duty. Police are doing their duty in accordance with the Law on Police Duty and Authority.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0022par0327	Why don't you go in as a civilian and see if you can talk to those cops, see what they say?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0019par0328	Other than that, it is unfair to state here in the General Assembly a statement that the government ordered a police officer to suppress a social event there, and we consider it a completely opposite of the truth and a statement to its history. We never, ever interfere with anyone while doing their duty. You're the ones who need to understand the spirit best, and you're the ones who are concerned about something that's been brought to justice in the last few days. I've expressed from this platform before, not only with the demonstrations there, but also with a tradesman there, see the victims of the tradesman, and then we want you to come out and make a statement on their behalf, but we don't see it from you. Now, I believe it's not fair to bring an act of law done by the tradesman there to the government and to enter into a statement that the government does not arrest these people.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0022par0330	Do you really believe that?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0019par0331	The 138th article of the Constitution is very clear, the judiciary is independent, it is obliged to carry out its function and duty, and no one in any way gives it instructions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I declare our opposition to the motion, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0023par0335	Thank you. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP asking for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0338	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party in favour of the motion to address or eliminate short, medium, long-term problems, especially for the use of this gas. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear President, valued MPs, first we need to understand: whether gas should be used during the demonstrations or whether gas is harmful or not? The question today is as absurd as the question of whether the world is rounding or not. The problem is the creation of conditions where you don't need to put the public or the demonstrators on the street and use gas. It's impossible to find the right use of tear, nauseating, cancer-producing gas. Gas use is not really human, but allelusul use is a disaster. It is also extremely wrong to first resort to a procedure that must be applied at the latest. In fact, it's also a little bit about the perception of democracy and democracy, because as democracy progresses, the use of gas normally needs to be reduced. The more gas is used in a country, the more democratic culture and democratic life in that country is behind it. As respect for man grows, democracy will actually be rooted, and gas and chemical use will be reduced, and it will even disappear. Finding and implementing gas-free methods to intervene in demonstrations is the chief duty of power and law enforcement. We need to be specific about the fact that the situation that needs to be focused on is actually about reducing the number of demonstrators that are going out on the street or preventing the police from resorting to such treatment. So why do people go out on the street, why do people or police have to use gas? The more you use the police, the more you use the security forces, the more you don't manage Turkey, the better it is, it's a measure. Now, let me put it this way: we have to perceive the social psychology of the Travel Park events, and we have to evaluate them very clearly in both scientific and precautionary terms. Now, I'm going to say something very simple. Look, I'd like to share with you here what Mr. Prime Minister means before we address events in the Travel Park, the people who go there, the state they're in. Mr. Prime Minister, a while ago, he reacted to towers of 16/9 which had risen in Oliveburn and had broken the city's skyline, and he said: "I spoke to the owner, brush up." But they did nothing. So, I'm hurt, I haven't spoken in five years. The Executive Court has revoked the building license for these buildings, and says the skyscrapers are against the law, deciding to destroy them. So, the Prime Minister of this country, I'm not saying the stages of a city like Istanbul -- that goes up until it breaks down -- but I'm not saying that he objects to it -- but why is it that when the people of this country are as sensitive as Mr. Prime Minister, there is rebellion, and why are there objections to the heavens, and why are they being raised to roar? In fact, the Prime Minister should have gone to Travel Park on the first day and congratulated him there, congratulating and encouraging the people who had the nature, the green, the trees there. And if you don't go there, and you create conditions that we call it the "marginal" or that make it the arena of some destructive, disruptive organization, then you can go back and say, "Sir, that's what it is." It turns out you don't have the right to say.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0025par0348	Teacher, you're not telling the truth, tell the truth.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0349	Now, dear MPs, I'm telling you guys something. Look at them...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0025par0350	Tell the truth, Hajji.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0351	This is the father of the righteous, his mother, his aunt. So try to understand what I'm saying. Look, I'll tell you one by one what happened because you don't want to perceive it; don't think with patterns, don't reject with reflexes, don't try to judge me, try to perceive me. You don't perceive what's in there, nor do you perceive what we're saying here, your work, your power, your pattern.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0026par0352	Teacher, we're trying to understand you so well, if you'll just open up a little bit more...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0353	Stop thinking about the party with the taassou, with the fanaticism, and get rid of them.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0027par0354	Tell the truth. You're the right man, tell the truth.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0028par0355	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0356	Now, you need to understand more about what happened than what caused the Travel Park incident. To that end, We have to recite what is true, and We have to learn the outcome of what has happened. Travel Park events are a social reflex, and it's the collective subconscious that's so full and tense, it's the rise of consciousness. The reaction produced by the arrangements in the Travel Park is a result, not a leading cause. The travel park arrangement was just a spark that ignited the social subconscious. The social subconscious is full of tidey and ups and downs and downs that power has been running for years. Dear lawmakers, see, if this government had paid attention to some issues that the opposition had taken in this Turkey, in which it had taken action as a method of joining decisions and governance, if it hadn't created camping and polarization, if it hadn't provoked the difference of ethnic, sectarian, district, gender, if it had kept the income distribution in a sustainable position, in Turkey, in Turkey, where citizens had not been separated according to their lifestyles, political property, who would've wanted to, they couldn't have put hundreds of thousands of people on the street. If there's a teacher problem in your country that can't be appointed, if there are people in your country who lose their jobs as they open shopping malls, if there are small-time workers in your country, civil servants, non-union workers and non-social security workers, subcontractor victims are minimum waged, there are conflicts and tensions in the streets if there are jobless masses, and there will be. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Today, I make it very clear that the authorities, rather than expanding the freedom of the people, acting according to the requirements of the democratic state of law, interfered with private living spaces and constraints in the country, have increased concerns in the country. It's natural to try to regulate the social habitats according to the morals of some people. One thinker says that when power targets life, life becomes resistance to power.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0029par0362	Well, well!
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0363	No society can be reduced by its power to a cadaver that can be saved by any means necessary. Travel Park is not a dead cadaver, it's the soul of trees and geography. The AKP, who sees nature and the tree as a non-living routing tool for any savings, is wrong in that direction.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0030par0364	Teacher, you've been provoked.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0031par0365	Teacher, they burned the cities.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0366	Trees and places have a soul, and they don't forgive those who are indifferent to them.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0031par0368	Teacher, they burned the cities!
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0369	On the other hand, if Turkey had been able to deal with democratic demands, the needs and values of all the people...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0032par0371	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0372	...the problem of regulation in the Sea Park was replaced only by organized environmental elements and the marginal actions of Greenpeace Workers in the archives.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0033par0373	Teacher, you've been provoked.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0374	Now, in every society...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0034par0375	Teacher, they burned the cities.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0376	When an individual realizes that he has a place in society and sees that everyone has their own values, it brings peace and peace to the community. The uncertainty creates anxiety and crisis. Contacts give governments the biggest reaction if their living space is not sustainable. Such reactions stem from identity, dignity, and honor. It's almost as if he's making arrangements to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I do it for you, I do it for you, I do it for you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0035par0379	Mr. Ozcan, you surprised me...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0380	If it tells you that you do what you're told to do, don't do what you're told not to do, then you'll have a lot to deal with.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0036par0382	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0037par0383	Teacher, don't get worked up.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0384	I have to make it very clear that from here... You're doing something with your hands, arms, or whatever. Hands, arms, moves...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0038par0386	The President doesn't think like you do.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0039par0387	Mr. Yeniçeri, please...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0024par0388	Now I'm not leaving, here you go. That's how you do it. I'm not going to...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0039par0389	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0040par0390	We love you, Hajji. We don't want you to get worked up.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0041par0391	Hodja, the newt riot?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0042par0392	This motion must be accepted and everyone must be brought into action. Our brother Idris said good things, but he got the end wrong. So, we're in this frame of...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0043par0394	Mr. Yeniçeri, please...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0042par0395	...we'd like this motion to be accepted. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit01spe0043par0398	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Party Group wants to make a promise on the 19th amendment of the Civil Charter of the Republican People's Party... But wait a second, Mr. Can, before Mr. Vural has asked for his word.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0044par0004	No, sir, later...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0043par0005	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0045par0008	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're discussing the Republican People's Party group's proposal to investigate the side effects of pepper gas. Although I don't approve of pepper spray. Pepper spray is a side effect of stones thrown at the police. Pepper gas is a side effect of Molotoves thrown into the shop. Pepper spray is a side effect of stones thrown into shops. Pepper gas is a side effect of terrorizing the streets. Pepper spray is a side effect of vandalism. Pepper gas is a side effect of creating grounds for impact. Pepper spray is a side effect of disrespecting the mosque. What is the legal basis for freedom of meeting, demonstration, and walking, and I would like to make this brief. The Constitution has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. The right to a meeting and demonstration march can only be limited to national security, public order, prevention of crime, the protection of general health and general morality or the rights and freedoms of others. The forms, conditions, and procedures that will be applied in the use of the right to conduct a meeting and demonstration march are shown in the law. Its legal legislation was found in Law 2911. Law 2911 is the Law of Meetings and Demonstration Walks. Article 3 ▪ Everyone has the right to hold meetings and demonstration march without prior permission, regardless of the laws of the Law, which are unarmed and non-aggressive, for specific purposes that the law does not consider a crime. Article 6 states that the governor and the governor and the trustees can be appointed and announced for 15 days after the announcement in cities and towns and other areas that are considered necessary or in open places or on roads. Again, curfews have been set in Article 22 of Law 2911. According to this, no public roads, parks, temples, public service buildings, and a walk on long-distance roads within a mile of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And then there's Article 23, which organises illegal meetings and demonstration walks. Firearms and explosives, all kinds of cutting and piercing tools, or sticks, irons and rubber rods, choke wire, or chains, bereating and suffocating vehicles, or burning, corrosive and hurtful pharmaceuticals, illegal organisations and communities' emblems and signs, covering their faces entirely or partially with cloths to conceal their identities, while the law is considered to be guilty of posters, banners, currency, plates, instruments, instruments, and instruments. When all this has been analyzed, he has shown himself in actions, demonstrations, meetings that are against the Constitution once, and in actions in which there are violations of Law number 2, 2911, hanging banners, slogans on posters, even hurtful weapons. So this is how illegal demonstrations and march are blocked, and this is also found in Law 2911. Our Home Secretary, Mr. Muammar Guler, has sent a statement to the police regarding these incidents. In particular, he says: In the demonstration and march, the announcement will be made with audio broadcasts and vehicles, particularly about the use of gas and ammunition, in the sense that our citizens are not being negatively affected by those who actually express their actions in accordance with the law. Before the gassy intervention, the sprinkler panzers and TOMA will not be used if there are schools or hospitals. Before using gas, the use of impact-effective defence rifles as inter-weapons; notice whether there are institutions such as schools, hospitals, daycare, nursing homes within the area of gases; taking into account profiles such as old, women, disabled groups; the use of gas bombs, gas flares in closed spaces and especially in sports areas; the interruption of gas use in the duration of gas responseses; avoiding gas use in order to prevent action against environmental and security forces; avoiding gas responses and non-resistant action; non-violence against persons or groups; definitely no use gas use against persons or groups; the use of non-responsive force; especially in order to prevent the use and to prevent the use of gas operations; and to ensure that the gas control of the security forces should be contained; and the control of the security personnel of the security forces should be contained for the security forces. As a matter of fact, the OSCE supports that freedom of expression is a fundamental right, that citizens must act on responsibility, that they are carefully following events in Istanbul, and that they have the right to a peaceful gathering and express themselves as the OSCE. People should be respected for their standing, sitting, talking, or singing fundamental rights and freedom to express themselves freely, but it is also important that the government also intervenes in proportion to its position and inflammatory practices of Vandalism and violence. There are international contracts about tear gas, again, here, about various types of gas ammunition. We joined the Chemical Weapons Convention. Again, the third article of the Police Department and the Law on Salahlik (the third article) refers to handcuffs, baton, pressurised water, tear gassing and dust, physical barriers, police dogs and horses, which police use against those who resist, or on objects outside the physical force. As a matter of fact, according to the European Court of Human Rights rulings, the European Court of Human Rights also stated that the use of such gas ammunition does not constitute any barrier to the protection of human rights. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if our opinions are being asked at the point of the use of gas used in events related to Travel Park, of course, we agree that we are against the use of pepper gas, but if the use of pepper gas is planned against the law and it violates the fundamental and right freedoms of individuals, at least it should be used as a proportional force to prevent it. The regulations for illegal meetings and demonstration walks have also been announced, and these regulations have been legally valid. As a result, we don't approve of the use of pepper spray, but we also wish that people would respect the environment with pepper spray and try to build this ground, and I salute the General Assembly with these feelings again.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0046par0021	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0047par0022	Mr. President, I want a word, too, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0046par0023	Mr. Hamzacebi, your word is not understood. Do you want something?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0048par0024	He wants a word, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0046par0025	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0049par0028	Mr. President, while it is clear and clear that the people who attacked citizens with machetes and clubs in Istanbul were involved in illegality and committed crimes, in a speech made by a member of the AKP Group about this motion, the tradesman there had done in accordance with the law... and by interfering with the judiciary, his claim that he had done that act in accordance with the law is a truly protective and protective approach to the truth. We can't possibly accept such a thing. They will attack with the machete, they will strike with the stick, and then they will encourage him to do so under the law.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0050par0029	They're going to say, "Oh, so be it."
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0049par0030	I condemn it. I don't think that an understanding that shows the rule of law to such an attempt to legitimize violence against people who legitimize the machete and criticize themselves is a manifestation of the concept of provoking citizens to each other in this way. I just wanted to put it this way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0032	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0052par0033	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0034	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0052par0036	The language I'm using there is very clear, and if there's been a mistake, I'm making it very clear that there is another time here, and I said, "Our friends should not only go and look at the situation of the tradesmen around that area, but also see that they've suffered, and that they may not be able to intervene in the law because they haven't been arrested or arrested." As a result, it is clear that there will be no assessment of a matter that has been brought to trial and has been brought to trial under Article 138. At this point, it would be wrong to make a statement as if the government is taking a step towards supporting them, or as if it's giving them advice.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0037	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. It's been made clear, it's been filed.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0052par0038	Other than that, we don't have the authority to control whether or not the actions of individuals are in accordance with the law. That's how it's supposed to be understood.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0039	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0053par0040	Sir, none of this... look, a thought that doesn't take back those words, directly legitimizes that action. ▪ What action is reflected here in the government by interfering with the justice of a tradesman there under the law?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0041	Mr. Vural made a statement again, said what he meant by it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0053par0043	Also, using machete, using a bat, is not the tradesman's will. It's an insult to the tradesmen who use machetes and use sticks, and it's an insult to the tradesmen who work there. The tradesman's property there has been damaged, but he's a tradesman who doesn't want to use the bat and the machete. So don't insult the shopkeeper.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0044	Mr. Vural, thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0054par0047	Thank you. Dear MPs, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, our Valedictorian, has made an assessment of the person who attacked the citizens with a machete, kicked the citizens, and has brought a criticism for the court's release of the judge himself to serve without arrest. Against this criticism, the congressman who was just speaking here on the stand said from his seat that arrest until yesterday should be an exception. "What happened now?" he said, saying that it was perfectly normal for that judge to release that citizen, saying that his imprisonment was an exceptional procedure, and that he had an effort to cover up the arrests of Ergenekon, Balyoz, which reached five to six years. He made such an effort, an understanding. The same understanding said that today on the stand, and just now standing here, the citizen waving the machete in the taxi said he had done an act within the framework of the law. I'm sorry if he just stood up and said something like this, that the act of that citizen is not in accordance with the law, that I have spoken out of order. I wish he would make an assessment like that, but it seems that this lawmaker, who has the identity of a lawyer, sees his attack on citizens with a machete as a legal act, a act that should stand behind the government within the law. We're not surprised, that citizen shakes the machete, the police don't take him away, the store turns, goes home, when social media is under extraordinary pressure, police, security forces are calling the person's house. We'll take your statement. He says, "Come, we'll take your statement." And then there's a forced trial, but the judge releases him. That's the epiphany of 50 percent of the hard-hitting in the house, I suppose. The Prime Minister and his friends have fallen behind a machete, defending a machete democracy. I condemn them.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0049	Wait a second. Mr. Hawk or Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0050	Mr. Hamzacebi, in connection with our Prime Minister, fell behind a machete and pursued a machete democracy. He made a grave insult in the form of a machete. I want your word on that.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0054par0051	Is that an insult?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0051par0052	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0056	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to say that we find this statement very ugly and condemn it, and it really doesn't suit us. Now, I mean, if you start like this, if you open like this, it's known that the machete, the brute force, the chaos, the terrorizing of the streets are highly specialized by who today and in the past, and we know that, and so do the people.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0056par0058	By whom?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0059	Yeah, there's a lot of examples. Look at the date.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0057par0060	Give me an example.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0061	I mean, actually, I don't want to be too specific about it to stress it out, but if there's any false, false, and insulting statements in this way, then we can...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0058par0062	Tell me if it's an act within the law.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0063	...who tried to terrorize the country in Turkey, who tried to disturb the peace of the country, in the squares, in the streets, illegally, in an illegal way, in this country, we have to speak openly here, we have to talk openly, we have to talk. It's not the right thing to do.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0059par0064	Your mission is, it's your duty to rule.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0065	What do you mean, he went after a machete? Look, first they said, "Here, sir, are tweets from the PARTI, or the PATI PARTI sympathizer. What happened? Turns out it wasn't like that.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0059par0067	Tell me if you know something.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0055par0068	Shouldn't you go out and apologize? After a slander like that, after it turns out it's not, shouldn't you go out and apologize? Isn't that the most basic rule of kindness? It's so wrong, so rude! So if you try to accuse people of not investigating the procedure they're doing, if you try to contact a party, someone, us, we'll find thousands of contacts about you, thousands of them. I mean, with the same logic as every Molotover, every gunman, every cop, every terrorist...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0060par0070	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0061par0071	Mr. President, I don't suppose these words of Mr. Canikli are related to our address, do they?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0060par0072	No, no, not as far as I'm concerned.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0061par0073	State it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0062par0074	Mr. President, if you turn on the microphone, I'd like to make a statement regarding the record.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0060par0075	Mr. Hawk, come in, I promise you a minute.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0062par0078	My dear President, let me make it very clear that what is being held here is an act that the tradesman there has committed against the law, and that is our intent and our meaning. But it's been passed here. In this way, I want to make this especially right. In a sentence like this, I've stated that it would be wrong to impose an act outside the law on us and to make the government look like a supporter of these events. I told you yesterday, and I'm telling you today. The arrest must be run as an exceptional institution. The Penal Code clearly states in which cases he will be arrested and referred to the arrest measure. All of my friends know I'm in the general frame of view. I have similar statements in all of my speeches at the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0060par0079	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0062par0080	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0063par0082	Mr. President, now, of course, there's a big difference between the two of them. Between an act of the tradesman's law and an act of extrajudicial action...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0064par0083	He fixed it, sir. He fixed it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0063par0084	I mean, after all this discussion, I'd like to consider it a positive fact that the speaker, Falcon, has come to this stage, but in the previous sentence of this sentence, Mr. Hawk says: What's he gonna do? He has to wrap his arms around the machete. He comes here by making an assessment.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0064par0085	The other tradesman, Mr. President, says the other tradesman.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0065par0086	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0063par0087	Now, here's the thing to be condemned for...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0066par0088	I've made my position very clear.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0063par0089	This machete citizen is not detained after that action, he goes home, the police release him. The security forces have an attitude that supports him. He goes to trial, and the court releases him for trial without arrest, and his assessment is, of course, without arrest.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0067par0090	Why are you interfering with the cause of judgment? No one interferes with your judgment.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0063par0091	I mean, with all this, Mr. Hawk, it means that you're standing behind this action, or this correction doesn't mean the truth, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0068par0092	Sir, the words of Mr. Hawke...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0070par0094	I didn't make that assessment.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0068par0095	Please, Mr. Hawk, sit down, the words are in the middle. Everyone makes their comments.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0096	Mr. President, here...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0070par0097	I've said my piece, but if you can't understand that, I have nothing to say to you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0068par0098	Mr. Hawk, please sit down.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0099	In this regard, Mr. Hawk first explained the reason for these words that we read from the reports, and he said: "Esnaf is in trouble." After that, when I took that promise...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0068par0100	No, there are further explanations, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0101	... And then, this time, I wanted to say in terms of the law, I wanted to say that I was glad that the AKP Group had done so, as a warning from the Deputy Leader of the Group.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0068par0102	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0071par0103	We've expressed our intentions.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0104	I mean, first, you didn't contradict your words, you didn't deny them, you didn't take them back.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0071par0105	Everyone knows what I'm talking about, and if you don't get it!
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0106	You didn't get it back! And you say, "I'm a lawyer."
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0072par0107	You just figured that out?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0069par0108	Does it have to be a stick?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0073par0109	I couldn't bring myself to say it. You tried to break it, but you couldn't.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0074par0113	Yes, I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a proposal given according to the 10th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 08/07/2013 on Monday (now), the General Assembly is scheduled for Tuesday (July 09, 2013) at 14 p.m. It has been deemed appropriate for the General Assembly to present its meeting at 00. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi of Nurettin Canikli Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party The Group's Deputy Chairman's Group Representative I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off from the 1st place in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Commission and the Foreign Commission reports where the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement is appropriate. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th place, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs will continue their talks with the Plan and Budget Commission on the amendments to the Law of the Law and Governments Act. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, the draft of Article 73 (e) was adopted in the fourth chapter of the proposal, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, there are three motions in Article 73 (f), I'm going to read them and process them: In accordance with the law bill on amendments to the laws and laws of 478, the Expo 2020 article 62/5 shall be announced at the end of Article 62/5 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports 73/f. We propose that the sentence be added to the second Monday, which follows each month. Mustafa Moroglu Free Private Levent Gök Kazim Kurt Hülya Trust Musa Pine Bornt Kuşoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğün (x) 478 S. The Numbered Basmaz 3/7/2013 was added to the 129th Union Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. The Article 649 of the Ministry of the European Union, which is intended to be replaced by the f-border, is the 62th Amendment to the provisions of the Law and Law. Article 5. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sakık Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tusel Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act No. 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that the Commission of Planning and Budget Reports be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Şandir Alim Ik Mehmet Günal Article 62 of the provisions of the Constitution of the European Union, dated 8/8/2011 and under the Constitution of the Ministry of the European Union, 649, has been changed as follows. IN 2013, the International Bureau of Exhibitions General Assembly was established in an attempt to determine the city that would host EXPO 2020 (MADDE 62- (1) EXPO 2020) and established the EXPO 2020 Izmir Guidance Board to carry out the work and procedures for the successful completion of the country's candidacy of Izmir province. (2) The bodies of the Governing Body are the Executive Committee and the Secretary General. (3) The revenues of the Governing Body are: A) A grant from the general budget. B) is a grant for the 2012 and 2013 budgets of the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality. C) is the grant of the Izmir Province Special Administration for this purpose in the budgets of 2012 and 2013. The Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, the Izmir Chamber of Commerce, the Union of Aegean Exporters, are held by the Aegean Region Industry Chamber in 2012 and 2013. D) All kinds of broadcasts, advertising and sponsorship revenues. e) The cash and the same donations and benefits from the truth and from the authorities. F) interest and other revenues. (4) The revenues are collected in one of the national banks for this purpose. The Chairman of the Executive Committee is in charge of opening accounts, closing accounts, or moistening accounts collected in the account. The president may hand over his powers to one of the other members of the Executive Committee, or to the Secretary General. (5) The provisions of public tender Act 4/1/2002 and 4734 do not apply in all transactions with the purchases of goods and services within the scope of this clause. The procedures and bases to be implemented in transactions, sales and rental transactions are determined by the Governing Board. Expenses are supervised by the Court. (6) The formation of the Council and its organs and its work bases are determined by the decision of the Council of Ministers of Ministers on the implementation of this clause, along with public institutions and organisations, NGOs and other real or legal institutions that will join the Board of Directors and Executive Committee. (7) The Governing Body of the International Office of Exhibitions of İzmir (Izmir) will continue its activities until further arrangements are made to conduct operations related to EXPO 2020 İzmir. (8) In the absence of the nomination of Izmir (Izmir) from the Office of International Exhibitions, the amount found in the Board of Directors' accounts is carried out under the Council of Ministers' decision and within the framework of the procedures and foundations established by the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0075par0195	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0074par0196	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0076par0197	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0074par0198	Yes, Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0077par0200	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 73 (f). I salute you all. As it is known, the EXPO fairs, which have been held for a hundred and sixty years, have made the cities they were built into brands, and have radically transformed these cities. İzmir is also a candidate for 2020 EXPO and has been arranged. This organization will have a positive effect on the introduction of İzmir and our country. As the National Movement Party, I would like to make it a priority to say that we support any effort to get Izmir to take the EXPO 2020. Smyrna means fair, and Izmir is famous for its potential and talent for the fair and organization. In 1971, the Mediterranean Olympic Games, and in 2005, the Universiade organizations also point to Izmir's ability, potential. In addition, all of this was hosted by the Mediterranean Olympics and the 2005 Universal Games in Manisa. However, I would like to share with you some of the events that have happened over the last year regarding the 2020 EXPO. Indeed, with this arrangement, the government is very sincere and enthusiastic about how to arrange the EXPO 2020. I'll leave it to your appreciation. Dear MPs, there are now U20 football tournaments in Turkey. This worldwide and world-famous football stars have a chance to show themselves, and this tournament, published live on many international televisions, is currently being held in Turkey and the quarter-finals are being held. Iraq, France, Uruguay are in the semifinals, and the finals will be played as of July 13th. Among the 10 provinces nominated for hosting this U20 World Football Championship were Izmir and Manisa. But then, for some reason, this Izmir and Manisa provinces were removed from hosting the U20 tournament. Despite our best efforts in this matter, we have unfortunately not been able to find out the answer and reason necessary by the government. Some cities that we know do not have the conditions that FIFA would want are listed on the list of cities to be held at this U20 World Football Championship, and there has been a very strange excuse for it to not comply with FIFA terms. A very serious opportunity for publicity has been missed in relation to EXPO 2020, and İzmir. Secondly, it was established on 4 July 2002, and then moved to Istanbul on 4 February 2005, where the Future Processing and Opposition Exchange, which took place in İzmir, grew 144 times in seven years, reaching the volume of $431 billion in transactions, becoming the world's 26th largest derivative stock exchange. Again, some exporters and exporters in Istanbul want each sector to have one union. With the government -- to reduce the number of exporters in Turkey -- and the effort to remove the Aegean Exporters' Union in İzmir (Izmir) has been put into effect and this effort continues. Again, while the EXPO initiatives should be a local initiative that the government should have behind its financial moral support and all organizations should be shaped accordingly, unfortunately the organisation has been damaged due to some accounts related to this organisation, and three members, including the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice President, have been forced to resign so far. There's no question that the government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that this activity must be carried out in a serious manner. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0078par0213	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. The Article 649 of the Ministry of the European Union, which is intended to be replaced by the f-border, is the 62th Amendment to the provisions of the Law and Law. Article 5. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Pervin Buldan and his friends. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0079par0220	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0080par0221	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0078par0222	I'm reading the reason: The 5 joke decree will make it difficult for public resources to spend, control and follow, and eliminate accountability for the use of resources. A bilateral regime in terms of spending control will be created between public institutions with similar qualifications or institutions of the public institution. The pursuit of large public resources to spend on the project, and dismantling its control outside the scope of public tender law, will also eliminate budget control, transparency and accountability principles in modern democracies. Law provisions that will be enforced at the point of judicial resolution of irregularities that will occur during the construction of expenditures and the use of public resources are unclear in the proposal. This will cause problems related to the resolution of conflict to arise in a possible judiciary application. For these reasons, the material text has been offered to be changed.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0081par0225	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit02spe0078par0226	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Congressmans, there's not enough decision-making, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision on Article 73 of Law Proposal 478 to vote on the motion of Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. In accordance with the law bill on amendments to the laws and laws of 478, the Expo 2020 article 62/5 shall be announced at the end of Article 62/5 of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports 73/f. We propose that the sentence be added to the second Monday, which follows each month. Mustafa Moroglu (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0082par0010	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0078par0011	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0083par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0084par0013	Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0078par0014	Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0085par0016	Mr. President, members of lawmakers are excited as the work of EXPO 2020 began with the theme "New Roads for a Better World"/For All Health/ExPO 2020, as well as the Izmirian ministers, MPs and all of us. We began work because EXPO 2020 was going to take a huge leap in both the theme of Izmir (Izmir) and it was going to be a major breakthrough. But representatives of all political parties operating in Izmir, pre-2020 -- as our friend just expressed on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party -- tried to ensure that Izmir could successfully complete the outcome of the nomination to EXPO 2020. But it became clear from the very beginning that the twin attitude at the point began from the very beginning to show itself, whether we would be determined to make an effort to bring the EXPO 2020 to Izmir (Izmir). Although these EXPO organizations were first called by the names of the cities and were usually mayors of the steering boards of them, İzmir Metropolitan Mayor was shut down as Chairman of the Guidance Board, our governor was made Chairman of the Guidance Board. They know something, perhaps because of the lack of effort they made in 2015, such effort was made to the EXPO 2020 because of the possibility of better preparation for power. Then we faced a number of other attitudes, as if they were trying not to be taken. The first of them, while preparing for the elections on May 2, 2011, hundreds of policemen were raided at the İzmir Metropolitan City Hall as Paris was preparing for the June 2011 elections, and our Metropolitan Mayor had to return from the EXPO Paris presentation. Again, in November 2011, another raid was made on the Metropolitan Municipality while the presentation was held in Paris. Then what was done? The governor of Izmir, who has made significant efforts to head the Guidance Board so far, has been appointed to Diyarbakır before the process of running has ended. What was followed by another application? Again, in the release of the EXPO Law, the Minister of Culture and Tourism, with significant efforts to prepare the EXPO plans, has been dismissed, and another minister has been appointed. And then what happened? The President of the Industry Chamber, then President of the Future Trade Exchange, now President of the Izmir Trade Exchange and President of the former Football Federation, who served on this Guidance Board, stated that one day they had resigned from the Guidance Board. So when you don't believe in this work from the heart, when you don't believe in it from the heart, whatever I do to this İzmir, I don't think it's possible for me to achieve success in the elections -- about the municipalities and other districts -- it's not possible for me to act on its understanding. We can't help but wonder if the effort was made to avoid it. Then what happened? Here, the EXPO was sent back with changes in plans to be put on hold by the 2020 Law. Then there was an objection. During the last days, a presentation was said to be made abroad, where we were not scheduled to make an arrangement, but were not planned to make plans in the ExPO area in Incirtra, but were tried to be misled by the representations that we presented both as citizens and abroad, as if the city forest of Izmir had set up on 1,250 acres. Of course, the civil society organizations, the architects' room, are rightly opposed. When we compare all of this, we invite members of the ruling and ruling government, ministers of the EXPO, to a more serious work. I will continue to express my thoughts on this matter in our further motions. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0086par0025	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 73 (g) joke (1) There are two motions, I read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the Court of Law and State of Law on Law on Law and State of Law on Amendments in accordance with Article 73 (g) and I propose that the following Article of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way, and shall be offered by Bayınity, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Fear The first sentence of Article 17 of Article 17 of the First Amendment, dated 25/8/2011, has been changed in the following way. Real and legal persons who follow my inspection are obliged to submit, if asked for all documents, notebooks and information, even if it is confidential, to show the document and the equivalent of money and money in the form of demand, to help count and study. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of the 73/g-1 Article of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the Commission for Development, Development, Transport and Tourism, and the Commission for Plan and Budget Commission. Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Levent SkySedef Small Kadir Skymen Reminder Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0087par0046	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0086par0047	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0088par0048	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0086par0049	Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP asking for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0089par0051	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I will continue to explain my thoughts about EXPO. In our previous talks, this motion was left out of the scope of the Public Contraction Agency, with the right spending of EXPO. We find it appropriate for this process to work faster to be excluded from the public tender agency's scope, but in order to make these expenditures transparently possible -- there is an important budget, and the people of Izmir need to know how this budget is being spent in order to win the EXPO. However, I must say that this can also be determined by a directive by the AKP Group Deputy President, and by a regulation that the Guidance Board itself shall draft, as well as by its own guidelines, because it is not possible for us to meet such a request and vote for the motion without meeting a minister, but that it is also acceptable for them to express that it can be determined by the Governing Board of Styles and fundamentals. Now, when the process is run like this, when it's run the way I just described it, of course, the EXPO thing gets tough. The Prime Minister's opening speech at the Mersin Olympics, we'll take the 2020 Olympics, but we'll continue this way. With the saying, a little bit about Izmir, the EXPO 2020, we couldn't help but wonder if these practices have begun to settle down. The reason is that if an important project, such as EXPO 2020, is going to take place in the 2020 Istanbul Olympics, we can't take it back from thinking that if we're going to work as the government, the prime minister, the ministers and all of Turkey, at least as long as we're going to continue to be a country that's been debated here for days, and will continue to be discussed after that, as long as we continue to be a country that can't be handled in peace, we can't take a position because in previous talks by the prime minister, as well as the mayor of the great city, we've been able to continue to be a country that've been remembered by the coups coups. In fact, today, if we want to buy 2020 EXPOs and Olympics, I think we all have to give up our disproportionate position at this Travel Park, our non-communicational attitude, and especially the time after that, I can tell you, we all have to react together -- we've just seen here -- and listen to our criticisms, and we've been warned yesterday by a member of the Prime Minister, and we've all made a statement on the speech of the Prime Minister, and we're all more likely to be able to see what the Prime Minister wants to talk about. Because what was wanted was that after the prime minister became prime minister, after the ministers became minister, after the mayors became mayors, not the minister of their own parties, not the prime minister, not the mayor; this is what we miss, this is what we imagine. Let him be our Prime Minister. Remembering that he is our Prime Minister as well as the Prime Minister of the people who do not vote for him, there is no natural desire for the state to have a conversation at the official openings, at events held by the state's official opportunities, to promote and criticize a conflict between parties, ideological, political, political struggles, or political struggles between parties; it can't be as natural as this. We must all accept it, yes, it must be. You must meet it at first, and we must express that it is the same way to protect the Prime Minister. Again, a friend of ours, Aytug Horseman, expressed how wrong the sentence in parentheses was about a generalization of the Ministry of Health, because that sentence was: we're going to take it out with the next bag of legislation, it's going to be removed. The only thing that needed to be done about it was this: thank you to the Horseman, which is not true, and of course it is not the minister who is going to get the law passed, it is the National Assembly. That's how we can make the dialogue between the opposition and the power between us. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0090par0058	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the Court of Law and State of Law on Law on Law and State of Law on Amendments in accordance with Article 73 (g) and I propose that the following Article of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way, and shall be offered by Bayınity, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends The first sentence of Article 17 of Article 17 of the First Amendment, dated 25/8/2011, has been changed in the following way. Real and legal persons who follow my inspection are obliged to submit, if asked for all documents, notebooks and information, even if it is confidential, to show the document and the equivalent of money and money in the form of demand, to help count and study. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0091par0067	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0090par0068	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0092par0069	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0090par0070	Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0093par0072	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Article 73 (g) bendin (1) no. We're making a statement correction to our motion on the subdivision of the lu. According to this, the real and legal people who are subject to my inspection are obliged to submit all documents, notebooks, and information, even if it is confidential, to make it known and to make it look like a demand and a study. We want to make this clear. On this occasion, dear friends, I'd like to share with you an important subject, an area of trouble that we've all seen from time to time. Dear lawmakers, I think everyone agrees that a life without an automobile can't be thought of, it's not a pleasure, it's almost at the top of the required list of needs. For reasons that urban centers have become jobs, places to move out of the city, places to rest, places to walk away from people, and places to have fun with the neighbors, places to be searched by nuclear families and different places, there is almost no family left without a car. The maintenance of cars that bring with them many problems, especially traffic, has become one of our important spending pencils. The auto services that do these maintenance and repairs don't go through the day so you don't get any complaints, we don't get any. Unfortunately, for years, the interests of consumers, such as Saldim in the meadow, are being violated. Of course, we praise those who work according to the rules, who show their labor, their sweat, and those who seek to earn their daily bread, but they will also appreciate it. There's no mistake in the analogy. A dirty sheep would hurt the whole herd. I'm sure our brothers and sisters want to clean up the rotten apples among them and organize this area most of all, doing their job properly. We understand some of the abuses when we talk to someone in the industry. The methods of ill-intentional service and their employees are very rich. Expensive oil change, said to have been made, but not actually done imaginary repairs, overpriced spare parts prices, replaced without need, renovated parts and brake pads, other spending materials, just a few of them. While the cost of life and almost the most expensive fuel in the world that we're using is obviously killing our people, and the inflating of auto-care costs is really brutal. The citizen expects the introduction of this area from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I'm really curious, is our Ministry of Industry working on this as a regulatory procedure? If so, where's he at? This study is already too late. Why he's waiting is also an argument. The car companies' agencies, who also provide service, clearly say so, valued lawmakers. If we're making $1 from the automobile sale, we're getting $5 from the service fees. In fact, for the sake of his service services later, we give him the car with zero profit. So there's a lot of profit in this area. This area needs to be contained by the government as soon as possible. Foreign automobile companies make their profits in other countries through services around here. And also, you get the same maintenance and repairs that you have in the industry in the service, which is almost three times as expensive. When you go outside the official service, you're relieved of your warranty. You buy a car, you can't go to another service, and you have to accept the prices they impose, sir. That means knowingly robbing your budget. I'd like to address the government here: let no more Turkish people be robbed through these services. In this matter, if necessary, let a joint study of his opposition and power be carried out in our parliament. And as the National Movement Party, I say we are ready to support this work, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0094par0082	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0095par0083	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0094par0084	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision. The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 73 (g) bendi (2) subdivision number two: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. 40 of the State Department of National Education No. 652, which is intended to be replaced by gbend of Article 652, under the rule of law on the Agency and its duties. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ▪ B) Success in the competition exam with a camera recording. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sakık Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Corporate Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nığde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of the Law and Law Law and State Officials Act on Amendments to Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act (2/1613, 1/778) with the Bayınıllik, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) with the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778.) We propose and propose that the 73rd article of the function (g) be replaced as follows by the subbend (2). Alim Işım Mehmet Şandir Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Enver Erdem Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The second, third, and fourth jokes of Article 40 of Law Rule 652 have been changed as follows. In addition to the general conditions listed in Article 48 of State Officers Act 657, it is dated 14/7/1965 to be appointed as assistant supervisor: A) Graduating at least four years of undergraduate education, science, law, political knowledge, economics and administrative sciences, economics, business schools, or higher education institutions adopted by the Board of Higher Education or abroad. B) Success in the competition exam. (3) Those assigned to the Vice-Constructor's Office are entitled to take the competency exam, provided they are accepted by a thesis jury, in which they will prepare a thesis on things that will be put into practice for at least three years and which will be determined by the unit they are employed for. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis will be given an extension of six months to present their thesis or prepare a new thesis. The ability of those who have succeeded in the qualifying exam to be appointed to the National Education Controller's staff depends on having it within two years at the latest from another document that is considered equal to the minimum (C) level (C) or language competence. Those who fail the test or fail the test without a valid excuse will be given a second test in one year. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis for the second time, those who fail or fail the second exam or fail the right to a test, and those who fail to meet the requirement for foreign language competence during their time, lose the title of Assistant Inspector and are appointed to officers in accordance with their position at the Ministry. (4) The regulations organise matters related to the training, upbringing, competition exam, pre-preparation and competency examinations of auditory assistants. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws in accordance with the laws and laws of law and the laws of state and the laws of law shall be made in accordance with the laws and laws of law. 2. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Levent Sky Mighty Skymen Reminder Securities Small Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0096par0117	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0094par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0097par0119	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0094par0120	Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP asking for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0098par0122	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, many of us may have been elected to the House this semester; before we were elected, we were watching Congress because we were interested in politics, but watching is one thing, living is another. Since we first arrived, I want to continue with an assessment of the relationship between lawmakers in power and opposition and groups, and I want to be very clear that I'm not very happy about it, and I want to make it clear that the next two years we're going to have with our fellow lawmakers are all of us, regardless of the difference in the party, should we review ourselves once again. Because as we just saw in this example, if we listen to what's being said here, he can see the right or wrong side of the criticism, and sometimes he seems to be a slip of the tongue, and in the future... because we're doing politics for all of us and the people. We need to see that every word we say means something, that every sentence we say can ultimately reflect against the public. For that, there are ways to make our objections contemporary. When a friend of ours was just talking about the incident with the Travel Park incident, if we hadn't listened, we wouldn't have allowed him to correct a wrong sentence he made. And since we've given you the opportunity to fix it, I think it's better that our efforts in the Parliamentary studies are made by listening and listening to the answer. When we talk about this with our fellow AKP MPs and our other fellow MPs, the Parliament has a culture like this, it comes and goes like this. I don't accept this objection, this right, my dear friends, that if we continue walking in the same way, we will die slowly. And if we don't support the work of this House, especially the members of the ruling legislature, and we don't fix it in the next two years, we're not on the right track, and we're not going to be able to accomplish a lot of things. We've stated over and over again that we never approve of the fight here and that we can't approve of it. We must never allow this to happen again. For example, everyone learned a lesson from the Travel Park issues. It seems that the AKP MPs and our ruling ministers have learned nothing. Because you may not be able to agree with everything there, and you may not think about a lot of things the way we do, but I also think that the Resistance of the Travel Park and all the right-to-right actions in the country are a lesson that you should learn, especially for the sake of the Parliament's work. I'm joining the Travel Park forums. I agree to support them, to understand their thoughts, to listen. Believe me, I've seen what I've seen in the Forums in the Travel Park sample. Everyone comes and talks freely. Without looking at their numbers, you are few, we are many. Without saying, they allow everyone to speak their thoughts and live freely in those parks. Let's at least get this lesson out, and to keep each other from interrupting each other, and to make sure that they don't motivate each other in the negative and positive way, they're especially, I want my friends to watch -- without clapping an opinion that they've agreed to -- they're quietly supporting each other by acting with their hands like this. If they don't approve... here's one of our deputies who's crazy like that. I mean, that's not how it works, that's not how it works. Look, ever since I've been here, I've made it a point to start talking when it's my turn to stop talking to any of my congressman friends. And I think that's more accurate because it's up to all of us to contribute to the sanctity of this institution. Which means we understand each other. That's how they signal against the thoughts they reject, so I don't agree. They call it. If it extends, you're far away. They call it. Well, let's not be this long, but, please, when we're talking to each other, they yell out loud, especially when some friends sit in the back like they're on staff, and I can't understand what they're saying or if they're telling the truth. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope we'll all form the coven we've been dreaming of. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0099par0128	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nığde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of the Law and Law Law and State Officials Act on Amendments to Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act (2/1613, 1/778) with the Bayınıllik, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) with the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778.) We propose and propose that the 73rd article of the function (g) be replaced as follows by the subbend (2). Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends The second, third, and fourth jokes of Article 40 of Law Rule 652 have been changed as follows. In addition to the general conditions listed in Article 48 of State Officers Act 657, it is dated 14/7/1965 to be appointed as assistant supervisor: A) Graduating at least four years of undergraduate education, science, law, political knowledge, economics and administrative sciences, economics, business schools, or higher education institutions adopted by the Board of Higher Education or abroad. B) Success in the competition exam. (3) Those assigned to the Vice-Constructor's Office are entitled to take the competency exam, provided they are accepted by a thesis jury, in which they will prepare a thesis on things that will be put into practice for at least three years and which will be determined by the unit they are employed for. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis will be given an extension of six months to present their thesis or prepare a new thesis. The ability of those who have succeeded in the qualifying exam to be appointed to the National Education Controller's staff depends on having it within two years at the latest from another document that is considered equal to the minimum (C) level (C) or language competence. Those who fail the test or fail the test without a valid excuse will be given a second test in one year. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis for the second time, those who fail or fail the second exam or fail the right to a test, and those who fail to meet the requirement for foreign language competence during their time, lose the title of Assistant Inspector and are appointed to officers in accordance with their position at the Ministry. (4) The regulations organise matters related to the training, upbringing, competition exam, pre-preparation and competency examinations of auditory assistants. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0100par0141	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0099par0142	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0101par0143	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0099par0144	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0102par0145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've actually been watching speeches since the beginning of the day, and the days before that, the same. We don't agree with the commission as a habit. The government says we don't agree, we can't participate. I'm looking at lawmakers, and in these conversations, there's only one person who listens to what's being said, and the others are having a few conversations among themselves. Now, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the legislature, the highest body in Turkey. Here, the opposition talks about some issues, tells them what's missing, gives them an opinion on what they want to be corrected, whether they agree or not, it's true, whether the government agrees or disagrees, but at least these talks need to be heard, and conversation needs to be paused, because there's a serious job being done. I'm saying it's a serious job because the republic's been established for 90 years. In 90 years, it's strange that if you look at the reports, the most talked about in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is about issues related to the Ministry of National Education -- a system that has been unresolved by the general structure of the Ministry of National Education for 90 years. It's constantly replaced, no credit style, no class passing, no 5+3, 3+5, 4+4+4, but then somehow it's a concept that changes all of that, not three months later, not a year later. Indeed, valued MPs, I sincerely say, look, there are two ministries with the name "National Education Ministry" and one with the Ministry of National Defence. You all know the meaning of the word "National" meaning that it belongs to the nation, its culture, its value, its understanding. We call it national, it belongs to the nation, it represents an understanding that encompasses the entire nation. Now, if you haven't been able to get your education system back on track in 90 years in a high-profile and valuable institution like the Ministry of National Education, if you haven't been able to determine what goals to serve, and if you're constantly making changes in textbooks, I'm sorry, but what are you going to inspect? First, you need to get the system in place so you can get to the control system. Look, this is where the biggest weakness comes from. So from what we're seeing here, there's talks about how they can be assigned to assistant inspectors, or there's stuff about that coming out. Sir, before we do that, we need to figure out how to control what those people are going to control. Look, I'll give you an example: this isn't the way it works, so it's not going to work if this government or this government changes it all the time. I'm telling you this, including these appointments, which are at the bottom of this job, you need to get a position on merit. If you, above all, have not yet proven yourself to certain regions, if you are appointing people who have started teaching as a sort of exile zone, if you are supposed to assign experienced people to them, if you are not doing so, you will not be able to achieve success without providing experience in the easier places. Sir, you couldn't solve the problem, whether it was YIBO or just regular schools. Still, you can't say that even in the middle of Asia Minor, like Kayseri, even in a province where it's said to be developed, if you're still training with a transport system, you've put education in order. Dear lawmakers, one of the most twisted issues of the system in Turkey is the question of whether or not people of merit should be brought to their rightful place, or whether they should be taken from there for political reasons or not. Even in a state like the Ottoman state that lived seven hundred years ago, there is a law of righteousness. It's been determined who can come to what task after what tasks. So, after he was in office, he was given the opportunity to serve directly without any setbacks. So we have to take the system from the root and really make it useful to this country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0103par0153	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. 40 of the State Department of National Education No. 652, which is intended to be replaced by gbend of Article 652, under the rule of law on the Agency and its duties. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. ίb) Success in the competition exam with a camera recording. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0104par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0103par0162	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0105par0163	We can't agree, Mr. President. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0106par0165	Dear lawmakers, this is a motion we propose that the trials, the exams, the interview be transparent, the auditable, and that the interview that can give the court these recordings in case of objection be recorded with a camera. Now, I'm going to call it a mercy, a hand conscience, because it's official record that there are millions of unemployed people in Turkey, where unemployment reaches 12 percent. We know that there are people who have been eliminated in the interview, even though they've been graded at KPSS exams, even though they've been graded at a very high degree in other exams, and that part of the interview, according to the mentality, no matter what power -- look, I'm telling you -- there's AKP power today, the AKP has its own partisans, it's getting its own people; tomorrow another power comes in, and he gets what's right for him. Especially in sensitive missions, especially in law enforcement, the police, the Foreign Office, in important missions, interviewing questions to rule out the competitions on television. Now, let's remove this torpedo, folks, and let's remove this defect; let's take care of this man of our own. Let's tear down his mentality; let's let every citizen of the Republic of Turkey take a heart test and rely on his knowledge to get in the gate; we have to do this. Don't let anyone say I'm in power. Now, it's my staffing, I do it, I do it. It's been done, it's been done, it's been done, it's been done, it's been sung, it's still being sung. In Angara, let me kiss your hands Hasso, do a favor. These are still read. It's the 21st century, guys. Can't we just get this primasso out of the way? I mean, can't we just make sure that a poor parent's child, an orphan teacher, an officer, has access to the government gate by their own means? There's one person who thinks they've been beaten in the exam... here's five people taking the test, three of them being the children of the ruling party, four of them being the opposition; well, the rulings have won the interview, and the opposition all of them seem to have failed the interview. This interview is no good to anyone, folks. You get it today, you get people you know, you get your party members. Every party does it, unfortunately, but it didn't bring any good to this country. In order for this country to achieve charity, 76 million of our citizens must compete under equal conditions to become civil servants; let us record that. Why? If a person thinks they've been tested and violated and violated, and they're going to go to trial, they should be able to present the camera footage of that interview to the court when they go to trial. So if he can't present it, if it's not understood why he can't pass the exam, how will the judiciary determine the abuse of duty here, how will it be determined? That's not possible. There's only one way to do this, folks: there's everything in this bag of law, but we want to add some equality, add some justice with this motion; with this motion, we want everyone not to have an uncle in this country; with this motion, we want everyone to look for a torpedo, and we want to give it to your attention. Not much more interviews, friends to record. Your appreciation, your conscience.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0107par0171	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0108par0173	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit03spe0107par0174	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0107par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough to vote on subdivision number (2) under Article 73 (g) of Law Proposal 478. Now I'm going to re-offer the item to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, it's accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there are 2 motions in sub-arrange number 1 of Article 73 (e.g.), which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Law Laws Act and the drafting of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and the subsidiary of the Constitutional Act on the Amendment of some Law and Laws and Laws were proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Münir Kutluata Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Shandır The second joke of Article 17 of the Constitution of Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry, dated 26/9/2011, has been changed as follows. ) The administration of the Editor-in-Chief of Control Services and inspectors are organised by regulations on the work and basis of the training, training of assistant inspectors, competition examinations, prescribing and competency exams. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the draft of the Charter of the Law and the Commission of Development, Development and Tourism and Budget Commissions 73/g-1 shall be removed from the bill, under the Law and Law Act. Kazim Kurt Sakine Free Special Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Kadir Gökmen Öğün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0109par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0107par0026	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0110par0027	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0107par0028	Aykan Erdemir, MP of Bursa, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0111par0029	No, Aykan, you're talking in two.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0112par0030	Sorry.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0107par0031	Speaking on the motion, Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0113par0033	Congressmans, I'm sorry if I caused such confusion because I wanted to express my thoughts knowing that these motions were an opportunity throughout the entire world. Really, I have a dream about the Parliamental studies that I've expressed in previous motions. Hopefully, I'll have a lot of fellow lawmakers who share this dream because we're all watching, watching, watching, all the talks in this House or in the street or in the square or in the factory or around us. Indeed, our country, our environment is a place of fire. Especially in the last few months -- don't think I'm just referring to Travel Park events -- we've got people who commit suicide because of unemployment, we've had methane disasters, we've had car accidents. And on top of that, if we continue to act in a way that doesn't understand the situation with this Travel Park situation and we start fighting to understand it, instead of putting out the fire in our country, we're really going to have an attitude to pour gasoline into the fire, which is a crime for all of us in the future. Speaking of places of fire, six days ago, on July 2nd, I'd like to remind you again of a fire 20 years ago, that we're going to get a mission out of here, and I'd like to address you as an MP who knows it's a duty to live in this fire site: ▪ Living in this place of fire, By dying again every day, A prisoner in the hands of the tyrant, A victim of ignorance. In the soiled air that lies, With difficulty breathing. The truth of defense, often Knowing your loneliness. The coward, the turncoat, the silence To see and be filled with rage. ♪ Gathering dead friends ♪ Every one of them comes from somewhere. And the noose around some of them's necks, By erasing some of your blood. He embraces me, Metin Sixok, "Don't worry about it," he says, laughing. To live is to stay human. All my fellow lawmakers can do an accounting of the two periods we've been through in their hearts, and then two semesters later, we can be able to leave this House without thinking about whether or not we'll ever come back. (CHP) Because the most important truth that we all need to know is that there is no victory earned by anger. We can't get mad at each other and tell each other we're thinking straight. We can't solve the country's problems by insulting each other. We are faced with such important problems that each of us, each of us, when we stand on this stand, express that we know the gravity, the weight of these problems. So we also need to know that none of these problems can be solved without considering the thoughts, sensitivities of all the trends represented or not represented in this Parliament. Of course, the main task here falls to lawmakers of the ruling party. Not to the Prime Minister or the Minister, my dear friends, it falls to the ruling party's MPs. Don't think I don't mean that he's fallen into the entire House, because it's the Parliament that's taking out the Prime Minister and the Minister. They're going to run with the decisions of this House, and with the decisions of this House, they're going to decide whether it's right or wrong. I said the same thing in my first speech in this House, and I'm going to finish by saying the same thing in the last speech of this semester. And we need to know that none of us, when we are born from our mothers, are made to feel human feelings; none of us, any of us, will have a grudge against each other, hate each other, take his rights as his rights, and deny him his rights. It's all because of our selfishness, our inner self, our feelings for the blessings this world has given us. So I say that the more we can reduce alienation to ourselves, the more we can work to return to the purity of the day we were born, the more we can help put this nation's fire out on that level. I wish you all good work in the new era, good luck.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0114par0059	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit04spe0115par0060	I repeat: I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will search for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's a disagreement between the clerks, I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The 1st subcommittee under Article 73 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal (G) of the 478 Orders was not enough to vote on the proposal of İzmir MP Mustafa Moroglu and his friends. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for amendments in the Law and Law Laws Act and the drafting of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and the subsidiary of the Constitutional Act on the Amendment of some Law and Laws and Laws were proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The second joke of Article 17 of the Constitution of Transport, Maritime and Communications Ministry, dated 26/9/2011, has been changed as follows. ) The administration of the Editor-in-Chief of Control Services and inspectors are organised by regulations on the work and basis of the training, training of assistant inspectors, competition examinations, prescribing and competency exams. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0116par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0115par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0117par0013	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0115par0014	Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0118par0016	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the grounds of Article 73 of legal regulation 478. I salute the High Council. It concerns the Ministry of Transport and Communications. With this relationship, I would like to express a problem with the transportation of Sakarya. The issue is that the province of Sakarya and neighbouring Düzce are unable to establish a healthy road link to the Black Sea coast. A narrow throat between Kocaali and Akça husband, the neighbouring counties of both provinces, has not been repaired. The coast road from Zonguldak to Akçaqa has ended after a few miles west of this district. On the other hand, the coast road from Sakarya via Karasu and Kocaali is cut off after reaching Melen Water. The connection can be made through village roads that pass through the village. It's only a five-mile stretch. Because such a short distance can't be connected, this line, which has a lot of traffic, can't function. The coast of Sakarya Province, between the Sakarya River and Melen Tea, is 35km long on the coasts of the districts of Karasu, Kocali, Turkey's largest beaches. This particular region has been Indianized in terms of domestic tourism, Düzce, Bolu, Ankara and Zonguldak in the east. Hence, great difficulties and time are being wasted in the region, especially in the spring and summer months, with heavy traffic. On the other hand, the potential to be reconnected from Adapazar to Izmit. In our internal tourism development work on the region, it turns out that the lack is a major obstacle to both the potential of Sakarya (Sacarya) and the potential of the Alexandrian region. During the budget talks, Mr. Transport Minister and its interests were forwarded several times, but the production cost was low, and the deficit cost to the region was not satisfied. Later, after a meeting with the General Manager of the Highways, we learned that the matter was accelerating a little bit, and that it would accelerate even more after today's contact. I'd like to bring this back to the attention of our Minister of Transport and its relevant bureaucrats. I'd like to touch another problem of Sakarya, as my time allows. This is a matter of cancellations in Turkey, which have recently made a lot of use in Turkey. Therefore, Turkey is also the problem, but for some reason it is more intense in Sakarya. I'm talking about the suffering of families whose deeds have been revoked by the court through both the Ministry of Forests and the Treasury. We've mentioned this several times before, asked 2/B to be resolved in legal arrangements, and we've submitted motions, but the government has yet to take a step to eliminate the losses of the deed in the entire country or in Sakarya. Finally, the deeds of several families in the villages of Ağmababaşı and Karapelit in the districts of Sakarya Province have been cancelled during the cadastro work in 2005. In addition, each of these citizens has been charged with over 35,000 Turkish liras in court and legal fees. Not only did they lose their property, they were pushed into a debt they wouldn't pay. The government's deed has become an untrustworthy environment, with the loss of property increasing day by day. When we bring up the cancellations of the deed, it's the judgment of power, what should we do? We see it being pulled aside. How is it possible for a citizen to win a lawsuit at the gate of the state... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that can't be shown, and unfortunately, the law can't help it. I'd like to bring you back to the attention of the concerned, all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0024	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: III. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6, PHP 4)
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0120par0028	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0029	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Special, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Sun, Mr. Chosen, Mr. Altay, Mr. Koç, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Köse, Mr. Güven, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dirt. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Now, of Article 73 (g) bendi (2) no. There are two motions on the lu subdivision...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0121par0042	Alt (2) now, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0043	Bottom, bottom.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0122par0044	Sub (2) (g) sub (2).
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0121par0045	Mr. President, I don't know why we graduated from this law, if that's the way they're gonna bring it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0046	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0121par0047	I swear, they never taught me that in law school, upside down, top...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0048	I'm having the motions read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law shall make changes in the Laws of Law and Governments Act 478; and the Commission of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of the 73rd Amendment in Articles of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and I shall propose the subsidiary and subsidiary of the following Article (2). Münir Kutluata Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Enver Erdem Alim İlk Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The second joke (a) and (b)bents of Article 28 of Article No. 655 have been changed in the following way. They are authorized and authorized to predict administrative procedures in the form of warning, interim activation and abortion of authority, and to apply them to those who are in violation. B) In which cases will be implemented and the amount of its service units in the 7th Articles are in charge of establishing or organising or organising administrative fines for violations, up to two hundred and fifty thousand Turkish liras, up to five million Turkish liras, until the 12th Articles, according to the 5th and 10th Articles, according to the service units in Articles 9th and 10th. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws in accordance with the laws and laws of law and the laws of state and the laws of law shall be made in accordance with the laws and laws of law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Kazim Kurt Aykan Erdemir Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Sedef Little Sakine Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0123par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0070	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0124par0071	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0119par0072	Aykan Erdemir who wants to speak on the motion is the MP of Bursa.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0125par0074	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group for Article 655, which is intended to be replaced by Article 73 (g) subdivision of Bag Number 478. I salute the High Council and our people. Dear lawmakers, on 26 September 2011, you had determined the department and its duties of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications under a decree of law. In less than twenty-two months from today, you want to change the rule of law to a bag of laws. I'd like to ask: If there was a conservative party in Turkey today, if it were a conservative power, would that be possible? Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan says that if my party was a conservative and democratic, we are not Islamist, we do not want an Islamic state, we defend family and traditions, we are like a conservative and democratic party ruled by the European criteria. As you know, conservativeism is an advanced political philosophy in its current sense after the French Revolution. François René de Chateaubriand first used the concept of "conservative" in 1819. The experience of the French Revolution has led him to shape the romance movement in literature, the Catholic Church in politics, and the conservative ideology that advocates the monarchy. Another reaction to the French revolution came from the Irish philosopher Edmund Burke. Look what Edmund Burke says: they laid mines underground to blow up all ancient examples, all the precedents, laws, and privileges of Parliament in a massive explosion. An alternative formula cannot be presented to them, and no argument can be binding for them, they do not wish to compromise or find a middle way, and anything that does not fully comply with their demands is dishonest and unjust to them. Because for conservatives who believe in tradition, ancient values, continuity, safety, caution, small steps, and small steps, there is no way to imagine a process of life that has turned into a society engineering, bag of laws and a summerboard. Now, based on these strange contradictions, we can see that politics, which is in power in Turkey today, is traditionally conservative. One of Turkey's leading scientists, my resident Bursalı Güven Sak Hodja, says: "No tradition is conservative, no meat, no milk is like yogurt." And he adds: "I don't think a country that can't protect its industry can't protect its industry." Can we get the right share out of this story? Prime Minister Erdogan said that they appeared as a political party with a conservative democratic identity, that it would be impossible to say otherwise. I'd like to ask: can a leader who doesn't own historical heritage, cultural heritage, natural heritage be conservative?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0126par0079	He's in your eye.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0125par0080	I'd like to ask: Can the power that has planted the most bizarre TOKI project in the history of Turkey in the embrace of the Ottoman capital of Burma be a conservative? Can those who destroy the image of the Great Mosque, the Green Turbé, and many other spiritual treasures for the sake of the runt be conservative? Can those who break the image of the historical peninsula in Istanbul be conservative, and those who change it for the sake of the vantage? Dear lawmakers, it's time to look in the mirror, time for self-criticism. Emergenism, community engineering, the legislature, of course, is a political style, an approach, but it's not conservative, it never has been. So, Turkey, today, needs a conservative party more than ever, and we know that politics doesn't take space. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0127par0084	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law shall make changes in the Laws of Law and Governments Act 478; and the Commission of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of the 73rd Amendment in Articles of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and I shall propose the subsidiary and subsidiary of the following Article (2). Münir Kutluata (Sakaria) and his friends The second joke (a) and (b)bents of Article 28 of Article No. 655 have been changed in the following way. They are authorized and authorized to predict administrative procedures in the form of warning, interim activation and abortion of authority, and to apply them to those who are in violation. B) In which cases will be implemented and the amount of its service units in the 7th Articles are in charge of establishing or organising or organising administrative fines for violations, up to two hundred and fifty thousand Turkish liras, up to five million Turkish liras, until the 12th Articles, according to the 5th and 10th Articles, according to the service units in Articles 9th and 10th. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0128par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0127par0095	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0129par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0127par0097	Yes, it's Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0130par0099	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you again. I'd like to talk to you about the law enforcement of this bag of legislation that eases the seriousness of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. At the beginning of my words, I said "legal regulation" because you can't say "legal legislation" because it's also a legal proposal. If you call it a law proposal, you can't express the situation for the same reason, the confusion starts here. This arrangement is also an arrangement based on the needs of power, rather than the needs of the nation and the country. It's not just any bag of laws. Since the government applied at the end of its legislative term, the Torba law also has its own reputation. According to the Constitution and as it should be, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The High Assembly must observe this quality when it performs its legislature. His laws should be qualified to strengthen Turkey's ability to be a state of law. When viewed from this point of view, the way you make a law called a bag of law should not be accepted as a method of law. It must be an exceptional way to make certain different arrangements meet within a law. It can only be accepted in situations that can be tolerated within the atmosphere of legislation free from the pressure of execution. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey should not be the place where the order of the legal arrangement for the removal of its responsibility -- due to the current needs of power -- due to its arbitrary actions. The fact that this law-enforcement freak, called the law and law-enforcement freak in this period of power, has been around so much, on the other hand, the rule of law in which the Turkish Parliament is in charge of the Grand National Assembly indicates that the rule of law and governance of the country will be averted. It is an environment in which the state of law is lost more and more and more and more, and the understanding of the state of law is dominated. Since playing so often and irregularly with the law has not developed the legal system and destroyed it on the contrary, insisting on this path will mean preparing the legal cover of relief from responsibility. It is another sign of our concern that almost every law should be adopted into the basic law of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that it should be removed in this way, and that it should not be discussed in this way. If it is not accepted that the law should benefit from the discussion of the articles of the law, that it should contribute to a better law being made, then the bill must at least be well prepared. We're doing everything, there's no need for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to contribute. If it's called the Law, then let it go for at least three or five years without being touched. Please do not bring a new law into the presence of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey over and over again by squeezing it into some bags several times in the same year. This arrangement that we're discussing includes all the regrets I've mentioned because of the fact that there is a bag of laws and a fundamental law. The image contains 76 majors, 2 temporary substances, but only 140 substances and 2 temporary substances. I'd like to bring up something that Mr. Free Private Congress Member here yesterday touched on to prove exactly this point. It's very disappointing, it's very traumatic, it's said in an official document, published and distributed under the name Human Resource Planning Guide of the municipal health departments: (These articles have been cancelled by the Constitutional Court, but the first bag will be removed in accordance with the law.(sing) I'm moving from here (sing) [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the validity of the laws in Turkish law laws is only until the government has passed a new bag of legislation...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0131par0108	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0132par0110	Mr. President, you may be in a hurry, but the Minister will finish the statement, and the General Assembly will say hello.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0131par0111	No, Mr. Vural, I'm in no hurry. And just now, Mr...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0132par0112	Yes, he can. But that's rude, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0131par0113	I'm not going to learn about kindness from anyone, first of all, don't be sorry.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0133par0114	It doesn't extend, it doesn't do anything.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0131par0115	How many times do I have to thank the orator here, but it's become a habit.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0134par0116	No, sir, what habit? It's not a habit.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0133par0117	Mr. Kutluata has never been in such a habit, nor has he ever.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0131par0118	I just had to take a break. Mr. Vural, I'm going to get the transcripts on the word you just used. I don't think I heard that.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0133par0119	I mean, now, when did Mr. Kutluata do this? Have you seen the behavior of Mr. Kutluata for five years?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0135par0120	I mean, you can't even...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0136par0121	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0135par0122	Mr. President, your vote has been against the rules, because you voted before you even got off the stand, before you got off the stand, so it can't be put to a vote until the witness's speech is over.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0123	No, I didn't vote, sir, I didn't vote.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0135par0124	You did it wrong, you did it wrong.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0125	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not stand on the stand when the time is complete as much as the courtesy I have shown you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0135par0126	So, okay, what's it gonna be, sir? Twenty seconds, does that mean you have to be rude?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0127	There's nothing rude about it, sir, please...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0135par0128	For God's sake, you're still defending me!
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0138par0129	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0130	Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0138par0131	Mr. President, I didn't say another sentence, and I didn't ask for anything in that direction. But since the microphone was cut off before I finished my sentence, you really didn't have to warn me again before I finished my sentence.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0132	No, I didn't warn you, sir. I just said thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0138par0133	Because that's what it means to thank you for my words. You could've given me a chance to finish my sentence because here stenographers have to record them. It's not nice not to tolerate a sentence being finished.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0134	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0139par0135	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0136	Yes, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, I'll give you a minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 1 of Article 73 (h). There are two proposals in the lower half, I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 73-h-1 of the Article 23 of Article 23 (c) and (c)benefits of Article 23 of Article 23 (c) have been changed in the following way. The Article 23 (c) of Article 23 (c) has been changed in Article 7 (c) and (c) in Article 23 (c). Aytuğ Atı Bkent Kuşoğlu Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for amendments to the Law and Law Act on Laws and State Officials Act and the proposal for the amendment of Article 73 (h) of Articles (2/1613, 1/778) of Plans and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) was proposed by me to propose the subsidiary of the Article (1) and to submit the proposal for the amendment of the amendments in Articles under the Law and Law. Ali Öz Reşat Right Enver Erdem Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Mehmet Şandir Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Iş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0140par0158	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0159	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0141par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0142par0161	Dear Ali Öz...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0137par0162	Yes, Ali Öz, MP of Mersin, who wants to make a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0143par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the motion that we have made regarding the 73rd joke of Law 478 rows (h). I salute the High Council. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Now, here we are, of course, discussing a substance that we should really focus on that would make it easier for physicians to be removed from the profession, even though they've been heavily burdened over it for ten years. When we think back and look at it, it's a fact that it's not possible for any physician to actually make these mistakes, these flaws consciously. However, while the authority to punish these physicians has been implemented by the Medical Association after some investigations, authority is completely... I think it's not in the best interest of this country to have a small number of medics in it, and to exclude the Turkish Medical Association, a professional organisation of doctors, and to ban physicians from the profession, and to keep the physicians under further threat. Here, in particular, we're suspending you from your job from one year to three years for causing severe disability or death, and in five years, you'll be suspended from your job. It is important to consider the recent overcoming of physicians, especially in the last ten years, the publicization of performance systems, especially in hospitals, and the shortening of the time for a physician to devote to a patient, the increased chance of making mistakes. Although the performance system in health over and over again is not a quality-enhancing method in health, the doctor shortens the time between the patient and the doctor to listen to the patient's problems, although we have repeatedly stated that the actual -- the actual practice of medicine and Tababet -- the length of the meeting with the doctor face-to-face with the patient will be more beneficial for our country, lowering the economic cost to the budget, preventing unnecessary and unnecessary examinations from being conducted. What's really important here at the point of execution of the practice of medicine is that 75 million, 76 million people living in our country applied to clinics ten years ago with an average of 2.3, while at 8.2 today, we created a significant increase in individual applications. The fact that people have been able to reach more and more freely does not mean that the quality of service is increasing as well. Of course, we haven't made any changes in health care in Turkey over the past decade, none of which have been in the best interest of the country or of the country. We don't make a statement like this, but when these arrangements are not increasing quality in health care in Turkey, we don't think that quality is reduced day-to-day, the need for physicians is becoming more and more serious, despite the fact that the problems that the physicians face in the next period are becoming more and more severe, at the point where citizens are getting health care, especially when they're applying to normal state institutions, especially the differences that are being paid in private hospitals. Economic recovery requires emphasis on the need to improve the rights of physicians. As we have expressed in our previous talks today, it is truly sad that we have not been able to correct the improvement in the rights of an expert who has worked in the public office for thirty years, who has fallen to the first degree, who has retired, even though we have a large number of our fellow physicians in this Parliament. I hope this will be resolved quickly, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0144par0174	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 73-h-1 of the Article 23 of Article 23 (c) and (c)benefits of Article 23 of Article 23 (c) have been changed in the following way. The Article 23 (c) of Article 23 (c) has been changed in Article 7 (c) and (c) in Article 23 (c). Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0145par0181	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0144par0182	Does the government agree? We don't agree. It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0146par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to discuss our motion on Article 73/h-1 of Bill 478, which we are discussing. I salute lawmakers who respect the Constitution. My dear friends, this is a motion, a clause that changes a clause in Article 663 of the Law. It was a decree issued by the Ministry's bureaucrats alone and only by the Ministry of Health bureaucrats, and it contained very, very important changes to health, none of which were carried out without discussion. But unfortunately, thanks to you, in a very short period of time, the Court of Law 663 has been reduced to crap, turned into a rag, canceled the Constitutional Court, tried to change it, the people have objected, tried to change it. The only reason is because I know best, and no one knows better than I do. You make the law with logic. Look, I'm going to prove this to you with an example: the Constitutional Court has cancelled this clause. You brought this substance back just by changing one word and one word only. Change of words can sometimes be very important. A word, a letter, sometimes a point, can change the meaning of everything, but now I'm reading the sentence that you've changed and made fun of the Constitutional Court, which says before: "The Constitutional Court is canceling its outcome during the practice, and you say: "For God's sake, what's the difference between predicting the outcome and predicting the outcome?" Now, look, the Constitutional Court is drawing your attention, saying, "Sister, you're doing the wrong thing, you're doing the wrong thing. What are you doing? You're changing one word, and you're changing it in the same way. Now, there's a lot to talk about on this stuff, but I'm going to tell you a lot about the spirit of matter. Now, we've discussed the technical, legal dimension of matter. What does the substance bring? Paramedics, doctor's deputies; please listen carefully, because if you do, you will suffer a lifetime of remorse. It says: "If the medics neglect their duties and cause a weightless obstacle in any human being, I will ban them from the profession for three months to one year, if they cause a severe obstacle or cause death, I will suspend them from the profession for one to three years, and again I will remove them from the profession for life." Okay, if a doctor makes a mistake by predicting a medic, we have no objection, we have no objection to it at all. So, who makes this decision, that's what matters, who makes this decision? Who's the one who's going to ban all these years of doctors from their jobs? Board of Health Careers. So, who's this board made up of? Look, there's 15 of them. Of these 15, only one of them comes from the professions, 14 of them are cast by the government; 14 of them are cast by the government. Well, let's just say that AKP has a way of doing everything, I do everything, I know everything, I do what I say. So, do you know how many of these 15 people are medics? Only and only six of them. I mean, you're suspending a doctor from a board where six of them are medics, nine of them aren't paramedics. For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience, doctors, lawmakers, medics, think about it; tomorrow when you get out of these seats, when you go back to work, how dare you look at your colleagues. Take that into consideration and vote accordingly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0147par0192	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit05spe0148par0193	Thank you. I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't agree... there's not enough decision-making, so I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0148par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in voting the motion of Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı and his friends on the number (1) subcommittee of Article 73 (h) of the Law Proposal 478. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, of Article 73 (h) bendin (2) no. There's two motions on the lu subdivision, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law shall make changes in the Constitution; the Court of Law and the Court of State of Law and the Court of State shall propose that I myself (h) be changed in the following manner (i.e., the Court of Law and Law) shall be changed in the following way, and shall be offered by Bayınıl, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The second, third and fourth jokes of Article 44 of the Law Rule No. 663 have been changed as follows. In addition to the general conditions listed in Article 48 of State Officers Act 657 to be appointed as assistant supervisor, the following conditions are sought: a) Graduating from institutes of higher education that provide at least four years of licensing in areas related to the ministry and its members' duties, or from higher education institutions in the country or abroad, which are accepted by the Higher Education Council. B) Success in the competition exam. (3) Those assigned to the Vice-Constructor's Office have the right to take the competency exam, provided the thesis jury accepts the thesis, which they will prepare for at least three years of actual work and which will be determined by the unit they are employed for. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis will be given an extension of six months to present their thesis or prepare a new thesis. The ability of those who have succeeded in the qualifying exam to be appointed to the Health Controller's staff depends on having it within two years of an internationally valid certificate, at a minimum (C) level (C) or on the level of language competence. Those who fail the test or fail the test without a valid excuse will be given a second test in one year. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis for the second time, those who fail or fail the second exam or fail the right to a test, and those who fail to meet the requirement for foreign language competence during their time will lose their title and will be assigned to officers who will fit their position in the Ministry or in their institutions. (4) The regulations organise matters related to the training, upbringing, competition exam, pre-preparation and competency examinations of auditory assistants. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the release of the 73/h-2 Articles of Plan and Budget Commission Reports from the bill with the Bill of the Law and Law on Amendments in accordance with the Law and Laws of State Officers Act. Kazim Kurt Light Thrower Free Special Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Kadir Gökmen Öğün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0149par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0148par0030	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0150par0033	They will speak of the Most Mighty, the Most High.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0148par0034	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0151par0036	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to make the sentence (2) of Article 73 of the Law Bill No. 478. Dear lawmakers are trying to squeeze the articles that have been returned from the Constitutional Court to the end of the year of the ruling, the year of legislature, of the laws issued by the government by bypassing parliament. Healthy decisions are expected in these inhumane working conditions. It's tricky to make small changes without changing the meaning. In violation of the spirit of the Constitutional Court's rulings, the Constitutional Court shares the offices of the profession and explains the Constitutional Court's decisions as follows: "These provisions do not come under the law, but by the law. However, it is unnecessary to understand that this situation alone is sufficient. In other words, the regulation of these laws with the law would eliminate the rudeness of the unconstitutional, but in essence, it wouldn't solve the inconsistencies. It is not the Constitution that the provision of protection of personal data in the 20th article of the Constitution should be passed by the law rather than by the decree of the law. It is also a violation of the legal security of the profession members of the Health Occupational Board of Health, in which a measure of such uncertainty, indiscriminate regulation of the commission's composition, as well as the removal of its basic right to work. It is important to protect the quality of health care, rather than define the quality of the tariff as a guide, in this arrangement for the Union of Turkish Dentists to determine the costs for the application of the profession. The tourist guidance fee, architecture fee, law enforcement fees, and veterinary fees are made by professional agencies to determine the minimum cost of service in many areas. However, it is absolutely wrong to be allowed to release the cost of oral and dental care, ignoring the heavy and irreversible consequences of competitiveness over the fee, and to give the vocational organisation the authority only to set a guiding recipe. The 17th and 56th Article of the Constitution, which regulates the right to health and health of the Constitution, is violated by this arrangement. A patient-patient relationship is a difficult relationship. On the one hand, he's scared, he's in pain, he's in distress, he's tired, he's tired, he's tired, he's always on the other side, he's always on the right mission, he's got to give the patient bad news, he's got to offer pain medication, he's got to ban. Despite all these challenges, this relationship often goes very well. You know why? Trust and respect. The biggest danger for the healthcare system is the weakening and decay of these fundamental values between patient-patients. Medical records for patients are collected in the SGK and Health Ministry databases. In this data collection, the specifics of the person and the practice, the patient's approval, are not taken into account, sexual problems, psychiatric conditions and everything that happens in the hospital are required to be reported in detail. In addition, the sale of this data is subject to sharing it with other institutions. Now, the bag is required by law to send detailed and no exception data from the offices, so institutions and physicians are required to pay for it. Without exception, it is unacceptable for the patient to collect any tax without consideration for the consent and the sensitivity of the situation, without any formal or private health care distinctions, with a physician to be appointed as an officer and to be paid a fee on it. It's inevitable that health care will be hit. It will cause patients not to trust the system or the physician, not to apply for health care, but to seek solutions in unofficial ways. The Ministry of Health would like to be given the authority to ban the physician from his profession. Any medical services, prison and heavy fines that the physician offers without a permit are required to be punished. Taking that authority out of the rooms will cause negative injuries. The ministry's bureaucracy is so sure of itself that it has seen itself above the House and has even prepared guide tariffs and guide personnel lists. Unhappy and anxious physicians are of no use to this country. The conditions of the auditor are wanted in this article. There's no need to put these inspector terms in any way. These conditions have already been met when the AKP is headed to the province's presidency. So, I want this item returned, I want your rejections. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0152par0047	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law shall make changes in the Constitution; the Court of Law and the Court of State of Law and the Court of State shall propose that I myself (h) be changed in the following manner (i.e., the Court of Law and Law) shall be changed in the following way, and shall be offered by Bayınıl, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends The second, third and fourth jokes of Article 44 of the Law Rule No. 663 have been changed as follows. In addition to the general conditions listed in Article 48 of State Officers Act 657 to be appointed as assistant supervisor, the following conditions are sought: a) Graduating from institutes of higher education that provide at least four years of licensing in areas related to the ministry and its members' duties, or from higher education institutions in the country or abroad, which are accepted by the Higher Education Council. B) Success in the competition exam. (3) Those assigned to the Vice-Constructor's Office have the right to take the competency exam, provided the thesis jury accepts the thesis, which they will prepare for at least three years of actual work and which will be determined by the unit they are employed for. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis will be given an extension of six months to present their thesis or prepare a new thesis. The ability of those who have succeeded in the qualifying exam to be appointed to the Health Controller's staff depends on having it within two years of an internationally valid certificate, at a minimum (C) level (C) or on the level of language competence. Those who fail the test or fail the test without a valid excuse will be given a second test in one year. Those who do not submit their thesis or submit their thesis for the second time, those who fail or fail the second exam or fail the right to a test, and those who fail to meet the requirement for foreign language competence during their time will lose their title and will be assigned to officers who will fit their position in the Ministry or in their institutions. (4) The regulations organise matters related to the training, upbringing, competition exam, pre-preparation and competency examinations of auditory assistants. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0153par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0152par0061	Government? We don't agree. Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0154par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 73 (h) of Law 478. I salute the High Council. The item placed inside the 478 rows of this law, which had previously changed the central and rural organization structure of the Ministry of Health and Law No. 663, has unfortunately left us face-to-face with some things that we have not calculated correctly. Now, here's the thing to focus on: the chairman of the Board of Investigation, which used to be the Ministry of Health, while the Ministry of Health inspectors are directly attached to the minister in some way, we take these inspectors, the health department's health care services, and the audit boards that run administrative operations in health care, from the ministry. I mean, what's the point of that? What are we trying to figure out with this? As inspectors, we define their titles again, and we give a separate title to the auditors who belong to all other ministries, as health inspectors. By giving this health inspector's title, we're actually revisiting a substance that will prevent them from taking advantage of both status and self-responsibility rights from other review boards, as well as the health inspector's title at their head. We have stated on commission and on every platform that Code 663 is actually a cause of health damage, a means of great, difficult repair. Our objections were never accepted, but now that we're back from the Supreme Court, we're busy with this precious time of Parliament in order to rebuild these rips. In addition to changing the name of the review board, Health Ministry has not attached other testers to the presidents of other institutions, as well as to the central structure of the Ministry of Health. Let me put it this way: a Health Ministry tester, a supervisor's assistant, has 3,600 additional indicators, while some of these auditors are connected to apartment heads, such as the Public Hospital Association, Public Health Unit, Medical Medicine Foundation, which the Ministry of Health has recently created. The apartment heads' addendum is 3000. So by disrupting this hierarchy, we will, in fact, have approved the loss of status by our own hands here at the point of health care and complaints, with your votes, hopefully. One of the serious problems in the Ministry of Health is that we have changed the status of hospital assistants, health managers, hospital managers, branch managers, who have worked seriously for the transformation program in the Ministry of Health for ten years, but whose titles have been deleted by a decree. Look, these people are screaming. They wear out the doors of both lawmakers of both power and opposition, commissioners, all the time. In a case they're right, these people formed an association to return their loss of status to them, to ensure that the rights of their loss were restored to them. I know most of you have visits to my fellow lawmakers. Even though we've always expressed the need to listen to the voices of these friends, even though we've made a serious effort to benefit from the abundance, prosperity, and forgiveness of this Ramadan, both in the bill that we've prepared, and in this bag, we haven't been able to get it into the bag in any way. While these people were living their normal lives, they cost 50% of their income. In the history of the Republic, we've seen people who've never been assigned to their places, who aren't from the same group, who may not even have the right to a profession, who are under contract. These friends run a rights struggle on every platform. I believe they should be supported. He believes Parliament will listen to the voice of our friends, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0155par0076	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 73 (h) was me, (3) no. There are three motions on the bottom, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal of 478 rows is 73. We would like to request and offer the addition of the declaration of the declaration of the Article 663 of Health and Connected Institutions after the decision of the Court has been issued in the second amendment of Article 47. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sakık Hasip Kaplan Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Congressmans, I'm going to read the motions I'm going to file with you on two proposals of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose amendments to the provisions of some Laws and Laws and State Officials Act, and to amendments to Article 73 of the Bill of Laws and Laws, and to be removed from the Charter of the Third Amendment. Lightshooter Free Special Kadir Gökmen Reminder The signatures of the other motion are: Alim Işım Mehmet Şandir Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Cemadın Simsek Enver Erdem Mehmet Günal Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0156par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0155par0104	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motions.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0157par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in the third draft of Article 73 (h) of Bill 478, which we are discussing. With our recommendation, we would like this matter removed from the text of matter. Why do we make such a request? For two reasons: One, to protect the honor of Parliament, I am very clear -- this clause must be removed from this text immediately to protect the honor of this Parliament and the President. This should be a decision that Parliament must make as an over-party approach. Because if you remember, just a day or two ago, in my speech from this bench, I told you that in a guide from the Ministry of Health, the article he based on was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, but based on the matter that had been cancelled, the Ministry of Health will remove it in parentheses, and we will remove it in a bag of law. Now, that's what I'm talking about, guys. The subsidiaries of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, reported in that article -- in Article 47, and we, despite the Constitution, will remove these things in a bag of laws. So, we all have to cancel these clauses in order to protect our own honor. Look, if, as a government, you insist on these items, you can bring them in another bag. Then we'll go out, and we'll look at the substance inside the bag, and we'll argue. But what we're doing today is not just opposition to this substance, and it's not just opposition. It is the duty of everyone of the AKP, CHP, MP, and BDP to protect the honor of Parliament. I remind you of that. So let's get this out of here. Later, if you think it's appropriate, we'll bring it back as soon as we can. Look, one health-related law has been drafted, 40-pointer, we put this inside of it, if you want it again, you take it out, we take it out, we take it out. It's the honor of the job. Now, look, what these articles say when it comes to the content of the work, it says with this clause, the Ministry of Health says that even though the Constitutional Court cancels it, I get all sorts of personal information. I collect all our people's personal data. I'll sell them to anyone I see fit. Look, I can't do this when I'm talking about this. My AKP MP friends, no one's heard from me now. You know why? Because the Minister of Labor came out to a big national television, and he said: "Yes, I sold this information for 72 million liras." He even said: "This information is so valuable that I can sell it for 500 million liras." Look, it's all the talk on TV. I speak to our people here: The Ministry of Parliament and Health does not claim your confidential information, so please take care of it. Look, Parliament has taken a small maneuver and prevented MPs and ministers from selling their confidential information. They can't sell your private information as MPs and ministers, but they're selling all the private information of the poor citizen. These intimate information can be counted from sexual life to alcohol abuse, from how many children she has given birth to what birth control method she uses. The Department of Health has counted them one by one. He says: I question the religion of the newborn child. I question whether the newborn child is in or out of marriage. I question what kind of alcohol people use. Look, I question alcohol. It doesn't say that. Ethyl alcohol is bad for whatever you put in it, but what kind of alcohol you use is not bad for the Ministry of Health, brother. That's why he says you have to reject this clause for these two reasons, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0158par0114	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0159par0115	Mr. President, if a clause that the Constitutional Court has cancelled is actually being placed here, how can the commissions accept it? You know, he means he should refuse if he's seen a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0160par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0159par0117	Now, if the Constitutional Court considers it contrary, there is no such claim...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0160par0118	No, you can't make a decree on the rule of law, it's the things that must be arranged by law. That's why it's...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0159par0119	I mean, it's not about the original, then.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0160par0120	No, it's not about the original.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0159par0121	It's about authority.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0160par0122	You can't edit it with the KHK. It says, so it's made a law.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0161par0123	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0162par0124	Mr. President, but the content of the clause is contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0160par0125	No, the Supreme Court doesn't decide that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0162par0126	So the Constitutional Court is rescinding its regulation by violating the law of authority, but the clause, in this way, contains a component that interferes with the privacy of a person. Mr. Aytug Horseman expressed him from the stand, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0163par0127	Yes, we've heard Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0160par0128	Mr. President, the Constitutional Court has no ruling on this, so it has nothing to do with the basis. However, if he is taken to the Constitutional Court after this, then the essentials will be discussed.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0163par0129	Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0164par0130	Mr. President, this is about the second part of what I'm saying, and the first part is the protection of Parliament's honor. It is your first degree's duty to ensure that. I just forgot to count you, sir, and that's the way it goes in the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0165par0131	In this parliament, the president was insulted. There's a law against that.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0163par0132	Sir, with the Supreme Court calling it off, don't mind if we don't bring the matter of honor together. It's an act of law, so it has nothing to do with honor. Law enforcement, Parliament shall decide, the General Assembly shall decide, if there is a claim against the Constitutional Court, but it is not right to identify it with honor, Mr. Horseman, to personalize it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0164par0133	Mr. President, look, I've just been very clear, and I said, "If they want to bring another bag, they'll bring another bag, they'll come out here because the Department of Health bureaucrats have stated that this law will come and it will pass, and I've proved it in my last speech.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0163par0134	Sir, thank you. We've heard your speeches. It's already on the record.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0164par0135	And for that, please do what you have to do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0166par0136	Mr. President, take five, round up the members of the group, talk to them.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0167par0137	How can a bureaucrat impose this on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0168par0138	It's not a procedure like this, you know, from all over... I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0169par0140	Sir, you are obliged to defend the honor of the House and the President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0170par0141	That's not gonna happen! Warn me, sir, at least. Warning, sir, warning.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0171par0142	Mr. President, because you don't understand the subject, or you'll react.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0169par0143	Look, in this House, the president was insulted. You asked for punishment.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0172par0144	I've made the statement, Mr. Korkmaz, it's not about honor, sir. I don't see it that way.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0169par0145	Look, as chairman of this House, as long as this guide is present, you shouldn't accept it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0173par0146	Give them a five-minute break, and they'll look into it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0174par0147	Is that a procedure, Mr. President? It's clear how the decisions were made in this House.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0175par0148	The General Assembly decides. No, sir, it's not on the commission, no, dear. The other speaker on the motion is Samsun MP Jamalettin Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0176par0152	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, indeed many of our friends regarding the law that has been put in this bag have been forced to talk about what clause the number of articles are under; and I will not say what clause I have made a commitment to because I am forced to do so. What we've given you on the matter...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0177par0153	The matter you know or the substance you don't know.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0176par0154	I have received a promise of a substance we do not know, and I hereby salute the High Council with respect. Dear lawmakers, as a politician once said: it is not possible to open the right well with a crooked needle. When parliament is about to close, we will bring the law proposals for political and upcoming local elections to parliament with an understanding of laws that have nothing to do with each other, which are very complicated and very complicated, but can only be understood by working very hard on them. That is, to say the least, contempt for the House. In such a way, it is against the rules and principles of the House that it should be presented to the Parliament and to be sought to make a hasty decision. It can't be over. The fact that this proposal was adopted by the AKP and brought down to parliament again by the AKP Group and some of its clauses have been altered is also an indication of how quickly the proposal has been prepared and presented to Parliament. First the rights given to MPs imams and muezzins have been lifted by AKP motion in parliament, and now a number of law proposals in the National Movement Party's election declaration have been added to improve the status of our muhtars who are still waiting in Parliament. This is not an arrangement to uphold rights, but it is no good to the country or to the nations or to the parties that are meant to be passed in the upcoming elections, with the idea of which will give more credit to the Justice and Development Party. Maybe you can change these tomorrow. See, I'd like to give you another example: First you'd get 101 TL of driver's license fees, then you'd cut it down to 15 TL. Why 101 TL? Why $15? For God's sake, who makes these calculations and puts them in front of you? You have a calculator, you calculate how many runs you're going to get here, and then you pull back on reactions. Look, you're fine, one hand on the oil, one hand on the honey. But the citizens' situation is not like your situation, the citizens are miserable. If that was enough for $15, why are you trying to get $101 on the first offer? You think you're a goose to rip off a citizen? Dear lawmakers, when we look at Article 47 of the Law Order 663, which has been offered to replace it, all public and private health care providers organise the issues that are authorized to ask for health care from all public and private health care providers, personal information that they have to give to concerned health institutions and institutions, and information on the service given to these individuals, to collect, to operate, and to perform all kinds of tasks given to them, and to ask for information from all concerned individuals and organisations. The Ministry of Health has announced that the individual's personal data will be collected on the basis of Health Services Code 3359 on the cancellation of the Constitutional Court of Law No. 663 on the collection and sharing of personal health data. These developments have been followed by the State Officers' Law and the decree that the amendments to certain Laws and Laws should be made and that personal health data can be collected and shared. In the first place, it would be against the law to collect, process, and share personal data without legal regulation of the details and assurances of the Turkish Penal Code, including the 20th Article of the Constitution, the Biological Convention and the Protection of Personal Data. It's been set up in parallel with world applications and has been waiting for five years in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as opposed to the Protection of Personal Data Law Bill, its legal ground is not defined, its framework is not detailed, its efforts are not understood to be implemented by this material, which contains changes in the laws and regulations. For this reason, the Constitution must be excluded from the Law of the State Officers Act, which violates the rights and freedom of persons and the laws of law, and from the draft of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0178par0165	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0179par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a statement regarding the driver's license fees mentioned earlier in the speech and some previous talks. Right now, if a citizen wants to get a driver's license or renew it, he has to pay $89 in valuable paper fees, and 12 lira has to pay a price for the Traffic Foundation. 101 lira, standard, is the cost of any current driver's license to our citizens. You know, under international agreements, licenses are being renewed. All licenses in Turkey will be renewed and reprinted. In this framework, all of our citizens' licenses will be revised, reviewed, changed, and given licenses to our citizens. Now, this argument came from here: this is a state-run decision, and it comes as an added burden to our citizens, so it's not the price of getting a driver's license or changing it at the time. So, for once, this is being changed under the agreement that I just said. Thus, normal procedure for this procedure was caused only by the thought of taking the cost because it was an additional inconvenience and a burden that arose against the will of a citizen. Otherwise, there is no mistake in the account, the account is true, the 101 is true, and the 15 is true in the account. Therefore, let there be no additional burden on our citizens, and let only the cost be taken from our citizens, as such an obligation has arisen because of a decision against their will. 13 lira is the cost of a driver's license, and 2 lira is the amount that will be paid to the Traffic Foundation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0180par0172	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0181par0173	Why didn't you think of this before? You should've thought of all that before. So he's back from Twitter.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0182par0174	How is both true? One of them is true. That's not gonna happen, Mr. President. What do you mean, it's true and it's true?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0180par0175	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal of 478 rows is 73. We would like to request and offer the addition of the declaration of the declaration of the Article 663 of Health and Connected Institutions after the decision of the Court has been issued in the second amendment of Article 47. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0183par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0180par0182	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0184par0185	Dear lawmakers, remember this motion well, and you will say: "One day, Hasip Kaplan made such a motion. In fact, the ruling party would have been most useful to the MPs, but we refused. This happened to us because one day I told a judge, the prosecutor, in the courtroom, about the European Convention on Human Rights, about the rights of the European Convention on Personal Rights, about the protection of private life, and I said: "Mr. Court, will you take note of this, this connects you?" The judge and the prosecutor didn't consider it, and then when they were in court, they came to me, Mr. Hasip, did they? Now, you seem to need one of those. Guys, look, our motion is real, it's a matter of possibility, we say: if a person doesn't have consent, a court order is made. Don't let it spread personal data to everyone. Look, are you aware that all the Internet records in Turkish TELEKOM have already been distributed to companies? We've seen it on the wiretap committee, all of the information you gave us on cell phones has been distributed. Do you realize that all of your residence information in your records has been sold for three packs of cigarettes? I'm telling you, it's all been distributed until your phone call, until your residence. It's not just them, look, your bank credentials have been distributed. You may not be aware of it, but you can tell from the bank's credentials from the messages of the other banks that came to you. Potential clients are usually ruling party MPs. That's why banks are interested, guys, believe me, believe me.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0185par0188	Mr. Hasip, I think it's too much for you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0186par0189	It never comes to me.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0184par0190	As a financier, believe me, Mr. Canikli, he's coming to you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0185par0191	He didn't come, he didn't come to me.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0184par0192	Watch out for GSM cell phones, GSM cell phone information is shared, and you get commercials and messages when you don't want to. If you're saying no, he's not coming. If you're saying somebody's going to come out here and swear on the book, I'm going to say.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0185par0193	These are coming, they're not coming from the bank.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0184par0194	Now, in all the electronic licenses, from natural gas licenses to water licenses, and, of course, all of this data is digitally available up to driver's licenses, IDs. But is it effective in the state IT law, protection, against cyber-attacking digitally? Well, it's not, 'cause we looked into it. Erdal, a member of the main opposition party, warned our friend, "Look, friends, seriously this is being done, I don't know how many countries are being bugged, watched, information, data are being shared, taken," he said. So, while our friends were having these discussions at the wiretap research commission -- our Mr. Vice President himself was there, they were witnesses to that argument -- it turns out that America listens to how many countries, I don't know, listens to the data. There's Turkey, there's England, there's France, there's Germany. They weren't good with each other after that, you know, when they got into private life or something. Now, about the Ministry of Health. If health is a right, it's the government's duty to fulfill it. Now, the Ministry of Health collected the data, personal data. He took this data. After receiving this data, he transfers it to the SGK because there is inter-separation, but when he transfers it to third parties, he violates the 90th article of the Constitution. Look, it's very dangerous. One day, health information on your friends, during the election season, you'll see how their rights have been violated if they start being used as an election propaganda tool because they ate this pork, and this one ate this. Come, let's place this in a court of law, guaranteed by the judges you've appointed, and make sure you're safe. I'm saying it's for the best, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I claim that this motion is beneficial to all of us, especially to power. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit06spe0187par0200	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0187par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Article 73 of the proposal has three motions on it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. The article shall be replaced by the 664 Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Foundation, which is intended to be replaced by the Article 2 of Article 21 of the Article 2 of the Law on its duties and on national security. Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Abdullah Levent Tüzel Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Law on Amendments in Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act No. 478; and I shall propose the amendment of Article 73 of Plans (2/1613, 1/778) of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) and the amendment of the Constitutional Charter on the amendments of certain Laws and Laws. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal The second joke of Article 21 of Article 21 of the Constitution on Article 11/10/2011 and Article 664 of Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Institution Agency and its duties has been changed as follows. The High Institutions and Institutions are authorized to seek information that they consider necessary regarding the field of national defence and national security through all public institutions and institutions and other real and relevant people through the Prime Minister or the Minister. The relevant public institutions and other real and legal persons are obliged to provide this information on time and complete. The information obtained in this way protects the privacy of those who are commercially secretive. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws in accordance with the laws and laws of law, and 73// of the Plans and Budget Commission Reports under the Law and Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Kazim Kurt Aytuğ Thrower Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Trust Free Kadir Gökmen Reminder Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0188par0032	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0187par0033	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0189par0037	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. There's hot news again. I'm afraid there's not a lot of good news coming in during the House hearings these days. A group of 34 persons, including occupational organisations, NGOs, trade unions, presidents and executives in Istanbul, have just left to make a press statement. Today, though, when the governor opened Happy Travel Park, I told them 40 times. He threatened them 40 times in a 20-minute speech. The Governor has fulfilled his threat. We have a new crisis on a matter that does not need to be allowed in advance, such as making a press statement, which is a very democratic right, and is no longer the work of this age. We hope that the detentions will be terminated immediately, the heads of the trade organization, the union presidents will be released immediately. Otherwise, Turkey is the democracy of the loser here. I'd like to talk to you about the president of Ataturk Culture, Language and History. The institution consists of four parts; one is the Turkish Language Foundation, the other is the Turkish Historical Institution, the Ataturk Cultural Centre and Ataturk Research Centre. The Turkish Language Foundation is part of the Enlightenment Project, the Enlightenment Project, which was founded in 1931 by Ataturk himself in 1932. Its purpose is: A bee has many goals, such as providing language unity in Turkish and Turkey, improving rules, gaining scientific qualifications, but also protecting Turkish language from the direct and damaging effects of Persian, Arabic, French language. Because in that era, you know a lot of French and Arabic words, not being brought up with that kind of phonetic adaptation, but with its meaning in that language, and Ataturk says that the young Republic of Turkey, who knows how to protect its country and its high will, will also free its language from the yoke of foreign languages. Ataturk not only built it, but called Ismail Kunter (Ismail Kunter) - İstanbul 6. Noteri- and he handed him a will just two months before his death on September 5, 1938, and he left a portion of his inheritance to these two institutions so that they could operate independently, independently, without the influence of the government. This continued until Law 2876 in 1983. Until then, these were private legal legal personalities, but with the change made at that time, public law was transformed into its legal personality. This meant that the administration, the government, would be able to use the authority to appoint the administration over this institution, to become directly dependent on them. With this attitude, the institution's right of name, property, property, and not just the spirit of the institution have been seized by the coupgers. We inherited the previous Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society from Ataturk, but today's Turkish Language Foundation and Turkish Historical Institution are inherited from Canaan Pasha. There are things that need to be done because Law 2876 has been passed by the Council of the National Security Council. Today, we face a reckoning with the 1980 coup, a reckoning with sincerity. We're talking about a general who's been tried by lying in the Gata Palace, and it's going on over him. But unfortunately, the AKP didn't change what it had seized when it had the chance to change power, and it took it entirely under its sovereignty with the Law of 664. Here, if you really want to deal with the coup, the real Turkish Language and History Foundation should be returned to this institution, which bears only the resemblance of name and property, both its autonomy and its reputation, but if we don't do this... a second heavy blow to this institution after 1983, the appointment of Mr. Turkone to the administration of the institution. It was later returned from the mistake, but it's as heavy as that. Indeed, a person who considers Ataturkism an insult to himself has been appointed to the board of the institution, and the ruling report card is very weak in this regard. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0190par0044	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0191par0045	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit07spe0190par0046	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0190par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Manisa MP Free Special and his friends' motion was not enough on Article 73 of Law Proposal 478. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between the clerks, I'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of the Law and Government Officials Act and of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and of the Commission of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) to change the amendments to the Constitutional Code of Some Laws and Laws, and we propose that the following Articles be changed by the Bayary, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission, and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) be changed. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends The second joke of Article 21 of Article 21 of the Constitution on Article 11/10/2011 and Article 664 of Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Institution Agency and its duties has been changed as follows. The High Institutions and Institutions are authorized to seek information that they consider necessary regarding the field of national defence and national security through all public institutions and institutions and other real and relevant people through the Prime Minister or the Minister. The relevant public institutions and other real and legal persons are obliged to provide this information on time and complete. The information obtained in this way protects the privacy of those who are commercially secretive. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0192par0016	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0190par0017	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0193par0021	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When I read this article... I don't know if you ever compared it to the previous clause, the Commission said no, and the Minister said no, but I don't think either of them knew why they said no. Because there's only one word here... it has to be given without fail. It has to be given in full instead. Now, these are actually when you look at the functions of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute; 1) He does research on history. 2) He does language research. 3) He does research on culture and Ataturk. Can you tell me, for what reason does he want all the confidential, corporate information that's been seen here? I mean, how does he need that? The archive and the library are open, any information is open, and you do your research in that frame. Why would you need something like that? So, you're going to run these institutions as a side branch of the MIT? I mean, what does the science board have to do with this? Seriously, honestly, for what reason and how are you going to use the Historical Society, the Language Foundation, the cultural research center, the Ataturk Research Center? If it's a scientific organization, they do their research in the archives, in the library, they do their public research, they do their field research, it's over. So, what institutions are you asking for classified information from, and what matters will they be? Will the requested classified information then be publicly announced or not? If it's to be announced, there's no cover, just the commercial secret quality... which of the institutions I'm talking about will do a business investigation? They don't even function like that. See, your own laws, the Executive Board decisions, are published in the Official Gazette. In what country of the world have you seen the decisions of the boards published in the official paper? You didn't see it. I mean, you call it a yes, you call it a no, but you don't know why. But I understand that since the Constitutional Court doesn't accept this, you're going to change a word to make it valid in the Constitutional Court again. But I repeat: will these institutions then work as the side branch of the MIT? If that's how it's going to work, none of his research is going to be worth anything, so it's not going to be scientific. So, this kind of research, the fact that a law like this is brought here and that one word can be changed, I think it should be in different thoughts. Otherwise, its higher institutions and institutions are the Historical Institution, the Language Foundation, the Ataturk Cultural Centre and the Ataturk Research Centre. I've been at the Historical Society for 15 years. I didn't need any classified or confidential information from any government agency. Because all my research is either archaeological dig or research on libraries. Let's say if you do regional research, even if you do strategic research, you don't feel the need to get any classified information from the government. As for the Language Foundation: Can you tell me, which state, which institution of the Language Foundation will request or not give information about language? If you call it the Cultural Center, so is the research done by the Cultural Center. Well, the Ataturk Research Center... it's said that Ataturk has a secret will, is it for him? If there is such a thing, it's still in the libraries or in the archives, you can get it out of there. Besides, I'm assuming that such a substance is actually here as a provision of a law that does not suit a scientific board. In fact, let's do the right thing, let's make the Language Foundation and the Historical Society an academy, just as Ataturk was speaking in Parliament in 1936, because they have an independent scientific institution, because they have significant income from the Business Bank, so that they can do serious research with these revenues, and that the research they're doing for the government's benefit, is used in a set of plans and projects for the future, but also to bring up our history and issues related to culture in the right language. But what you're saying is: let's not uphold the laws of the occupation. It's actually the law of the revolution, and the Institute of Ataturk Culture, Language and History is an institution of revolution. So you say, "I'm going to remove the others." You say, "You're going to redefine it with a decree of law." I repeat, as a person who's worked here with experience, if you really want to reach a genuine conclusion, remove the higher institution from the Language and History institutions, and turn the Language and History institutions into an academy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0194par0034	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. The article shall be replaced by the 664 Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Foundation, which is intended to be replaced by the Article 2 of Article 21 of the Article 2 of the Law on its duties and on national security. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0195par0041	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0194par0042	Does the government agree? We don't agree. I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to define the scope of the joke in more advanced and modern terms. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 73 (i) there are three motions, I make them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose that the 1st joke of the 1st article of the 1,700 Internal Affairs Officers Law (c) which is intended to be replaced by the iFK of the article shall be replaced by the non-five-year-old. Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Fair Zozani Ibrahim Rider Secret Sakık The proposal for law number 478 is 73. We propose that the clause (i) be changed in the following way. Celal Dinçer Ali Serindağ Bulent Kuşoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aytun Çıray i) 9.6.1930 and 2nd of Internal Affairs Officers Act 1,700. The second sentence of the first joke (B) is redesigned in the following way, (C) which has not reached the age of 35 and is added to the following article. Those who have failed three times before can not participate in the written exam. 1.7,2006, and since the time of the Act 5540, the retired property managers were 1. He's practically in class. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Law on Amendments in Articles of Law and Law and Laws Act No. 478; Offering and Offering to Substitution, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) Enver Erdem Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Şandir Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Günal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0196par0078	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0194par0079	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0197par0083	Mr. President, I have been promised the amendment to Article 73 (i) of Law Proposal 478. I hereby salute the High Council. Our motion is that this bender be removed from the bidding text. The reason is that Section 1,700, which is still in effect, is that Article 2 of the Law on Deputies, and the terms of the driver's license. A sentence was added to this article by Article 661/13/13 of the Constitution of 24/10/2011, and (b) the final sentence of the term "submission nomination" was added to the written exam three times earlier. Those who failed the interview cannot participate in the interview. You've now re-inscribed this to the Constitutional Court's law enforcement order after it's been rejected. Do you know what the change is, Congressman? It only says here three times, and the law says three times, so we've done it three times. Let's not fool the MPs and the people. The second amendment was the (c) me of this clause: from those mentioned (B), who did not finish 35 years of the year's entrance exam, on January 1st of the year, we changed the word unfinished, after the Constitutional referendum, against the Constitutional Court, which AKP had altered and made up for itself, and you said: "Man, you can't change what we said, you can't change the word, I'm putting it in front of you, I've changed the word, I've changed the word. If you say, "Bring it, if you want to clear the way for the children you've eliminated in the written examinations where the children of Anatolia received 98, 99, 100 points, three times because they didn't receive references from AKP-led administrations alone, take this joke away, amenna. But now, with this change, you've already said that the Constitutional Court has rejected the rule of law, that if they take 100 children under the yoke of the AKP, even if they take 100, I'll have them nailed three times in the written exam, you won't be able to do it again in the interview. These are unbecoming changes to this country. Each of the 76 million living in this country has the same rights. You, as many times as you have, have blocked the people who have taken the sabbatical exam, who have passed 100 points, and you have changed the law to continue, and the Constitutional Court has decided to do so by unanimous decision by many members on the grounds that they did not comply with their conscience. Now, you're going around again, I'm not bringing it back, I'm changing a word, and this is what I'm doing, members of the Constitutional Court, if you eat it! And that's not really fair. Dear lawmakers, I wish you had been able to bring additional indicator demands of the trustees into this law; if only you had brought a provision in the districts where the trustees serve, where the Justice and Development Party has been released from the position of a government representative under the command of the district administrations; if only you had removed it from the position ordered by the ruling party lawmakers when they called. If these changes were to happen, I believe this great House would have seen fit. If you had made arrangements to free them of their corrupt state-manship identities and raise them to the position of officers who truly represent the state's counties, this change would be nothing more than a fraud against the decision of a court such as the Constitutional Court and the will of lawmakers. Therefore, he says it would be right to remove it from the proposal text, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0198par0088	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The proposal for law number 478 is 73. We propose that the clause (i) be changed in the following way. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends i) 9.6.1930 and 2nd of Internal Affairs Officers Act 1,700. The second sentence of the first joke (B) is redesigned in the following way, (C) which has not reached the age of 35 and is added to the following article. Those who have failed three times before can not participate in the written exam. 1.7,2006, and since the time of the Act 5540, the retired property managers were 1. He's practically in class. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0199par0098	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0198par0099	Government? We don't agree. Celal Dinçer has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0200par0103	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the joke of Article 73 (i) of Law Proposal No. 478. I salute your high council. With this clause, the conditions for the entrance to the examination of the trustees, the most basic unit in the property management system, are organised. What's my sub's job? Kaymakam is the largest administrative head of the district and the most competent state official in the province, representing the administration without means in the district, responsible for the general administration of the Republic of Turkey. The ministry's district agencies operate as subsidiaries, which means he is the number one minister of each ministry in the district. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the general name of the governor and the members of the government's office. The management of property is an important profession in the country where state and government are represented in accordance with the principle of the extent of power, the law, the security of the law, the trust of everyone, which should be fair and impartial -- I underline that sentence, which should be fair and impartial. Today, the managers of the property, which should be put into office with a good choice, are chosen according to different criteria, such as to be close to the economy. If the ruling candidates who have succeeded in the KPSS exams are not close to power, the oral exams are constantly failing for water reasons. This bag is going to be 35 years old with the change brought in by the law. This age, given the three-year internship period, is too late, and a 38-year-old governor will have started a business. It will also reduce employment opportunities for young people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, this law -- the same articles were laid out in the 10th month of 2011 -- is now in front of us because the Constitutional Court is canceling them. We've told you not to make these arrangements at every meeting under the law, but we can't listen, so the judgment gives you the answer you need. Dear lawmakers, under Article 557 of Law 59, there have been no exceptions in the appointment of governors within these offices, no constraints, but the general and special conditions of being a civil servant. The City Administration Act has given governments a broad mandate to appoint governors. Every co-mayor who steps into the profession is constantly working to achieve this status because he sees the governorship as the peak of the profession. However, no matter how hard he works, not all of the trustees are allowed to become governors. This is just a matter of breaking the work spirit of colleagues who realize that they can't achieve the job of governor just by working and managing a successful property. These orientations produce the result of the politicalisation of the members of the profession. On the other hand, a significant and negative result, such as the lack of trust in the state and the administration, which has been marred by the inefficiency of citizens, represents the state. This trend reveals governors competing with the mayor of power, the governors competing with the mayor of the district. In his profession, property managers who have successfully become governors have suffered financial and spiritual loss, and their desire to work is broken because they cannot be governors. Today, pension and additional indicator problems are the main problem of property management supervisors. Ownership managers receive a very low salary in retirement. During the AKP's rule, all interior ministers promised that they would solve this problem when they began their work, but none of them could keep that promise. I'm speaking to the Home Secretary here: you're one of the best aware of the problems of the property managers, because you're from the property manager's office. When you were the head of the Internal Affairs Commission, you said you'd solve this problem and make an effort, so here's your opportunity, do what you have to do. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, our proposals for compensation and retirement of property managers are now in your presence. With this arrangement, it will result in a better service to our people, to increase the efficiency and efficiency of public services in the country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First-rate executive executives wish to have the same pension as the prosecutors they serve under the same conditions, demanding the same right as the judges. That's their natural right. I hope you won't deny them that right. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0201par0118	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion was not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose that the 1st joke of Article 2 of the 1,700 Internal Affairs Officers Act (c) which is intended to be replaced by the iFK of the article shall be replaced by the non-five-year-old. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0202par0125	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0201par0126	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0203par0129	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0201par0130	I'm having it read. The change was intended to overcome the age limit predicted for civil service according to what method and the confusion of meaning that would occur in individuals. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 73 (J) there are three motions, which I make to read.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0204par0136	Mr. President, may I have a word on the 60th Amendment, sir?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0201par0137	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0204par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the events of the Travel Park continue to be on Turkey's agenda with all its weight. A total of 34 of our friends representing NGOs from the Division Solidarity Group, who are on their way there today to study the declaration at Gezi Park, have been taken into custody. It is contrary to the freedom of speech, freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of speech, freedom of speech, freedom of speech, and freedom of mind, that our citizens, representatives of the NGO, should be taken away from the right to read the declaration, preventing them from going to division. Security forces, those who gave him instructions, violated the freedoms of the individual, those 34 of our citizens, and violated the Constitution. I'm calling Mr. Secretary of State, who's in the government's ranks, who is not in his field, but please call Mr. Home Secretary, and have these citizens cease to be detained for no reason or reason. There's no reason for them to be taken into custody. It's very wrong to make this a permanent hunt, to look at all those who want to go to division, to look at all those who want to go to travel as potential criminals, and to try to punish them, to take our democracy in a worse direction. I advise the government to avoid it. My call to the Minister, my request: please call the Home Secretary, and let them stop this unlawful procedure. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0205par0144	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0206par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. When we look at social media and internet reports, indeed, we see that the Istanbul Medical Chamber General Secretary, member of the People's Democratic Congress Board, TMMOB Secretary, Chamber of Electrical Engineers İstanbul Branch head, City Planners Chamber İstanbul Branch head and many others have been taken into custody at this level. In this regard, indeed, we believe that the government should now remove this from the ongoing hunt and bring a solution to this, and have a more tolerant approach to the Law on Meetings and Demonstration Walks, as well as to the requirements of the Constitution. These detentions are really causing more tensions. Especially at this level, we don't find it right to have executives taken into custody by the police. We believe the ministers should make an effort to be released. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0207par0150	Thank you. [[Continue]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law and Laws Act 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 73 (j) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Şandir Alim Iş In the first article of Article 29 of Security Service Law, dated 4/6/1937 and included in Article 29 of Article 3201, the statement of the staff or contracted personnel outside of the service has been changed in the form of the staff or contract staff outside. Congressmans, I'm going to take the two motions I'm going to now read in the same context, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We offer and propose the release of the article from the text of the law. Pervin Buldan Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzel Hasip Kaplan Nazmi Gür İbrahim Binici Kadir Gökmen Öğülya Trust Free Special Mustafa Moroglu Sakine Öz Kazim Kurt Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0208par0180	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0207par0181	Does the government agree? We don't agree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0209par0183	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0207par0184	I'm reading the reason: The change is intended to be replaced by the current non-alignment (e.g. the expression "outside") and is intended to preserve the former version of the change, since it does not contribute to the form and content of the substance. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who asked for the same motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0210par0189	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear friends, this is a matter of law enforcement. Once, for 40 days... the Turkish police have been the police of all of us, we all have to ensure the safety of lives and property, no citizens will be separated. We still believe that. Once, for 40 days without rest, these people are in a very difficult position. And I want you all to know that. Dear friends, it's a hundred and seventy years old. I'm now reading to you the payroll of a police officer, a 6-degree cop, and to your consciences, friends, total of 3,600, net paid 2,900. Do you know what his salary is? 987 liras. My dear friends, $987 is a salary, about minimum wage. How much pension does this person get when he retires on this salary? I appeal to your consciences. No one has the right to ruin people in law enforcement's retirement. I'm speaking to the Chief Constable, the Home Secretary, if they have a conscience... people who haven't taken care of these people for years, who have retired, have always been devastated. Is there an institution in Turkey that doesn't own so many organizations? Police Department of Police, the Ministry of the Interior, do you have the right to make these people miserable? It's called unconscionable. Dear friends, these people will retire after a while. No one has the right to pay 800 liras, 900 lira pensions. Is there another institution in Turkey? Is there another agency in the public that has a pension this low? Eight nights and eight hours in the morning, and they're back on watch at eight in the morning. Dear friends, we have no right. As a citizen, we have to think about it. We all feel guilty, it's a wound on all our consciences. We have about 200,000 policemen in Turkey. How are they gonna take care of their kids when they retire? How will they provide for the children of their children? We're always forcing these people to retire tomorrow. No one has the right to play with the honor and honor of these people. (Applause) I'm showing the payroll, folks, at the 6th degree, 987 liras. I appeal to your consciences. Is that gonna happen? Oh, my God, guys. We have to fix this. In the last period, in the previous period, we've always said, that day's interior ministers, the police chiefs of that day, we've prepared, we've prepared, we've found a solution. It's been 11 years, friends, there's no solution. Now, no one has the right to distract these people, to deceive these people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0211par0196	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0212par0199	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0211par0200	I will submit the same motions to your votes. There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Önçebi, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Ekçin, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Special, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Öz, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Attür, Mr. Gorkulu. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to Amendment in Articles of the Law and Law and Laws Act 2/1613, 1/778) and I propose that Article 73 (j) be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends In the first article of Article 29 of Security Service Law, dated 4/6/1937 and included in Article 29 of Article 3201, the statement of the staff or contracted personnel outside of the service has been changed in the form of the staff or contract staff outside. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0213par0218	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0211par0219	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0214par0223	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to your high council for the motion we're negotiating on the 73-/j) clause. Dear lawmakers, Article 73-οj of the proposal is being brought to order in accordance with Article 29 of the Law on the Security Service Act on the grounds that the amendment to the rule of law has been annulled due to the cancellation of the ordinance of the law. On this occasion, I would like to share with you some of the problems the law enforcement has been waiting for, which have been promised by your power for years, that you have never solved. Dear lawmakers, the police force, which has taken on many tasks, such as providing peace and security of society, protecting the basic rights and freedoms of a citizen, upholding law enforcement and the authority of the state, are trying to do its job with the rights and the rights of life-threatening circumstances. As one of the first things to be corrected after the election to get the votes of this organization, which has about 250,000 employees before each election, you haven't solved the current problems of this police force in years. The police no longer honor empty promises. The concrete steps are waiting. However, both the ruling members and you have been unable to take these concrete steps. Dear lawmakers, our police have very clear demands from us: they want the return of their hard work. They want to remove the wage differences between the police commissioners. They want their additives to be 3,600. They want to remove the salary differences between the police department's units. High school graduates want to move up to the 1st degree, and they want their pension fixed. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, in comparison with a question asked the other day about police rights, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ created polemics instead of reporting the news the police had been waiting for in 2002-2013. Now, valued lawmakers, the comparison of 2002-2013 has become a myth that you began to turn your head and say as a power, which is not true. As of 2013, you believe the country is better managed, but frankly, you don't manage the country well. You don't manage the economy very well. You can't handle foreign policy well. You're not good at domestic politics, you're not good at it. In domestic politics, you shared the sovereignty with the Imran villain. You said to fight terror, you negotiated first and then you made an interest. You're making laws out of here with the kandil instructions. You started with zero problems with foreign policy, no telling what kind of relationship we're going to have with our neighbors at the point of zero relations, including war. Where are we in the economy? When we look at the economy, the exchange price is gone; gold, the stock market has fallen, don't ask for fuel prices, the external debt is $350 billion. All we owe is over $600 billion. Cari is more than 10 per cent of the open non-national. Twenty percent of the population live below the hunger limit. The working man is a slave. There are no subcontractors, 4/B (b) people, 4/C), temporary, master, teacher, proxy, the government's employee regime, or government's regime. What in God's name are you showing off? What did you do well? These people believed you, but you didn't rule the country well. You say, "We rule well." But you just look like you're running it. The mufli merchant would go through his books of debt, and you'd say, "2002" and try to be happy with the sense of virtue. So, if we analyze 2002: is it true that we are so ruthlessly critical of a government that has budgeted from a country view that can't budget, prepared a development programme, created a banking law, brought in the Savings Trust Insurance Fund, secured the banking and financial structure today, established the Banking Board, gave high support to the real manufacturer in agriculture, laid the foundation of the system that you own today, taught you the double routes, taught you the U.S. government's Great Middle East Project, which does not say to stay in power like you do? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0215par0232	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. In Article 73 (k) there are two motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to change the amendment of some Laws and Laws Act, and I propose that the Commission of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of Plan and Plans and Budget Commission Reports (k) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The second joke of Article 6 of the Law on Organizations and Missions of State Water Affairs, dated 18/12/1953, has been changed as follows. The procedures and basics of the entrance and competency examinations of the Deputy Inspectors to be employed in the office of the Board of Inspectors, are determined by the procedure and the regulations of the work and the responsibilities of the Inspection Board under special conditions to be looked at. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and We propose the adoption of Article 73/k of the Plan and Budget Commission Reports with the Bill of Public Law, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, and the Commission's Commission on Development and Development and Development and Development. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Kazim Kurt Sakineh Free Special Mighty Gökmen Reminder Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0216par0255	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0215par0256	Does the government agree? We don't agree. İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt asking for a word on the proposal.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0217par0260	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we have another month, a month and a half of travel events ahead of us. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister, who didn't listen to the court's decision, caused the start of the events so far, killing four people, raising 11 eyes, taking advantage of nearly 8,000 people. What finally happened? Twenty days later, he tried to enforce the court order. None of this would have happened if he had carried out his court order 20 days ago. We all know that hundreds of detentions and arrests are also common. But it's not enough, it's still not enough, right now there's a full martial law going on, there's a curfew going on. Our friends of 34 democratic mass groups from the Taxi Solidarity Group are taken into custody in front of the Engineering Room when they go to read the statement. We condemn them once again for their unlawful, non-democracy methods, the governor being taken into custody in broad daylight threats. These antidemocratic activities, the practice of this governor alone, the fact that the prime minister and the governor have these people in constant custody is a disgrace to Turkey; Turkey will bring nothing to Turkey. You will see together that Turkey is not Egypt. This isn't Egypt, there's no Mursi here. Let's all do what we can to make Turkey a more democratic country. Now, that's how many people were killed, injured during this trip, but you didn't understand anyone. What happened during that time? You didn't put the community, the Istanbulians, in any way, into the process of making decisions, you ignored them. On your own, we came out of the trunk, we do what we want. You brought it to size. You tried to completely destroy the green areas. You have opened the house of Haydarpaşa, of Kustili. You've shut down Haydarpaşa Station. You've caused the construction of 1,700,000 square meters of the station's Haydarpaşa district. In middle school, in high school, at KPSS, you caused as much injustice as the world. In Maltepe, in Yenikapi, in Galataport, you caused the sea to be filled recklessly. You have tendered the shipyards, the relics, the Ottoman shipyards, for forty-nine years, to be turned into a hotel without knowing what to do, without adding anyone to the decision-making process. There are still eight MPs in there who are a disgrace to democracy. Anyone who opposes power is a coupger to you. Hundreds of journalists, soldiers, elected people, mayors suffer from long imprisonment. The climate of fear surrounds the whole small and large Turkey. People have trouble talking on the phone. In any case, a tradesman can't even express any objections in case the finance comes tomorrow. You already know the situation of the businessmen. You already know the press. Do you guys realize that the press is starting to come out with the same headlines? Maybe it would be more useful for you to buy one newspaper. You're banning the press conference in front of the Falls Courthouse once and for all. Who? Only the Democrats. Cult members can hold a press conference there as much as they want. The unemployment, the corruption, it's huge. That and a power that doesn't understand, doesn't question, what do these people say? Our mayor is friends in Istanbul who don't exist. Therefore, we want these illegal practices to be terminated immediately. This democracy has nowhere to take Turkey. This witch hunt must end quickly, detentions and detentions must end. The rulers of these democratic mass organizations and their colleagues should also be respected. We want this democracy to end as soon as possible. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0218par0273	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit08spe0219par0274	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... Those who don't agree... There's no decision enough, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0219par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 134th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough decision to vote on İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt and his friends' motion on Article 73 of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal (k). Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will resume the talks of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to change the amendment of some Laws and Laws Act, and I propose that the Commission of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of Plan and Plans and Budget Commission Reports (k) be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The second joke of Article 6 of the Law on Organizations and Missions of State Water Affairs, dated 18/12/1953, has been changed as follows. The procedures and basics of the entrance and competency examinations of the Deputy Inspectors to be employed in the office of the Board of Inspectors, are determined by the procedure and the regulations of the work and the responsibilities of the Inspection Board under special conditions to be looked at. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0220par0013	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0219par0014	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0221par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0219par0018	I'm reading the reason: The motion is to correct the statement. The Commission has not had a healthy and productive discussion of the proposal. During its talks, the Commission has shown an unknown position on the purpose and reason for which arrangements were made. Although 71 amendments have been made in the ordinance of law and law, it is not possible to find issues that will address the problems of our citizens except one or two issues. The Law Proposal brings very limited changes to the legal and financial status of public personnel. Thus, expectations have not been met, but hopes have become disappointing. A healthy and consistent personnel policy is not implemented in the public. The staff regime has been suspended from objectivity, the employment regime has been corrupted. Law number 657 has made it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, exclusionary. During the AKP, these exceptional practices prevented the original form of employment. In addition, those employed as contractors and deputies during the AKP period have been taken into office by the laws issued earlier, but they have been recommitted and reassigned, and some of them are now re-employed as officers. With these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. The biggest victimization is our unemployed young people who can't find work in these exceptional ways. These are the millions of unemployed citizens who have not been able to win the central exam, who have not been able to make the appointment, who have not been in line, and whose positions have been filled in exceptional ways before their turn. The government must stop this mistake, this injustice, immediately. This Law Proposal and the 4/B people who work in public institutions are appointed to the officers who meet the requirements of the 4/B/B/B, under Act 4924, contractors under other special laws and contractors working in local administrations, and those who meet the conditions of the teaching of Deputy Koran courses. However, there are no 4/C people who have been given a staff, who have lived most deeply in the victimology. Guidance and master teachers were not included in this arrangement. There are no family health workers. There are no surrogate nurses. There are no paid teachers. Not only do I count the discrimination and unjust practices carried out by the AKP government. There are no teachers or unassigned teachers in this proposal. We don't have cops in this arrangement. Public workers are not allowed to transfer. There is no arrangement for subcontractors. Temporal and seasonal workers are again ignored. There are no seniors in retirement in this proposal. We don't have Mukhtars. There is no regulation in this Law Proposal concerning families of martyrs and veterans and the disabled and the elderly. So what's in this bill of law? Mera, the plateau and the barracks are now open to construction. The village has the right to be taken away from the peasant and transferred to the treasure, to be stripped of the zoning authority from the municipalities, and to sell it. Supports that are not provided for against the truth, against the law or because of false documents are paid. There is an obstruction of rights-seeking freedom of citizens and an intervention in the judiciary regarding the publicized property. The right to information on the questions and answers of the PSYM exams has been blocked. The public share of his capital is directly or indirectly excluded from the Court's control of companies, which are less than 50%. The implementation of the Health and Safety Act has been delayed, and it has been victimised by those who have received the certificate. There's 15 lira in documents from 24 million of our citizens for driver's licenses. So instead of improving public administration and resolving the problems of employees, how public land can be looted, how staffing can be provided, how corruption and corruption can be forgiven, how it can be avoided, how it can be avoided. The proposal needs a complete review and correction of this clause. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0222par0030	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0219par0031	All in favor... Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0222par0033	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0219par0034	I'll call. All in favor... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0222par0036	It wasn't.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0223par0037	No, sir, the motion is being voted on, Mr. President, the motion is being voted on.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0222par0038	No, in matter. You voted the item, sir, you voted the item.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0224par0039	I didn't say that, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0222par0040	You voted on the item.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0225par0041	Not accepted, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0224par0042	No, I didn't say your thing.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0222par0043	Unaccepted, you voted the item.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0226par0044	Article voted, denied.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0227par0045	The decision was asked to be enough.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0228par0046	No, the item has been voted.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0229par0047	Sir, you voted on the item, the motion was denied. You voted on the item, and here's the report. Matter denied, sir. He said, "No, it's not. It's not."
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0230par0048	Mr. Vural, you've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, I haven't explained the outcome. You asked for the number of decisions, I said those who agreed... those who refused. They've removed it, and the count isn't over yet, so I didn't tell them the result.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0229par0049	You just said there was.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0230par0050	No, I didn't. We can get the transcripts. Why are you doing this?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0231par0051	Let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0229par0052	Let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit09spe0230par0053	We'll get the records. You asked for the number of decisions. I said we'll look for the number of decisions. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 134th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There were not enough numbers to vote on Article 73 (k) of the 478 Numbered Law Proposal. Now, I'm going to re-vote (k) to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. Article 73 (l) of the proposal has two motions on subdivision (1): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law Orders for Change in Laws; the 73rd Amendment of Articles of the Law and State Officials Act; and I offer to change the amendment of the Constitution in the following way, and I propose to subsidiary, Imars, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) of Plans and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Article 657 of the Law has been changed in the following way. The upper age limit in applications for special competition exams, which will be conducted by institutions in order to be appointed to staff members of Section (A) of Article 36 (11), which has been taken under the conditions of the special age of the age in its special laws, is that the entrance exam will not be completed on January 1st, the first day of the year. The first sentence of the first joke is also carried out by the other public institution, the board, the upper council, and its organisations, under special competition examinations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current 478 rows bill is 73. We propose and propose that the clause (L) be removed from the draft text of subdivision (1). Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Doğan Şafak Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0232par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0230par0026	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0233par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0230par0028	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0234par0030	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. In fact, I'm going to suggest a way to regulate these laws in this way. We have 29 letters in the alphabet, and I think we should take it up to 129, because now, just like all the letters are used, the letters are still numbered, and so are the underbellyses. It's almost impossible to get out of it. I have here made a commitment to speak in the sub-arm (1) of the 478 rows bill (I). I mean, we can all talk about it a lot easier. That's what I suggest to our friends from now on. Now, while I'm looking at this law, believe me, I've worked very hard to solve the bill. Now, some of them -- as our friends have just said -- are decrees in the laws of the Constitutional Court that have been annulled, but some of them are specifically made to create perception delusions. For example, one arrangement in my (n) mind is this: What do you change instead of having a future? You're changing the word from one side to the one that they're going to take (n) in the other. Now why would you do that, why would you do that? I mean, nothing really changes in the sense that it's about fixing the change in meaning. I've come to the conclusion that we need to write so many detailed things so that people don't understand what is necessary -- not necessarily -- not to make sense of it, not to the citizens, not to our MPs, not to anyone. So I'm thinking that's one of the reasons why we're here. Now, in the sub-arrange 1 of this (l) bend, there was actually a amendment on the 3/6/2011 Law Code 643 concerning those who would take the special competition specials exam. So, after about a year and a half and two years, you rearrange it, you put in the 35-year-old condition, but you call it the 35-year-old term. I mean, that's it, it's all about the law? So, dear lawmakers, how do you digest this, not question it at all? I ask all my friends, are you not questioning at all? That's enough, that's not how it's done. Don't you think? I mean, there's no such thing as the laws of this country. Don't you think you'd better not use us too much, my friends? You have to say it; please, you all have to say it. And you must have had complaints. One of the things we're going to talk about in this (n) later is the changes in Law 2022; you're changing the words. But, basically, there was a change of regulations on January 25, 2013. Do you know what was done in this change of regulations? If the state provides care for those who are over 65 years old and weak and disabled or are made by a committee, they will not be paid. People are crying for blood. Don't these people have a right to go anywhere? Don't they have the right to take back their clothes? In particular, I'm telling you. On the other hand, on January 25th, 2013, there were arrangements for the income of the household. There's a handicapped girl who lives with a retired father if she has a salary of over 119 lira, if they're over 119 lira when you divide all of their pensions into the household, such as 120 liras. Now, because of that, so many people suffer. Should we not stay with our parents, or should we go to separate homes? They say, and believe me, they are in such a difficult situation. I'd like to have this reviewed by the ministry again. At the same time, it's against the law... the regulations, you know, it can't be against the law. The law says that in the 2nd column of Law No. 2022, the 2nd amendment of the 1st Amendment states: "In any case, it provides more permanent income than the amount written in this article." So he's talking about making a living. But you've made a new arrangement in the matter of the income of many households. For example, if he doesn't even pay rent, the cost of that house is added to this household's income, which is not going to happen. For him, this regulation needs to be reviewed, and these arrangements for those who are over 65 or disabled need to be recycled into a favourable state. According to the social government principle, what has been done so far has been completely eliminated, and with the new regulation, this must be changed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0235par0038	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law Orders for Change in Laws; the 73rd Amendment of Articles of the Law and State Officials Act; and I propose the amendment of the following Article (1) to the amendment of the Law and Code of Laws. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 657 of the Law has been changed in the following way. The upper age limit in applications for special competition exams, which will be conducted by institutions in order to be appointed to staff members of Section (A) of Article 36 (11), which has been taken under the conditions of the special age of the age in its special laws, is that the entrance exam will not be completed on January 1st, the first day of the year. The first sentence of the first joke is also carried out by the other public institution, the board, the upper council, and its organisations, under special competition examinations. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0236par0048	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0235par0049	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0237par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0235par0051	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0238par0052	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are entitled to the number (1) of Article 73 (I). I've made a commitment to our motion on the lu subdivision. I salute you all. This clause, again, envisions a change in the Law of State Officers No. 657. Although the AKP has pledged to implement a new staff regime and a new wage regime quickly, it has not taken a step in that direction in 11 years. The AKP period was a period when public administration discipline and traditions related to state administration were destroyed, where politics entered all areas of public institutions. The central examination, which was taken in 1999 to prevent nepotism in public hiring, was watered down during the AKP period. The practice of contractual, temporary, paid, and acting personnel that allow subservients to work because they are not bound by objective rules has been widespread. Along with these wrong practices, many sacrifices have arisen. Although they do the same work in the public, in the same places and in the same services, their status differed, so there have been many differences among employees in terms of administrative, financial and social rights. It is contrary to the principles of equality and justice guaranteed by the Constitution, which negatively affect the motivation and working peace of employees. As it is known, with this offer, the 4/B (b) people working in public institutions and the special law-abiding institutional contracts, contractors working in local administrations and substitute Koran instructors are assigned to the officers' staff. As the National Movement Party, we share in the joys and joys of our fellow officers who will be appointed to the officers under the same arrangement that we constantly bring up with proposals and motions and support in this law. However, the AKP has humbled the 4/C people again. The AKP ignored paid teachers, counselors, and master teachers. The AKP deputy midwife nurses have disappointed the family health workers. The AKP has left the joy of deputy imams and deputy muezzins at its disposal. The AKP has failed the hopes of working for architects, engineers and technicians, and university graduates, working for workers. Aren't they public servants? Why do you discriminate? Why are you being unfair? How are you going to keep it pure behind the surrogate imams you don't see fit to recruit? How will you obey them? You're going to call me a deputy imam? My dear friends, the AKP does not see the victims of temporary and seasonal workers, the workers of irrigation troops, nor do they understand the problems of subcontractors who are being worked as slaves, nor do they hear the cries. Aren't these the citizens of this country? And know that they will question you concerning your wrong-doings, both of you, and they will not leave you alone. The victims of 4/C say, "Why is the AKP always punishing us?" Seriously, what do you want with these weirdos? Why do you persecute them? Mr. Secretary, AKP executives, have you lost your mercy, your conscience, or have you become poor of mercy? These friends seek your help in seeking the favor of the Most High, and they seek justice. Either stop this persecution and discrimination or take out the word "justice" called your party. We have a motion to add substance to this issue. We've got a motion to issue an officer's staff to these victims who can't be recruited after the next clause. Hopefully, we'll be there waiting for your support. There is no healthy and consistent personnel policy in the public. In 11 years, under contract, temporary and proxy employees have been recruited, while the same status is again being taken in. Clearly, these wrong practices have led to great injustice and persecution by those who are not partial and cannot find employment in these exceptional ways. I thank you, I pay my respects. By the way, congratulations on your Ramadan.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0063	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Members of parliament, there are four motions for new clause violations concerning adding two additional and two interim substances to Law 657. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands to be changed a clause that is very closely related to the bill and proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, talks on the motions the commission has already made, and a number of motions may be made in this article. Therefore, I'm going to have the motion read and ask the commission, and if the commission agrees to the motion with the majority -- 21 members -- I will issue a new clause on the motion. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draft of Article 73 (L) shall be added as subcommittee (2) to the amendment to certain Laws and Laws under which there is a meeting. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt The Law of State Officers No. 657, dated l/2 - 14/7/1965, added the following article to the following article. ▪EK MADDE 43 - The government of the municipality, including those in the contractal status of these law-abiding institutions, can be paid by the Ministry of Health in accordance with the procedure and basis of the highest public servant's salary (e.g., etc.) to 7001%, to the other health staff, on the appropriate opinion of the Ministry of Health and upon the appropriate opinion of the Ministry of Health, given the services they have done. The people paid under this clause are not paid according to Article 9 of the Act 375. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0240par0080	Let's invite our members of the Plan Budget Commission, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0081	Yes, Mr. Commission...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0240par0082	We can't participate, Mr. President, because our commission doesn't have a pure majority.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0083	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the addition of the following clause (I) under Article 2 of Article 73 (I) to the amendment of certain Laws and Legislatures in accordance with this. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Aydın Ajan Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin The following article has been added to the Law of State Officers No. 657. According to Article 2 of the EK MADDE 43 - 1402 Article 8 of the Law of martial law, the state officials, who have been relieved of their duties under the wishes of martial law in 1983, have been scheduled not to exceed the degrees set by State Officers Act 657 each year between the date of which they were discharged and the date of their deployment, and the year of each three years of their deployment, as part of their studies. Of these, the monthly dues of those who are entitled to return to their duties and receive compensation by the judicial decision and the period when those who receive their compensations are removed from duty, the sum of their rights to their degrees and degrees in response to their levels and degrees in which they have been removed from duty and the above, will be paid as compensation to their legal heirs, as well as to their institutions, which are paid by the same degree and level of public official when this clause comes into effect. As part of the first and second joke, the sums of pension and institutional allowances for long-term insurance policies are calculated along with the months to be calculated according to the second joke, and are deposited in the Social Security Institution by its institutions. The pensions and pensions of those who retire or die are recalculated according to these basics, and the pensions are paid by the Social Security Agency on a regular basis and are collected from pension margins. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0241par0098	Let's invite our members of the Plan and Budget Commission, sir. We can't participate just because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0100	I'm removing the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current 478 rows bill is 73. We propose and propose that the clause (L) be added to its subdivision number two, and other substances be identified accordingly. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali Riza Özturk İzzet Çetin Mammoth Tanal Fatma Nur Serker Haluk Eyidoğan Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Law number l2-657 is added to the following temporary clause. THE 42nd ADADDE - A 4-year-old faculty or university graduate from employees under Law 4857, as well as working as a public official in the Central and Country Organizations of Public Economic and Country Enterprises, and in their joint partnerships in the City and Metropolitan Municipality Offices, according to the fact that they are continuing their duties on the basis of this law on the basis of which the law is in effect, they are assigned to work in accordance with their labor status within the 30 days of the day it takes effect. Under the status of employees, the service of those whose status has changed is now in the status of permanent workers. These times are also assessed in the account of the total times of service for the earned rights month and the pension bonus, which will be paid by the Law of Retirement of the Republic of Turkey, 5434. Those who will be appointed under this clause will be added to the relevant sections of the bodies of the bodies of those assigned to the officers and will be cancelled without further processing, provided they are in accordance with their titles and degrees. The Department of Finance and State Staff shall be notified within two months of the end of the 30-day deadline stated in the first joke, with the name of the class-level agency and the unit, which has been cancelled with the assigned positions. The Ministry of Finance and the Head of State of Staff are authorized to address any hesitations that may arise in the application of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0242par0115	If you'd like to invite our friends for the majority, but we can't attend because they don't, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0116	I'm removing the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposals of the Law and Law Laws and Article 73 of the Law and State Officials Act (l) and Proposals of Substances of Articles 2/1613, 1/778 of the Charter Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and Proposals of Substances of Articles and Substances of Articles on Amendments under Articles of Law and Law (I). Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Alim Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. I/2-657. The public institution and its enterprises are in the central and country-based capital institutions; A) From the general conditions listed in the provisional staff positions of 25/6/2013 as part of the provisions of Article 4 (C) Article 4 of this Law, in the case of those with the general conditions specified in Article 48, in writing in the 30 days since this clause entered into force, in the organization and in the unit where he worked, under the same title of position, under the same titles as the general staff member of the General Staff and the Ministry of the State, under the rule of Law, and in the case that there are no ranked officers in the same position as there are no rankings in the same position as there are no other members of the Court of the Court of Justice, under the same title of the Court of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice, under the title of Justice of the Court of Justice and the State of Justice, under the State of Justice of Justice of the State of Justice and the State of Justice, under the State of Justice and under its authority of Justice. B) From those who are working under the 86th and 89th Articles of this Law without a staff, or teachers who have been employed or paid for 30 days, those who have applied in writing, in the organization and unit, as well as in the position title of Master Teachers 24/11/2004. In the administrations under the first joke, the provisions of the first joke are carried out on employees, temporary workers or subcontractors, in the main and permanent tasks that must be seen by officers. In the administrations under the first joke, authors of a temporary or seasonal worker or subcontractor status within 30 days are appointed by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Security in 60 days from the date when this material is in effect. These are the provisions of those who have not lost the terms of re-employment, according to the regulations laid out in the First Amendment, on 25/6/2013, of those who have not been given military, birth or free leave. For these, the period specified in the first joke begins from the day they are re-employed. According to these provisions, the service times of those assigned to officers are assessed in determining their monthly degrees and levels of rights earned, provided they do not exceed the levels that they can rise according to the conditions of their studies. They are entitled to the financial and social rights of their assigned staff from the start of the month, and no financial or social rights are allowed in their previous positions. As part of this clause, those assigned to the officers will not be compensated for the end of their work. The total time of service on the basis of the end-of-work compensation is taken into account in the account of the total pension period, which will be paid in accordance with Article 8/6/1949 and according to the Law of the Retirement Chest of the Republic of Turkey, 5434. As part of the first joke of this clause, the positions of the officers assigned to rule number 190 have been added to the relevant sections of the bodies of the institutions, and the positions of those assigned to the officers have been cancelled without further processing, provided they are in accordance with their titles and degrees. The positions that have been cancelled by the assigned staffs are announced to the Ministry of Finance and the State Staff within two months of the end of the 60-day term specified in the first joke, with the title, class, degree, organization and unit specified. The Ministry of Finance and State Chief of Staff (B) are the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Finance for those who are involved in the first joke (a) to address any hesitations that may arise in the application of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0243par0138	Let's invite our commissioners. We can't agree because we're not the only majority.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0140	I'm removing the motion from the process. In Article 73 (I) bendi (2), there are three motions, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose that the Article I shall be changed into a supervisor's assistant or assistant expert. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Secret Abdullah Levent corporate Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 478 rankings in question, the 478 amendments to certain Laws and Laws Acts, and the Act of State Officers, and the amendments to Articles 73 of the Law Code under the Law and by the Laws of Laws, 2 of Articles III of Article 73 of Articles III of the Second Amendment to Article III III, and 3 of the Second Amendment to the Law. We propose that the following declaration be added with the declaration that the first class property management has completed its three-year term. Aytuğ Atı Özgür Special Bkent Kuşoğlu Celal Dinçer Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu The addition of the Law of State Officers No. 657, however, is the number I (Service Classes of Service), Adjudications by Dignitary or Monthly Degrees. The section has been changed in the following way, including those who have completed three years under First Class Property Management Administration (c). A) Expert Medicine, Medicine, Dentist, Pharmacist, Expert Veterinary Doctor 1 5400 Veterinary Doctor, Biologist, Medical Speciality Charter 24500 3300 experts in the field or the title of expert in these branches The winner of the doctoral stage is 4,2400. B) Other health sciences licenses 1,500 C) Except for those whose ranks are included in this class and considered above 1. High schoolers 1,300 2. The others are 1 2250. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law shall make changes in the Constitution; the Court of Law and the Court of State's Law of Law (I) of the 73rd Article (2/1613, 1/778) of the Charter of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) and I shall propose the amendment of the following Article (2) of the Constitutional Code and shall be offered by Bayırlik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural S. Nevzat Don't Fear The Eki (1) of Law No. 657 has been added (e.g.) to the Eki (1) Department of Applied Education and Teaching Services (e.g., the Department of General Government Services (h) and the Department of Law (e.g., the Department of Law) of Law (e.g., the Department of Law) has been changed in the following way (e.g., the Department of Law) and the other staff (e.g.g., the Department of Laws of Laws of Law (e.g. V. V. V. III) and the Department of Security Services (e.g.g. The 3 years of the First Class Property Administration were added after the release of the head of the Social Security Agency, which took place in the 3rd place of the Court of Justice (IV). The head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, which took place in the 7th place, has been added as head of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, who have completed three years under the management department (c). IIV-DIVATION AND MY TEACHER'S ACTIVITY Teacher and other staff 1 3600 Of the members of this class, 1,3600 A) Police Director 17,000 B) Deputy Chief of Police, Inspection 16,000 President of the Board, President of the Police Academy, Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir County Police Directors C) Apartment Presidents, I. The law is 15,000. The counselor and the other First Class Chiefs of Police, D) Their staff is included in this class, but Police Commissioner 14,000 Or those who have earned the title of Chief of Police 2 3600 e) Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant aa) Higher students 1,3600 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0244par0241	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0242	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0245par0243	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0239par0244	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0246par0246	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are number 2 of Article 73 (I). I've made a commitment to our motion on the lu subdivision. I salute you all again. Subsequent of Law No. 657, additional indicators and severance is being changed. Especially my fellow officers, who come from the office, know very well, and for officers, additional indicators are very important. There are significant differences in the amount of additional indicators in both the working salary and pension. In this context, 3600 additional indicators for officers are one of the critical thresholds. The 3600 additional indicators are particularly important for the pension. According to the current provisions, experts, dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists, biologists, engineers, architects, city planners, regional planners and petty officers have earned 3,600 additional indicators when they arrive at the first level of staff, inspectors, inspectors, curates, controllers, actors, and foreign professions. In contrast, public defenders and lawyers do not receive 3,600 additional indicators. The gap between public defenders and associates of judges and prosecutors, representatives of the defence leg of the justice system, has grown year after year. The situation among public employees, both contributing to justice, has had a negative effect on professional motivation, and it is a violation of rights. There has also been an injustice between public defenders and lawyers and other career professionals. By making every sacrifice to protect the rights and interests of the public, the financial difficulties of public defenders and jurisprudence, which will also contribute to boosting permanence and service efficiency in the mission. For these reasons, public defenders and lawyers must be given 3600 additional indicators. Our teachers don't get 3,600 additional indicators when they're in the 1st grade. Teachers have been poored during the AKP period, among public employees receiving the lowest wage. I'm afraid our teachers have not been able to benefit from the improvements to officer's salaries with SEC 666. Our teachers' monthly and additional course fees are not enough to lead a human life. Teachers who find it difficult to earn a living while working are condemned to poverty in retirement. It's not fair to expect teachers who have failed to meet the basic needs of their own families to perform their duties properly under today's economic conditions. Teachers must also receive 3,600 additional indicators when they come to the first ranking. On the other hand, hundreds of thousands of our candidates for teachers have been waiting for the appointment, and they've been depressed for years because they haven't been appointed. No matter what anyone says, there is a serious lack of teachers in our country, so our teachers who are waiting to be appointed by opening new teachers' staffs must be assigned to them. We must surely end the problems of our educational system and the problems of our teachers. Another part of us is the police waiting for additional indicators. Our police are unable to obtain 3,600 additional indicators, even if they have master's and PhDs, beyond being a university graduate. Our officers, all of whom are well-educated, want the 3600 additional indicators rightfully. As the Prime Minister's promise of police rights was not fulfilled six years ago, police personnel were openly ignored in the AKP government's arrangement for equal pay for the job. When the police retire, their salary is cut in half, so they have to work their way up to the age limit. Our retired policemen are suffering from severe income. The additional indicators of the Turkish police must be raised to 3,600. Work schedules and overtime must be rearranged. The police's working time and working conditions must be met with world standards. I expect you to support our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0247par0255	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 478 rankings in question, the 478 amendments to certain Laws and Laws Acts, and the Act of State Officers, and the amendments to Articles 73 of the Law Code under the Law and by the Laws of Laws, 2 of Articles III of Article 73 of Articles III of the Second Amendment to Article III III, and 3 of the Second Amendment to the Law. We propose that the following declaration be added with the declaration that the first class property management has completed its three-year term. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends The addition of the Law of State Officers No. 657, however, is the number I (Service Classes of Service), Adjudications by Dignitary or Monthly Degrees. The section has been changed in the following way, including those who have completed three years under First Class Property Management Administration (c). A) Expert Medicine, Medicine, Dentist, Pharmacist, Expert Veterinary Doctor 1 5400 Veterinary Doctor, Biologist, Medical Speciality Charter 24500 3300 experts in the field or the title of expert in these branches The winner of the doctoral stage is 4,2400. B) Other health sciences licenses 1,500 C) Except for those whose ranks are included in this class and considered above 1. High schoolers 1,300 2. The others are 1 2250. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0248par0289	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0247par0290	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0249par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0247par0292	It's the Moon Horseman who wants a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0250par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on Article 73 (I) of Law Bill 478, which we are discussing. One day justice is better than 60 years of prayer, and I begin by saying: My dear friends, in this article we're not saying change anything, so we're not saying change anything you say, we're just making some additions. So you've thought of something, you've done some nice things in this material, and we're saying that we should expand it a little bit. I hope you don't agree to this motion, and I hope you say no. When you say no, you'll upset a large crowd of people. Which means, yeah, we're gonna feel sorry for them, but don't let them worry, in our power, we're gonna give it to them as soon as possible. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Who are you going to cross? One, the medical examiners who examined you. Two, dentists who look at your teeth and save you from the pain. Three, pharmacists who are closest to you. Four, vets who cure your animals' health, heal their diseases, running without saying mountainstones or creek hills. Who else? Biologists who make your life easier by doing various biological procedures without you even knowing it. In short, all the paramedics are contributing to their salary, their income, with this additional table that we've prepared, the one you've seen. Now, come on, come, say no to this motion. You're really a little cornered this time. If you say no to this motion, people will be angry with you, and you'll have real trouble, I'll tell you that now. Now, what are we doing with this proposal, this motion? These health workers, we're not just health workers, actually, we're always making additional payments to the chiefs who work at risk, and we're doing some income enhancement to make their lives easier. You know how we do it? Unlike the cruel arrangements you've made, we're making arrangements to reflect on the retirement of these people. Because we're not just trying to compete with people, but we're doing an arrangement to reflect on the indicators, which is to reflect on their retirement, so we're trying to get them to live humanly. So, what's your method of making arrangements so far, in the sums of your salary? The way you use it is called performance, so you want people to work with a system that makes you hurt, dehumanize, that makes you work like a machine. Yes, we have to work hard, all of Turkey has to work hard, but if you force people to work hard, it'll somehow burst out, and even worse, it'll take years, not that moment. How? Let me give you an example of health. Health work is a team business, which means doctors, nurses, health workers, all other employees serve a patient as a team. With the lab, with the X-ray technician, with the expert, they serve as a team in all shapes, but when the performance system, the system that you like and praise, comes along, the spirit of this team disappears, and instead comes the rival spirit. We used to pray that the sick would not come, that they would not be sick, that we would take care of their protective health care, but now that you have brought in the system, send me a patient, so that I may bring them to my house. Both you and your children and your grandchildren will pay the future price. He wishes you to think well, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0251par0303	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 478 Orders Numbered Law Proposal 73. We propose and propose that the Article I shall be changed into a supervisor's assistant or assistant expert. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0252par0310	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0251par0311	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0253par0312	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0251par0313	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to assess the co-experts of the auditors and expert assistants in the same service class. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 73 (m) there are three motions, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to change the amendments of some Law and Law Acts and I propose that the Court of Justice of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way, and Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Scholar Light Enver Erdem Mehmet Günal In the first sentence of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law on the Returning to Central and Country Institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages, dated 21/12/1967, the statement was changed from the staff who worked in the positions and positions of the ministry. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same, and I'm going to process them together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal of 478 rows is 73. We propose and propose that the article "M" be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Fair Zozani İbrahim Binici Secret Abdullah Levent corporate Nazmi Gür The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Kadir Gökmen Öğit Öğüt Öğütücı Öğütcı Öncıer Özgür Special Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0254par0345	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0251par0346	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Anyone want a word on the same motions?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0255par0349	Süleyman Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0251par0350	Mr. Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0256par0352	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. We, the Regents of this nation, have been condemned for days and days, morning and evening, to deal with our laws. You're destroying the basic principles of law with these patch laws. You can't make real solutions to society's problems, just as you avoid building radical solutions when you consider these important laws that concern society without integrity. The laws of the bureaucracy are being discussed in the House as a formality, and many of our proposals are not considered. There's a lot of regulations in this bag that indicate injustice, inequality. Under AKP's electoral policies, he gives his own pleasure, the pleasure of bureaucrats, he organises, he opens exams. Unfortunately, the rights of the foundations and associations, which pay the price during the coup period, are not returned. The government, which has a policy on anti-corruption, thinks the coup is just February 28th. The coup d'état of September 12th has not been forgotten by these people. There are still the effects, laws, institutions, bans of September 12th military coup. To oppose coups is to eliminate coup laws, antidemocratic institutions. The anti-corruption is a clear attitude towards every blow that's ever been taken. On September 12th, return the rights of all those who have paid the price. We expressed it here, unfortunately, it was not accepted. The fight against coups and coups is only by developing freedoms and internalizing democracy, by implementing it. The AKP has been living on the streets for days of pressure, violence, and persecution that can only be seen during the coup. Today, the governor said, "We are opening up public spaces." Did the governor set up a trap, or did he want to have them arrested at the Travel Park, so is he here hunting, or is he out hunting? There has to be an answer. Democratic mass organisations, union representatives, representatives of other trade organisations have been put in the car and detained and questioned, but on the other hand, my dear friends, while today's process is happening, the call from our group's deputy chairman here, our call is not taken into account, and this Parliament is watching this process. But I suppose the governor thought no one would enter this park, and then he forced the public out of the park by using public violence again. Parks are public spaces. Public space is not the state's opening, it's the area where the government retreats. The mindset, which says that I am the police, that I am the soldier, has struck the dreams, the lives of this people, these young people. On the first of May, we saw the blow itself; we saw violence, oppression, persecution. Now, you're a coupger to the People of the CHP at every turn. Let those who say, "Let them be sincere." Let's show again who's in favor of the coup, who's still implementing the coup laws. From the Republican People's Party's President to all its rulers, to its members, we're the victims of the coup, we've paid the most for it, and now I want AKP to get rid of this coup phobia and return to the real agenda as soon as possible. In this country, we're the ones who advocate democracy, recognize the rule of law, the will of the House, offer laws against antidemocratic laws brought by coups. You're the ones who don't know the law, the winds of fascism in the country, the landscapes that don't search September 12th. Now I'm asking, who really is anti-plot? The AKP has brought the public to the point of rebellion with its oppressive policies over the years, with its arbitrary laws, with provocative, separatist rhetorics. Let our trees not be cut down. The sound that rises is like a forest, and it is epic to the world. I'll continue the rest of your episodes when it's my turn. That's how I want to finish this process tonight. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0257par0359	Thank you. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The change is intended to be replaced by the already working declaration of, and it is intended to preserve its former state because it does not contribute to the form and content of the matter, or even because the expression in the former arrangement is more revealing. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; Proposal of Law and State Officials Act 478 to change the amendments of some Law and Law Acts and I propose that the Court of Justice of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way, and Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778) be changed in the following way. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends In the first sentence of Article 3 of Article 3 of the Law on the Returning to Central and Country Institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages, dated 21/12/1967, the statement was changed from the staff who worked in the positions and positions of the ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0258par0370	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0259par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0257par0372	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0260par0374	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the motion on Article 73 (m). I salute you all. First of all, congratulations on your blessed Ramadan month. Dear lawmakers are being replaced by the government... from the staff of the staff and positions of the minister... of the staff and the staff in the positions of the department... under the provisions of Article 969. So, instead of the word "worker," the word "bullunan" is being brought in. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what is the government engaged in? He forgives unfair agricultural support by setting up fake corporate companies to solve agriculture's problems, and in order to legalize what he's breaking by law, he's struggling, if you will. The government's taking the coven for granted, so the government's taking it for granted. The government mocks the Constitutional Court; the government mocks the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and is actually being made fun of by the nation. Dear lawmakers, the proposal is called the "bulunan" instead of the proposal, but I would like to briefly say that those who were not present during the AKP power period, as long as my time is at hand: agriculture's contribution to national income has been reduced during AKP power. Our agricultural exports have become unable to afford agricultural imports, and there is no solution. Planted, processed agricultural fields are reduced, the number of agricultural workers has fallen, the villages are empty, and there is no solution. Our farmer's income has been reduced year after year, our farmer, our villager, has been dragged into debt; there is no solution. Inflation increased by 145 per cent during the AKP period, the average price of diesel, medicine, fertilizer has increased by 4 to 5 times, while many products have counted almost at a reasonable price. On the one hand, inflation has also been plunged into the stockpile of farmers who have been crushed by up to 4 or 5 times the price of input. Farmers' debt to banks reached $39 billion from $530 million in ten years. Farmers' debt has increased 78 times in ten years. Again, agricultural imports prevent exports. The agricultural area, which was established in 2002, dropped from 23 million hectares to 20.5 million hectares in 2012, with a decline of 2.5 million hectares. Minister of Agriculture, why is the farmland empty in Turkey? Why can't the farmer produce? Instead of finding answers to such questions, he rents farmland from Sudan. Three billion dollars in living animals and meat imports were imported in three years, thanks to the visionary AKP. For the first time in the history of Turkey, he imported animal sacrifices. The country of agriculture, again, has become an importer of the stalk and straw of Turkey. In two years, the Minister of Agriculture, who imports 250 million dollars worth of live animals and meat from France, is awarded the Order of Knight Liyat in agriculture by France. Precious lawmakers, Manisa is one of the leading cities in Turkey with plant and animal production, in the first three places, but the development of animalism in Manisa is interrupted, especially because most of our villages in Manisa, Gördes, Demirci and Bridgebaş districts, are undetected in the majority of our villages. As part of the DAP and GAP project, the cities are supported by animal production, while Manisa, whose animal production ranked fifth, is outside the scope of this support. Due to the hailing of 8-9 May 2013, major losses have occurred in the districts of Alaşehir, Sarıgöl and Ahmetli-Kükkaya district. Its hail has been effective in the districts of Sarıgöl, Alaşehir and Ahmetli in a total of 53 thousand acres, and the ties of 2,800 farmers have suffered 110 million dollars of damage, and they have not yet been fulfilled, despite the promise made by the Minister of Agriculture that the debt to the banks will be repaid without interest. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0261par0385	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0262par0386	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit10spe0261par0387	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0261par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough number in the vote of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends' motion on Article 73 of the Law Proposal 478. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 478. The commission and the government are in place. I'd like to submit to your votes the following article (m) of the proposal: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In Article 73 (n) bendi (1) there are three motions, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 73 (n) of Law Proposal 478 (n) be replaced in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan Nurdan Şanlı Sermin Balık Mustafa Moroğlu The 1st article has been changed in the following way. No matter what the reputation of social security agencies is, employees or employees who are required to be insured in terms of long-term insurance, or those who are possible to be child support or child support, will be tied month-to-month to Turkish citizens who have reached the age of 65, who have been deemed needy by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations, as long as they continue to be needy (1.620), the number of indicators will be multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient. From those who are included in the first joke, no amount of income, no amount of income, no amount of average monthly income per household amount for people over 16 years old, no amount of net monthly income can be accepted from those who are able to provide more than 1/3 of the monthly income. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years of age. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of some Law and Code of Laws under which there are some amendments were proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports of Plan (2/1613, 1/778). Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay 1/7/1976-year-old Mohtaç, who was no more than 65 years old and number 2022, did not have a tradition in the first part of Article 1 of the Law on the Monthly Connecting to the Weak and Unwanted Turkish Citizens, and his need was changed to the terms of the district's Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that certain Law and Budget Commissions 778 rows of legislation shall be changed in accordance with the Law Proposal and State Officers Act, and the draft of the Law and Law Act shall be changed in accordance with the Law and Law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Aytüğ Thrower Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Öğümük İçük Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0263par0034	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0261par0035	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0264par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0261par0037	Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0265par0039	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again with respect and love. There were friends who used to go to the terawih prayer, and I'd like to continue my conversation... So I say, "May God accept the prayers of our friends who perform the prayer of the terawih." I'm moving on. The fear society, which the AKP government wants to create, has now overcome its fears. Those who fear the voice of the people may be violent and persecuted, but fear no more. Our young people have overcome their fears with humor and creative resistance. Now the bells of fear ring for others. Gasy, TOMA-based police violence in Istanbul for weeks has reached another dimension with rowed, clubbed magandas against people gathered two days ago to use their constitutional rights. I think, in the 50 percent squares they can't hold anymore, with their lines, with their machetes... those who can't stand the carnations, they've opened all the streets to the lines, the clubs. Now, where's the justice in that? Today, the governor opened-and-closed the park like a joke. At least let him explain to the people who can't get into the park, and then issue a log-in. It's too much of a mess now. Those detained are the ones who resisted AKP's looting and looting policy. I wish all of them to be released in that sense and once again, all those taken into custody this evening. Tens of people were released from prison for supporting the Travel Resistance, for tweeting, for writing songs. Here is the justice created by the AKP: those who strike by the lines are outside, and those who write by the lines are inside. Travelers, our journalists, our lawmakers, who live for their freedom, have been telling each other what kind of Turkey they wanted for years, and now they're attacking people with their pens and their lines with their lines. This country saw Marash, Çorum, and Sivas. He saw the lines, the fires. A new generation, our young children, two days ago, met the lines of the mindsets that created Marash, and Chorum. Our young men met Maras, and Sivas, and Çorum, one more time. Our prime minister, our police, wrote an epic story. Yes, in the resistance of the Travel, they have written the myth of Abdullah generous, of Ethem Sarısuluk, of Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, of our lives. We'll see if they're gonna write their new epics with lines and sticks. Our country's a firehouse, we're discussing the laws that have been stuffed into a bag. The Prime Minister continues to say the same thing at an opening. There's legal violence going on here. Two days ago, 37-year-old police officer Erol Bünçe took his life in front of the Ceşme Courthouse. The young policeman wrote that he committed suicide for democracy, justice and freedom rights. Before committing suicide, he posted this note on his Facebook page: "I am martyring myself in front of the Izmir-Defense Court, so that the police may realize that they are entitled to justice, to live as human beings and to work as human beings, and to stop more police lives in the name of democracy, so that this may be the last time. I hope it works, our voice will be heard, and you, my remaining colleagues, will have the right to freedom that you deserve, and you will have the right to live in human rights and to work in human conditions! And that's how you work, how you force it, how you pressure it, and how you make life and work conditions. Your authoritarian and oppressive mind structure is reflected in the laws you've made. These laws are laws that have been seized, laws that have killed democracy, laws that have killed and rendered law unsustainable. I'll continue on the next part. I salute you all once again.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0266par0049	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. [[Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White has replaced Chairman Tokat MP Dilek Yüksel.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best. [[Applause]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter of the Plan (2/1613, 1/778) to the amendment of some Law and Code of Laws under which there are some amendments were proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission (2/1613, 1/778) and the Plan and Budget Commission Reports of Plan (2/1613, 1/778). Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends 1/7/1976-year-old Mohtaç, who was no more than 65 years old and number 2022, did not have a tradition in the first part of Article 1 of the Law on the Monthly Connecting to the Weak and Unwanted Turkish Citizens, and his need was changed to the terms of the district's Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0267par0060	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0266par0061	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0268par0062	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0266par0063	Mesut Dedeoğlu wants to speak on the motion, Kahramanmarash MP.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0269par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group that we have proposed a amendment on the (1)th amendment to Article 73 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment in Article 478. I hereby salute your high council. Congressmans, aging in human life is an inevitable and irreversible process. The World Health Organization has divided aging into three chronic sections: middle-aged, elderly, considered to be advanced seniors. In both the world and our country, the elderly population is growing, and all statistics are showing it. Therefore, investments for the elderly in our country as well as investments for young people must be invested and their salaries must be increased. So, on one hand in our country, youth centers should be opened, and on the other hand, new centers should be opened for the elderly. Furthermore, the increase in scientific and technological advances across the world, the prevalence of early diagnostics and treatments, has extended human life spans. In view of this situation, almost all the work done in our country should be done with the thought of increasing the elderly population in the future. The elderly should be allowed to spend the rest of their remaining lives in better conditions and comfort. Of course, this is the equivalent of increasing their wages and providing them with resources. In our country, problems arise in the family structure or society at the beginning of the biggest problems of the elderly population. Due to the growing economic conditions, the vast family structure is moving from the core family structure to the family structure in our country. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the core family structure in our country has become almost a government policy and has been supported during the government period. This understanding is also seen in the work done by the government. It is not possible for parents, children, and elderly members of the family to live together in houses built by TOKI because they are thought of as very small apartments and produced in this way. In this case, the elderly and the elderly have to go to a nursing home or live alone in a separate home. Therefore, in our country, the Law on the Monthly Bondage of the 65-year-old Needy, the Weak and the Lonely Turkish Citizens is of great importance to our elderly. Age pensions paid by the state must be revised and increased. I would also like to point out that as the National Party of Action, we are ready to support and support all the improvements and beauty of our elders. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have not yet taken significant steps towards the elderly population in our country over the past 11 years. Government officials, who talk about the aging population of Turkey at each time, have not been able to get out of it beyond the rhetoric to increase the number of children. In our country today, it is a great flaw that elderly diseases -- Geriatrics -- are not widely planned. Our elderly population has problems with many economic and social issues. These problems must first be addressed and resolved. Instead of a nuclear family, family life must be encouraged and encouraged, as in the 1980s. Large family groups living with their elderly population should be financially supported by the government. In our country, home care must be reconsidered and a comprehensive study must be done. Home care is also of great importance in the care of the elderly. I hereby request the acceptance of our amendment proposal, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0270par0075	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 73 (n) of Law Proposal 478 (n) be replaced in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan Nurdan Şanlı Sermin Balık Mustafa Moroğlu The 1st article has been changed in the following way. No matter what the reputation of social security agencies is, employees or employees who are required to be insured in terms of long-term insurance, or those who are possible to be child support or child support, will be tied month-to-month to Turkish citizens who have reached the age of 65, who have been deemed needy by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations, as long as they continue to be needy (1.620), the number of indicators will be multiplied by the officer's monthly coefficient. From those who are included in the first joke, no amount of income, no amount of income, no amount of average monthly income per household amount for people over 16 years old, no amount of net monthly income can be accepted from those who are able to provide more than 1/3 of the monthly income. Corrections made on birthdays are not compared to 65 years of age. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0271par0088	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0270par0089	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0272par0090	We accept, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0273par0091	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0270par0092	I'm reading the reason: The scope of the 1st Amendment on the Monthly Connecting to Powerless and Unsubstantiated Turkish Citizens was intended to be extended. Since the change to the poverty limit has also been restored, the income per household has been taken into account and has been intended to determine the state of need and thus ensure that the law is implemented in a healthy manner.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0274par0095	Mr. President, I'd like to put a matter into the record. Other political parties signed it, we don't have signatures because our main goal was to increase the allowance of need on this issue, which was rejected. This is just a matter of increasing the revenue plant. In that regard, I'd like to have that in particular in the transcripts. But we're going to say yes to this motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0270par0096	Okay, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions for a new substance violation. As they know, the motion is the fourth Article of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which requires that a clause not be changed in the commission text of the law or the proposed bill, but which is very closely related to the bill and proposal and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has already attended. Under Article 91 of the Civil Code, talks on the motions the commission has already made, and a number of motions may be made in this article. So, I'm going to read the motion and ask the commission, and if the commission goes into the motion mostly, I'm going to open it up as a new clause on the motion, and I'm going to remove the motion, which the commission is not in the majority of the time. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 73 (n) of Law Proposal 478 be added to sub-arm number (2) below after sub-arm 1 and the other sub-contract number be identified. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan Article 2 has been changed in the following way. In addition to the fact that he is not 2 or 65 years old; A) Proves that they are disabled without the help of another person in the framework of their health board report, proving that they are unable to continue their life without the help of a person who is 18-year-old, the Turkish citizen who is disabled, as long as it remains in need of those who are entitled to income or rights from any social security agencies, and the employee must be forced to be insured for long-term insurance arms, except for those who are under child support or who are able to receive child support, will be credited by the employee's monthly number of indicators (4,860), as long as it continues to be dependent on those who are entitled by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations. B) Turkish citizens whose health board report proves that they are disabled, who are 18 years old and unable to be put to work by the Turkish Employment Agency despite their request; whether it is under a reputation from any social security agency; whether it has a income or right-of-month benefit; or whether it has to be covered by long-term insurance arms; or whether it has to be insured by employees or people who are under child support or who are able to pay child support, and whether it is still in need of those who are judged by the Foundation of Social Aid and Solidarity (3.240). The month is connected. In the absence of disabled children who are bound to child support or who are able to pay child support, in the event of income or monthly rights from any social security agency, or in a job that has to be covered by long-term insurance, in the case of a job that has to be covered by long-term insurance, excepting the disabled children who have a relative who are responsible for taking care of him; the average salary of a Turkish citizen will be kept by the health board report that has not completed 18 years of age and will be proven to be disabled, and will be kept in need of the social care of the disabled relatives, regardless of their income, and will be kept under any number of any number of incomes. The average monthly income per person per household, based on the sum of income in the first joke (a) and (b) the disabled, or the disabled near which will be tied on the basis of the second joke, no matter what name, can be denied and cannot be given more than one-third of the monthly net income set for people over 16 years of age. Before the age of 65 is filled, the same amount of monthly payment is continued according to the provisions of this clause. According to Article 1 of this Law, the health board report (a) proves that they are too disabled to continue their life without the help of anyone else who is tied to the monthly. It is re-diagnosed according to the monthly state of people who have changed their disability rate, which is essential to their monthly commitment. According to this Law, the rate of disability is cut down by those who are below the monthly commitment rate and those who are starting to earn more than the average monthly income mentioned in the third joke. The second joke includes a general health insurance policy in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 (c) of Article No. 5510 and Article 60 of the General Health Insurance Act (C) which includes those who are disabled under the age of 18 under the scope of Article (3). According to the second joke on the maintenance of these disabled persons, those who are not subject to monthly commitments are considered as part of Article No. 5510's first joke (c) subdivision (1) of Article 60 of the Law. According to the first joke provisions, the amount of monthly or income they receive from children who certify that they are disabled to receive monthly or receive income from any social security institution is paid by the social security agency (a social security agency for more than one or more social security institutions) and are paid by the Treasury, which is paid in this way only by the amount of income they can be paid according to their circumstances. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0275par0121	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0270par0122	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Akif Hamzacebi who asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0276par0125	Dear lawmakers, we have just adopted a motion to change the Law on the Monthly Bondage of the 65-Year-Old, Weak and Lonely Turkish Citizenship, which was adopted in 1976. Now we're discussing a new matter that predicts another change in the same law, and it's a matter of substance abuse. However, as we discuss this issue, I would like to discuss some monthly improvements to citizens over the age of 65, while I would like to consider this system, the social security system, the social system, the social protection system, and the government's view of this system to the extent that time allows. Law number 2022 is one of the most important laws in the history of the republic, in 1976, about the monthly commitment of citizens who are over 65 years old and in need, weak and homeless. I am grateful to the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Süleyman Demirel. The law has shown that if a citizen is over 65 years of age, there is no one who is legally obliged to take care of him, if he has no child support or support commitments, and he does not receive any income from any of the social security institutions under any name or name, and if he is documenting social support funds concerning the need of this citizen, then a number specified by the law is paid monthly. As you can see, an extremely advanced arrangement for the 1970s is a system that is behind it, given the level and progress that the social protection system has reached, the social system, and the social solidarity system. Why? Because if a person has a relative who is on the basis of alimony, if he has the means to take care of the person, he can't be paid in any way according to this law. When we look at the history of mankind, we see that there are two kinds of rights groups in human history. The first group guarantees the rights and freedoms of the individual we can call civilian guarantees the property and the future of the person, the freedom, the freedom, the freedom of the individual, and the principle of the rule of law or the rule of law. That's the first group. The second group guarantees are assurances that insure him against certain risks that we can call social security and face in a person's life. Diseases, accidents, and so on, social security has also developed against unpredictable risks, unpredictable risks, which are impossible to predict. The most advanced form of this is the social state, social protection systems. It's very important. And again, when we look at the history of mankind, in historical development, we see that civil rights have flourished in human history, which is the 18th century. Following this, we see a period of political rights developing, the 19th century. In the 20th century, social rights have improved. So the transition from civilian citizenship to political citizenship and political citizenship to social citizenship shows the progress of humanity. The social state is the most recent, most advanced stage of human existence, but there are many risks that social government, social protection systems can't insure or guarantee today. Social security systems are the subject of debate in all countries. No nation in the social community wants to sacrifice citizens, but there are risks that social security systems, social protection systems, don't cover. For example, social insurance systems guarantee short-term unemployment, but the globalization process now creates long-term mass unemployment. A person can be unemployed for five years, ten years, 15 years, and cannot insure or insure social insurance systems such a risk. Public exclusion is another risk that social security systems cannot insure. Some environmental disasters, such as Chernobyl, are again one of the risks facing people due to cross-border disasters, which are one of the risks that social security systems fail to insure. The problem with old people's addiction is another risk. The right to live in a suitable environment is another risk. One has asthma, it's not possible to live in the Black Sea climate, it has to migrate to another climate, but the system considers it the same as all pensioners, everyone else. A new insurance policy against such risks is needed, a new solidarity, a new agreement on social solidarity. In this framework, the government had to take a further step towards poor, homeless, powerless citizens over 65 years of age, but on the contrary, it was trying to take a step further than the current arrangement. The government has brought in a bill that has improved the alimony system, and is currently waiting on commissions. These motions that we're talking about right now are based on the bill or the material that's in that commission. The first form of these substances -- including the matter we just accepted -- was: the alimony system was being developed. If a citizen over 65 had a son who worked for a minimum wage, for example, the state would pay a citizen over 65 years of age, pay a salary, pay a month's salary, but would return and file a state alimony suit against his child who had earned a minimum wage. It was impossible to accept. That's how this motion got here. We have expressed our objection as Republican People's Party. What needs to be done is not to institutionalize the alimony system, but rather to implement the social state principle in a much stronger way. Of course, without that correction, the government, of course, gave up the arrangement to further the alimony system, which, of course, is a positive development. But the motion that we're talking about is a motion that maintains the current situation in this way, so there's no understanding here that it's a right for a person, a person, a needy person to have a income, to have a right to a citizen, to go beyond the regulation of Law 2022. Modern democracies acknowledge that developed countries have the right to gain income because they are citizens of that country, so that a person has the right to earn income because he is a human being, not because he is needy, poor, needy, because he is a citizen of that state, because he lives within the borders of that country. The Universal Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights, dated 1789, established this rule, and social aid is not a right to the state, but an obligation to the person. The understanding of the state was then passed to an international document, a declaration dated 1789. So, it's not the rights of these citizens... it's like I'm saying something new, but no, it's the government's debt to that citizen, the government's paying its debt. I suggest that the government reconsider this system in this framework, take this system further. Now that I'm out of time, I'm done. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0277par0142	Yes, thank you. There's a motion on the matter that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 478th Amendment of the 478 rows of the Law Proposal shall be replaced in the form of 4.860/pronounced in Article (2) of Article 4,860, and the terms of the declaration of the Law shall be changed in the form of.3,240. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Alim Light Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0278par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0277par0154	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0279par0155	We disagree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0277par0156	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0280par0158	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are entitled to Article 73 (n) bendine (2) no. I've made a commitment to our motion on the substance referred to as lu sub-bent. I salute you all. Both this clause and the previous provision do not foresee any increase in the 65-year-old monthly and the needy disabled monthly. The regulations require less than 129 liras per month, while the current law envisions a monthly commitment to those with less than one-third of the minimum wage, or less than $270. We, the National Movement Party, have submitted motions to the previous article and to this article to increase the age of 65 months and poor disability pensions. Come on, let's make the faces of our old, needy disabled laugh at these hours when we enter Ramadan. As of today, the 65-year-old is 129 liras, according to the latest official coefficient and additional payment. The monthly salary of those who are disabled and disabled is around 258 lira a month, and those who are disabled cannot continue their lives without the help of someone else is around $388 a month. The proposals we submitted to both this article and the previous article are recommended to increase the number of disabled pensions of 65 years to about 250 lira a month, to about $350 a year, and to about $550 a month of disability in need of someone else's help. Dear friends, I ask you, how much allowance do you give your children daily, weekly, or monthly? How do you respond to 129 liras, 250 liras, $350 a month to the elderly and the disabled? Do you know how many liras our old man gets this month? That'll be $5.00. That's a really embarrassing raise. Come on, support our motion, and we'll at least increase these ridiculous months. Dear friends, the AKP government gives the widows 250 lira monthly, giving the elderly 129 lira monthly. Again, those who are in need and who have lost their power in the profession from 15 to 34 per cent due to silicone disease are tied to 550 lira and 630 lira to those who lose between 35 and 54 per cent and over 55 per cent to those who lose at about 700 lira per cent. However, I've just expressed that poor disabled pensions are only half as small as these. Hence, there is inequality and imbalance between monthly amounts. It is unknown how to determine which month's salary according to what criteria. Therefore, these months, which have been paid as a social compensation, must be attached to a basis, to a criteria, and according to the condition of our human beings, to a specific extent, the required months must be connected. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I repeat: come and support our motion. We're entering Ramadan, so let's make the faces of our needy citizens and the disabled who are over 65 laugh, give your support to this motion that will increase their monthly allowance. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0281par0167	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of the law, I submit to your votes the motion for the new clause violation:
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0282par0169	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0281par0170	Those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the proposal has been processed with a new substance. I'm reading another motion on substance abuse...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0173	Mr. President, I've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0281par0174	Mr. Vural, let's bring in the transcripts after those who agree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0175	Sir, I asked after our motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0281par0176	No, sir, let's get the transcripts and have them looked at. When you said... "All those in favor..." you said, "That's enough."
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0177	Sir, the important thing is, in this matter...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0281par0178	Please, Mr. Vural... no, we don't have a problem with the number of decisions. We'd like to take a five-minute break, but after those who agree...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0179	Sir, the intention is not to take five minutes off, but in the matter of the rights of the needy, the disabled, I want the MPs to come here and lift their fingers to their conscience. It's a matter of five minutes...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0284par0180	There's enough to decide, Mr. Vural. There's enough to decide.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0181	I do. With $120...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0285par0182	Why didn't you think of the needy in your power? How much were you paying?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0183	Mr. Vural, I don't object to this, but Mr. Group doesn't accept the Vice President, and he won't accept it, so we can see from here that the MPs are lifting their hands just as the Vice President raises his hand.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0184	Maybe they'll show up, they'll have a conscience, we want him.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0185	I'm afraid that's what the General Assembly does.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0186	It's not five minutes. Looks like you guys are racing against the minute. From what minute to me?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0187	I get it, but in the General Assembly, any member of the party's member of the group raises his hand as well as the MPs raise theirs. That's the app, in the middle. You spoke, Mr. Group did not remove the Vice President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0188	Yeah, it doesn't matter, that's none of my business. I asked for the number of decisions. Then don't wait for the other MPs to remove it, just let Mr. Nurettin remove it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0189	But you asked after... those who agreed. And in shape, not in time, I want to tell you about it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0190	No, sir, it's not like that. I've already asked for it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0191	Please, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0283par0192	What's this? What are you doing with such an accelerated judgment?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0193	I'm reading another motion for substance abuse: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the lower subroutine to come after the current sub-arm number 1 of the 778th Article of the Common Law Proposal of 478 rows. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan Oktay Vural Nurdan Glorious Sermin Fish In the first joke of Article III, the Emancipated Ark was changed by the Ministry of Social Security, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance and Social Policy, and the documents that were to be used by the Finance and Social Security Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0287par0202	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0203	Yes, and since the Commission has only participated in the motion, I'm calling it as a matter of fact. Anyone want a word on the matter?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0288par0205	Mr. President, if we had anything to do with the conversation, the time, we'd go out now and talk for ten minutes.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0206	Yeah, I don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0289par0207	Mr. Vural, the President didn't hear you, I didn't hear you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0288par0208	I didn't hear it. He says, "Can you do something for five minutes?" When the group removes the vice president, the others will remove the........ is that disrespectful to the MPs?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0209	Yeah, no promises. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. So a new clause is added to the proposal. Article 73 (n) has three motions on subdivision (2): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; the Court of Law and Law of Law on Amendments; the 73rd Amendment to the Law and State Officers Act on Laws and Orders of Some Law and Law on Decisions was proposed by Bayınıllik, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Plan and Budget Commission Reports (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The first joke of Article 2022 of Law No. 2022 has been changed to the terms taken by the State or County Social Welfare and Solidarity Foundations, or by the local social assistance and solidarity Foundations, which are part of the second joke of the same clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 73 (n) of Law Proposal 478 (n) be replaced as follows by the current subdivision number two. Nurettin Canikli M. Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan The first and second jokes of Article 8 have been changed in the following way, the third joke of the same article has been removed and has been changed in the form of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is included in its fourth joke. Those involved in Articles 1 and 2 are tied monthly by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and paid for by the Ministry budget. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy Foundations for Social Aid and Solidarity are authorized to seek information and documents from their partners and individuals, if necessary, on their income, life level and assets of those applying for monthly allowance. The monthly bonding is based on social study reports by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations, and on health board reports as well as on decisions made by the relevant parties that are entitled to monthly commitments according to this Law. As a result of inspections during or after the monthly binding process, if mistakes or shortcomings that may affect the monthly binding decision are reported to the Foundations, the monthly connector or the relevant administrations, according to this interest. It is essential that the notifications to those who are bound or bound for a month are sent in a re-responsive mail. If absences or errors are not met about those who are tied for the month, the payment period for the three-month deadline is completed at the end of its period of payment, and the extra-paid sums are taken back. According to the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code, dated 26/9/2004, and 5237, on the basis of reports and documents found on the basis of such reports and documents that contradict the actual nature of the month's binding. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to certain laws and laws in accordance with the laws and laws of law and the laws of state and the laws of law shall be made in accordance with the laws and laws of law. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the bill. Kazim Kurt Mustafa Moroğlu Hülya Güven Sakine Öz Aytuğ Atı Bkent Kuşoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Süleyman Çelebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0290par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0241	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0291par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0286par0243	Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP demanding a statement.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0292par0245	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. In this new era, Mr. Prime Minister's campaign... you know, it was an apprentice period, and then the caliphate era, the mastery period, and we thought that during this mastery period, Turkey had chosen a mastery that would be really more fair, fairer, more law-abiding. We were wrong, this was the time when the sacks grew, the time when the sacks grew, and the time when the laws of craftsmanship were mixed together; a time when no one understood anything, a time when injustice and lawlessness were created to dominate. We're seeing these now. We're seeing these now. Where do we see it here? We see it in all applications. Our Plan and Budget Commission, they sit there when something happens in the new supply contract, which is great, but when we talk about other irregularities here, they don't give us credit for injustices. Where are the injustices? There are arrangements for the foundations, where I'm meeting with the group's vice presidents, and they say, "Yeah, that's right, that's right, that's right." We're talking to the ministers, we're saying it should be.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0293par0247	No, we said let's see. I didn't say it could be. I said let's see Tablo.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0292par0248	I mean, I'm trying to make a point of your good faith, and I think for a moment that you're looking at it with good intentions. That's what the ministers have promised before, and they say, let's see. I know where they're looking. The place they're looking at, you know, when you're always complaining about the power of bureaucracy, I want all the AKP MPs to see the power of the real bureaucracy right now because you're bumping into it. When a bureaucrat there says that it can't happen... we see it on commissions, we see it on legislatures, we see it here, we see it in the legislatures, we see it in the practices that follow. It doesn't matter if we convince you first, we need to convince the bureaucrats first so that we can prevent these and such injustices from happening here. Why am I saying this? Now, it has been said that Mr. Idris, our dear brother, must be the exception of the arrest. Now, the arrest, yes, is an exceptional measure, but if you apply it to someone else, according to someone else...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0294par0251	We've made our will clear.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0292par0252	No, no, I've been told, but I'm telling you something, that's why our Minister of Justice is here. Now, the exceptional situation is being applied differently than anyone else's. For example, those who don't have a machete, who don't have a machete, who throw flowers, who throw roses, who throw carnations, who are arrested, who go around with lines, who don't get arrested.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0294par0255	We want him arrested, we want him arrested.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0295par0256	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0292par0257	Now, why? Because we're saying that this is the period of lawlessness, the period of injustice, it's being implemented. I see it here, too. Now, no matter what you say, I'm willing to talk to you one at a time. We've seen what kind of illegality we've seen here.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0294par0258	Let him be arrested, and we want him to be arrested. We want him arrested, too.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0292par0259	We don't call it a judgment, we call it a judgment.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0294par0260	We want him arrested, we want him arrested.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0292par0261	No, no, there's been a judgment that protects someone, puts someone in jail, and that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0294par0262	What should the government do, what should we do?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0296par0263	You want us to judge here?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0297par0264	Let the machete be arrested and the Molotovist arrested.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0298par0265	I want to say that judgment is political, not independent judgment. Now here, when I look at all of these arrangements, you see, the February 28 foundation is protected, and on September 12th, the property of the mass organizations that the coupists shut down is not given. Come on, there are 23,000 people left here, so let's get past these 4/C people's problems. We call them, you don't approach them. Come, let us overcome the problems of those who dwell on age. We make an approach, and you do not exceed them. For him, this mastery period will go down in history as a period of lawlessness, injustice, one understanding, another understanding. So now, governor... here's a 70-year-old man going to the park, sitting there, the police saying: "Get up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...get out of there, those who don't get up are being thrown out. I suppose the governor's office will now prepare a new forum for that.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0299par0269	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0298par0270	So, once again, I'm announcing from here that friends who are detained illegally today, representatives of occupational organisations must be released immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0300par0273	He can't give instructions from here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0301par0274	The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0302par0275	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0276	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0304par0277	Police are not on trial, police are not on trial right now, police have taken him into custody.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0278	Mr. President, did you just...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0279	Mr. Horseman, we don't have that kind of procedure. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0281	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for something important, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0282	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0283	You just said the MPs vote the same way the deputy president of the group raises his hand.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0284	Yeah, I said general practice.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0285	I'll take that as an unfortunate explanation.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0286	No, it's not.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0287	I find this statement especially sad when it comes from a Deputy Speaker. I reject this on my own behalf and ask you to correct those words, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0289	I've made a statement here, Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0306par0290	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0291	Yeah. No MP here votes according to the hand of the group's deputy president, voting according to his conscience. I'd like you to correct those words.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0292	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0306par0293	Sir, for example, I raise my hand, I refuse, my friends, he agrees; it's not like that at all.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0303par0294	Yeah, we'll be happy if you fix it.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0295	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0306par0296	I asked for a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0297	I'll call. Those who don't agree... There's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu and Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar and 100 MPs; The draft proposal for the amendment of the Law and Law Act on Law and State Officials Act and the amendment of the 73rd Article of the Charter (2/1613, 1/778) of the Charter of Plan (2/1613, 1/778) of the Charter Commission (n) and I propose that the following Article (2) be changed in accordance with the Bill of the Law and Laws on Amendments under the Laws and shall be presented in accordance with Bayary, Imar, Imar, Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission and Tourism Commission of Plans (2/1613, 1/778). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Shandır Alim Izmir Enver Erdem Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu The first joke of Article 2022 of Law No. 2022 has been changed to the terms taken by the State or County Social Welfare and Solidarity Foundations, or by the local social assistance and solidarity Foundations, which are part of the second joke of the same clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0307par0314	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0315	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0308par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0305par0317	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0309par0318	Mr. President, I have been promised a amendment to Article 73 (n) of Law Proposal 478 which we are discussing in the second subcommittee of Article 73. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to remind you what we're dealing with on this blessed night, late at night. The original text of the Law contains the decisions of their need after the declaration. The subject is called plural, and we bring it in this law. Who are we kidding? So instead of making decisions, let's change them if you're comfortable with the decisions made by the parties. Now, there's different foundations, there's units, they're all going to make a decision, is that possible? Let's not insult Turkish. This text is a false text, so it's our motion to correct the mistake that no one will be able to follow, and then the bureaucrats and children who read it will not say good things to us. I believe that this will go through in this way, in the form of the text of the law, which is going to cause serious problems for those who read it from now on, and it will definitely have to be transformed into a Turkish form, as predicted in our proposal. Therefore, it was given for this purpose. I would like to take this opportunity to share with you once again the fact that social aid and solidarity foundation, especially the aid that has been distributed to our helpless citizens, is not justified, especially the amount of help that they will bring to families before the election. Of course, in this country, it is only natural for every citizen in need to be supported in the way he deserves, with the help from the government's purse, the safe. But believe me, I lived in my own constituency, where he owns a five-story apartment, and our helpless citizen in the shed next door took the coal that he couldn't. The citizen I never knew is gone, Mr. Regent, and I have a favor to ask you: these are my neighbor's apartments, and they have been distributed coal, and they have not given me coal. Take my coal, he said. That's why we need to organize them in a system to get them to the rightful owners. At this time of night, the General Assembly shouldn't be hanging around like this -- I'm so sorry -- with false motions, phony texts.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0310par0321	Teacher, let's not say it's an invention.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0311par0322	You're making the motions.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0309par0323	This is completely unfair to the General Assembly. It's not right if this phrase goes like this. I mean, who bothered the way it used to be, which prevented the practice, but we've been working everyone's time with these kinds of regulations without any need in such a bag of law, and we're taking the time of the esteemed MPs of this great Assembly. We have a motion in place. Appreciation is of the High Council. But in this case, we'd both be unjust to our own decision, and then we'd have to bring it back here and change it again, because the subject and the subject and the burden don't complete each other. So this text is against Turkish. I'd like to thank you for your appreciation.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0312par0327	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 73 (n) of Law Proposal 478 (n) be replaced as follows by the current subdivision number two. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The first and second jokes of Article 8 have been changed in the following way, the third joke of the same article has been removed and has been changed in the form of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is included in its fourth joke. Those involved in Articles 1 and 2 are tied monthly by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and paid for by the Ministry budget. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy Foundations for Social Aid and Solidarity are authorized to seek information and documents from their partners and individuals, if necessary, on their income, life level and assets of those applying for monthly allowance. The monthly bonding is based on social study reports by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations, and on health board reports as well as on decisions made by the relevant parties that are entitled to monthly commitments according to this Law. As a result of the monthly binding process or monthly examinations, if mistakes or shortcomings that may affect the monthly binding decision are determined by the Foundation, the monthly connection or the relevant administrations, according to this interest. It is essential that the notifications to those who are bound or bound for a month are sent in a re-responsive mail. If absences or errors are not met about those who are tied for the month, the payment period for the three-month deadline is completed at the end of its period of payment, and the extra-paid sums are taken back. According to the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code, dated 26/9/2004, and 5237, on the basis of reports and documents found on the basis of such reports and documents that contradict the actual nature of the month's binding. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0313par0337	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0312par0338	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0314par0339	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0315par0340	Motive...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0312par0341	I'm reading the reason: Article 633 has been changed to Ministry of Ministry of Family and Social Policy to the Ministry of Social Welfare and the statement of the Social Security Institution, which states the Social Security Institution. It is also organised in terms of monthly commitment to those who have been decided to be in need of Articles and Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Members of parliament, the number of the (n) subdivision (2) of the (n) bendi, which has previously been added to the proposal, will be identified as sub-committee #1 (4) during the writing of the law. Now, there are two motions for the new substance requirement, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the lower sub-bend to Article 73 (n) of the current Law Proposal 478. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan The following temporary material has been added to come after the temporary Article 2. Article 3 - Article 3 - Debts and fines issued in the name of the above-paying or overpaid months as part of the Law have been abandoned and no legal, administrative, and executions are imposed on them until the time this clause is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0316par0358	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0312par0359	Since the commission has only participated in the motion, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0317par0360	Mr. President, there's no such thing as adli, administrative, execution. Are we destroying something that's started? There shouldn't be a problem there. I mean, we don't do anything decent. We call it something, but the ones that started...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0312par0361	Yes, Mr. Commissioner...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0318par0362	The capsar, it goes on and on and on and on and on.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0317par0363	It's forensic, but...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0318par0364	Kapsar.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0319par0365	It's supposed to be abandoned, so it naturally falls off.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0317par0366	Forensics...
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0318par0367	They all fall.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0317par0368	I don't know. Our Minister of Justice is there.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0320par0369	Point taken. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the lower sub-bend to Article 73 (n) of the current Law Proposal 478. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Pervin Buldan Oktay Vural Nurdan Glorious Sermin Fish The first joke of Article 1 and Article 2 of Article 2 has been lifted from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0321par0381	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2013-07-08sit11spe0320par0382	Since the Commission has joined the motion with its majority, I will consider the motion a clause. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, your proposal is thus added to the (n) bendi two new sub-bents. The numbers of these will be identified during the writing of the law. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
