tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. We're starting negotiations. Members of the General Assembly, I wish our efforts to bring peace and happiness to our country and our nation in this first merger of the 24th Year of the Fourth Amendment, which I will carry out after the holiday process of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And during this legislature, our House will work with all its might to carry out our goals on behalf of our nation and to decide our country's prosperity and peace. I would like to point out that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most prominent and important settlement of the nation's spirit. We will carry out democracy, participation, freedom, love, respect and sacrifice only under the rule of the Turkish Grand National Assembly with the spirit of the nation. In order to establish an unwavering will in the field of economic and cultural power, which can compete with the civilized world, we must all work together on the ability to reconcile between power and opposition in order to act on the ideas that came from the nation's Assembly and push it towards the future and promote tolerance and peace among our nation. A Parliament that directs its ear and heart to the nation, sees individual and society as a source of ideas, can only harmonise national motifs with the common language of globalization and establish an advantage in this framework. As members of a victorious council in the world, this should be our historical responsibility in front of our nation. Let's not forget that when we take care of this mission and our responsibilities, the belief that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the center of attraction and power will be better understood and appreciated by our nation. With these feelings and thoughts, the Fourth Year of Law, the General Assembly hopes that the work of love, tolerance, will be more respectable and more efficient, and I wish that our efforts will give power to our social peace and unity, all of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Zeynep Adığan Önder, who asked on behalf of International Day of Daughters.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0002par0024	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have taken an off-the-book commitment to October 11th, the Day of the Daughters of the World, and I wish the new era to be a blessing. A statement that always and everyone accepts is the expression that children are our future. But the main thing is not to repeat these expressions to the finish house, but to fulfill the requirement and to offer equal opportunities, equal opportunities, equal opportunities for all our children. However, from this perspective, we see that a real portrait of equality of our children is still and still not on display in many places. A number of sociological backgrounds continue to discriminate between girls and boys. Although discrimination against girls has changed in different geographys, weight levels can be seen in many areas, including nutrition, education, legal rights, health, violence. From the moment she came into the world, tens of millions of girls were exposed to injustice by their families and then by society. It will be possible to change this situation, which is contrary to our heritage and all of our values, and to strengthen opposition at all levels, only by increasing social ownership for girls. At the summit of the Economic Co-operation Agency last year, the proposal was made by the Taliban in Afghanistan to bring up Malala Yusufzay, 14 years old, who had been shot in the head for insisting only to go to school, to receive education, and by this tragic example to share his opposition to discrimination against girls in the United Nations with international public opinion on December 19, 2011, which was signed by the United Nations as a vision of this approach by Turkey, Canada and Peru. I would also like to express my thanks to our Minister of Family and Social Policy Fatma Şahin. In this framework, it is truly flattering that our country has also come to the point of innovation in the study theme of this year's education of girls. The first stage of the Girls' School campaign was in 2003, and the second stage was launched in the province of Şanliurfa, where I was among its representatives, and resulted in the introduction of 350,000 children to the school. In 2001, the girls' schooling rate was 88.4 in elementary school; 42.9 in secondary school; 98.7 in higher education in 2013; 69.3.3 in secondary school; and 38.6 in higher education; this is a real record. Again, female students are digitally higher among students who receive scholarships at primary and secondary institutions. With all these effective developments, the fact that millions of girls from the moment our children enter adulthood, the fact that the ban on education has been lifted in higher education, causing discrimination among people, causing career goals, and that the right to work is the fruit of the education that they have received today, not only for our women, but also for our girls' preferences, is the purpose of eliminating discrimination as well as guaranteeing freedoms. In this respect, I owe it to the government and all the parties who support it to thank the women of this country. However, it is important to say that in the strengthening of sensitivity and mental transformation, it is necessary to make sure that girls are fully and effectively benefited from human rights, that families and communities also have great tasks, wishing for the awareness that we desire on the Day of the Daughters of the World, I wish for a future as they deserve for all our children, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan (Bulu) who wants to talk about the overall problems of Bolu.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, I would like to start by wishing that our new year of legislation was a blessing, that it would benefit the country. Yes, I wanted the word "out of the agenda" about the overall problems of Bolu (Bulu) but the overall problems of Bolu (Bulu) are too much. Before you go into them, if you'd like, I'd like to inform the Council, the MPs, about a matter that is very upsetting, very disturbing to me. Friends, members of parliament, the date is September 27, 2013, just fifteen days ago, the Bolu Province of Bolu has destroyed a building just behind the municipality. Maybe you've seen this. This building was a public home building. When you look at the destruction of the public house, legally speaking, as a lawyer, it was clear that it was not a legal decision. First you decide to destroy it, then you stop it from the Camaraderie Administration Court, then you decide to destroy it in a similar manner, and then you want to destroy the building in an instant before the legal process is completed. Of course, aside from the fact that this practice is illegal, what's weird is, have you guys ever seen a building collapse anywhere in the world, with people in it? Did you see a building collapse with people in it? Look, I'll show you two pictures. Guys, these pictures were taken during the destruction of the public house building. I'm talking about a two-story building. When this two-story building collapsed, the building's water wasn't cut, the building's power wasn't cut, the building's natural gas wasn't cut. With 15 people in the building, including me, the building continued to be destroyed by a business machine. Look, I'm getting your attention, the building continued to be destroyed by a business machine while people were in it. To prevent this situation, the building does not collapse with people in it. The Governor of Bolu received a reaction from the mayor. The ladle maker who destroyed the building was threatened to be fired in front of me. Guys, look, I want to get your attention, it's run by such a mayor, Bolu, that you see the reality of the situation. He's got a grudge, he's got hate in his eyes, and even when there are people in him, I'll tear this building down. He's got a black eye. I'd like to bring this to your attention. I'd just like to remind you of a word that would give you an idea of what kind of mayor he is. One of the last statements he made to the newspaper was that God makes some people special, and I am one of them. Mr. Elitaş, I'm asking you, how do you expect a mayor of your own to say something like that, that a mayor of your own would destroy a building without shutting down his natural gas, water, power? I called Mr. Home Secretary at the time of the destruction, and I said, "I am a member of the state of Turkey and I am in the building." The building's about to fall down on us. If I get out, there's police officers in there, plain citizens, kids. From now on, my safety and their safety are yours, but our mayor didn't even listen to the Minister. Now, I ask you, members of lawmakers, what will your government do about the mayor of Bolu, who tried to put the building on top of people, who did this at the cost of people's lives, Mr. Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior? Are you going to ignore it, or are you going to ignore it, as you have done so many times? I'm curious about the answer to that. And I will continue to bring it up in the days to come without an answer. Of course, part of the point is, we're not trying to prevent the destruction of this building for ideological reasons. We were with the public homes that we believed were victims that day. If he tries to tear down a parish building one day tomorrow, we'll be face to face with the same lawless practice. I want you to know that, too. As some say, they are Republican People's Party. They're not trying to prevent an unjustly illegal procedure; they're trying to put on a show, to take it somewhere else. Believe me, it's not like that. Anyone who knows us knows us. And it was we who opposed it, even when it was done in Bolu, as it was done in the house of the Solomonites. I'd like to thank the President very much for having the opportunity to inform you about this. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0005par0047	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz (Afyonkarahisar) who asked for a comment on the urgent issues and proposals of solutions.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0006par0051	Mr. President, I salute your high-ranking delegation as MP of the province of Afyonkarahisar, which is still the 58th place among the living provinces, according to the economic, social, cultural and environmental criteria. It is impossible to isolate opium from Turkey. On the one hand, teachers waiting to be appointed continue to be a social problem, while 8,600 of the 8,500 norm staff in Afyon are still empty, and there are still 1,270 urgent needs. Our man, who has no money for the produce he produces, is leaving the land where he was born in pursuit of his lawful provision. In Opium, the population of 114 villages is unfortunately below 100 people. The number of municipalities has been closed since its population fell below 2,000. God does not separate anyone from those whom He sees. The distress and unrest of the return from city to chief is already felt in our province. In 2011, our number of MPs, which were seven in the 1999, 2002 and 2007 elections, dropped to five. The migration in Opium must be stopped immediately, even developed measures for return. You know, the projects for returning to the village for some areas, and for opium, these kind of incentive projects are urgent. I've said it over and over again from this bench, and you've ignored it. He's condemned to opium migration, and he shouldn't have to. He should not be condemned to drink contaminated water, dust in summer, air pollution in winter, and mud. The traffic load in the city and in the surrounding roads is heavy. I've asked the Minister in writing, there's been no progress. It is very urgent that a double road, which we call the road to Emirdağ, Tea, Dinar, Porsuma. The current road is very narrow, and there is a lot of vehicle density. The plague of every mortal accident is on your shoulders. The abandoned State Supplies Office Regional Directorate buildings, the Bigtepe State Hospital buildings are the headquarters of alcoholics and drug addicts, while the non-used Olympic swimming pool stands as a freak for twelve or thirteen years. In your reign, opium becomes the shining star of the Afyon Aegean. We will make new sports complexes and new museums, which have been occupied for many years by chasing after Tokyo for many years, and have been given for every reason -- half of which have no basis. That indeed is an indecency and a sin. Despite such good news, many of our people still have to go to large cities -- Antalya, Eskişehir, Ankara, İzmire -- to solve health problems. Sadly, the attitude and behavior of local and central rulers who need to seek and find a solution to health, education, environmental pollution, noise pollution, traffic and security problems are evident. If government administrators who are supposed to be civil servants act like government officials, even party officials, the problems will not be solved, they will even grow like snowballs, and the avalanche will fall on Afyon. Congressmans, co-ordinating between institutions in the works, the analysis of water flowing from the fountain, the analysis of burning coals, the control and monitoring of food materials that are being sold may be the solution to many problems, if you are willing to solve them. In opium, serious work is urgently needed to ensure that human power, capital, subterranean and ground resources are not wasted, cultural values are not erosion. I have a better, better, better, better, better, better, better idea for state institutions, with local governments, universities, NGOs, businessmen, occupational organizations, occupational organizations, people living in Afghanistan, I have a better idea. With the participation and contributions of everyone who says, with all kinds of political contributions, there should be a convention of Afyon County, where they should withdraw the MRl, which will prevent the waste of resources and time of the province of Afyon, ten years, even 50 years, even more beautiful, and every kind of political mulaza, and every other kind of investment that can be managed to save every kind of money from every kind of political debate, five years. In this way, the investor, the businessman, will be able to open up, build employment-oriented, production-oriented facilities, integrated to Turkey, the unstable Turkey, and the world of Afyon, if you are willing to make Afyon (Afyon) the shining star of the Aegean. Our people, my countrymen, who live in this blessed land where the Republic has been won... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with means of transportation, university, thermal, marble, wind, sun, all kinds of agricultural products, cream and marshmallows, waiting with hope for local and central managers and executives to take Afyonkarahisar to its rightful place. I salute your high council, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0007par0065	Thank you. Mr. Elitaş, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0008par0070	Mr. President, thank you. Now, the Republican People's Party Bolu MP, Mr. Tanju Özcan Bolu, has just passed on an application by the mayor. It's an important issue: the public-house building is falling down, the decision to destroy is being made, but the decision to stop the execution is being made at this time. According to the statement of Mr. Özcan, the mayor has a claim that he continues to commit irresponsibly destruction when he has a decision to stop the execution. The information we have now... will surely be investigated. As far as we know, Mr. Ozcan has also informed the Prime Minister of this matter, and Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0009par0073	Mr. President, the government will respond, sir. Why is he answering?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0008par0074	Mr. Prime Minister is also concerned about...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0009par0075	Isn't there a government here? If there is no government, what is it responding to? Don't answer that.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0010par0077	Mr. Young, we give our word to the members of the group, even though they demand it. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0011par0079	No, Mr. President, he doesn't know he's following him. Mr. Ozcan asked me here. I mean, I don't want to respond to bullying, but I want to give you an explanation because something important has come up. You go ahead, sir, and I promise the group vice presidents. Here you go. Now, given the information we've received... our Prime Minister has instructed us to do so... and our vice president has done his research on this matter. As a result of the information we have received, the public is first applying for and aborting the decision to stop the executive court of Sakarya. After that, the municipality has lifted its decision to stop running with appeals to the District Administration Court, and the destruction is under way. That's the information we're getting right now, but our congressman friend has brought up an important matter. And if there's anything wrong with that, it's going to happen. I wanted to bring this to your attention. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0012par0085	Thank you. Mr. Vural, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0013par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. The removal of an oath, which is being read because it represents the name of the Turkic nation, which we are all integrated as Orientals, Northerners and southerners and represents the founding will of the state of the Republic of Turkey, has revealed to the extent of the opposition of the Turkish nation and the power of racism. I condemn this will, this mentality, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which represents the sovereignty of the Turkish nation. In the name of the Turkish nation, I invite lawmakers who have taken an oath of honor and honor before the great Turkish nation to honor their oaths. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0014par0092	Thank you. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0015par0094	Mr. President, according to Article 60, I have a request for a few minutes on a very important matter.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0014par0095	Mr. Tanal, you know, the 59th Amendment of the Civil Code is very clear: "There are no more than three promises in outside-of-the-day talks," he says. That's just the way it is.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0015par0096	Under Article 60, there is a special matter on the agenda... a very important matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0014par0097	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of the National Education Minister, Mr. Nabi Avcı has asked for 560, 569, 587, 596, 646, 686, 695, 734, 1169, 1307, 1308, 1860, 1894, 2007, 2048, 2073, 2075, 2077, 2095, 2098, 2099, 2101, 2102, 2102, 2102, 2102, 2102, 2102, 2192, 2125, 2125, 2225, 2655, 2655, 2677, 2677, 2677, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 2007, 2048, 2073, 2075, 2095, 2095, 2099, 2099, 2099, 2099, 2099, 2101, 2102, 2102, 2102, 2192, 2192, 2125, 2125, 2292, 2225, 2225, 2626, 2626, 2626, 2626, 26, 26, 2677, 27, 26, 26, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 27, 2677, 27, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 2677, 272, 2677, 1894, and 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, and 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, and 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, and 1894, and 1894, 1894, and 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894, 1894. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has five papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The decision, held by the Council of Europe President of Lithuania on 21 July 2013 in Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania, is presented on the basis of Article 11 of the General Assembly of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Article 11 of the Law on Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission and the participation of Istanbul MP İbrahim Yiğit. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Commissions for Education, Science and Culture Commissions and Development Commissions of the Information Society, held in Vilnius, Lithuania on 26 September 2013 by the President of the Council of the Council of Europe, on 26 September 2013, the decision issued at the meeting held by the President of the Council of Europe, provided by the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is submitted to the 11th Article of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the International Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Open Parliament held by the European Parliament in Skopje on 23-24 September 2013: The decision issued on Transparency of Parliament in Parliamental Actions was issued in September 18, 2013 by Turkish Parliament President Mehmet Tetem Tegelelioğlu, Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Kası Gülpınar, İzmir MP Oyan and Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu at the meeting held with the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey's group, as well as by the Council of Political Party members of Turkey's 28/3/1990 and 3620 Grand National Assembly of Turkey's International Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Three MPs from the Pacific island nation of Nauru have been eligible for an official visit to our country on 6 October 11 October 2013, at the invitation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with the decision dated 3/10/2013 and of 55. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The president of the Kuwait National Assembly, Marzouq Ali M. Ali M. Al-Ghanim, the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea President Kang Chang-Hee and the delegations headed by Mongolia Parliament Speaker Zandaakhuu Enkhbold visited our country and were eligible for the decision dated 03/10/2013 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers. The visit of the delegations to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkish Trade Law 6102 was published on 14/2/2011 in the Official Gazette, which will take effect on 1/7/2012. Criticisms for the new Turkish Trade Law are increasing day by day. It is also not in line with the country's facts that the implementations of EU countries, which are alleged to have been modelled but are not in any European country, have been adopted into law enforcement. The Turkish Trade Law, which is still in effect, is underprivileged because of the growing and changing trade conditions, and therefore the new law is free of its purpose, because there are very serious contradictions with many laws that are still in effect, and it is full of contradictions within itself. For those who do not comply with the law, fines and prison sentences have been prescribed. Tax Law and Turkish Penal Code have not been referred to either. Therefore, those who do not comply with the law will go to prison. Companies are required to employ an independent auditor outside of accountants. For the same job, companies will have to pay two people. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is divided into 2 ▪ after it has been published in the Official Journal of the Law. It is not known which ministry the control authority is in. Giving another ministry a tax and accounting audit authority outside the Finance Ministry will cause serious turmoil in implementing it. Controlling different ministries according to different legislation will put the tradesman, artist and corporations in a difficult position. The law is strongly criticised by TOBB, TESK, freelance accountants and financial advisors because many articles of the law have no chance of implementing it. Article 55, which regulates unfair competition, Article 358, which prohibits debt of partners from the company, Article 64, which regulates commercial book approvals, and Article 65, which regulates writing in the ledger, Article 395, Article 395, which prohibits trade with relatives, Article 562, Article 562, Article 562, Article 562, "Crimes and Punishments." Article 407 is in conflict with other regulations that regulate trade secrets, including Article 1527, and Article 1524, which contains information to be disclosed on companies' websites. Article 210, titled Regularation and Control, is said to be a problem for decisionmaking, which is expected to cause difficulties in the audits, with a single partner and an anonymous company. The 39th article, which regulates all information on receipts and printed documents related to the business, is not practical. In this case, the Turkish Trade Law will have a major impact on trade life. Trader, industrialist, company owners are condemned by this law on the first day. The regulations, regulations and notifications for the implementation of the law, according to Article 42 of the Law on the Rules of Trade Law 6103, were to be published until 14/2/2012. Although a year has passed, regulations and notifications have not yet been published. The Law clearly does not contribute to the development of trade, industry, production and employment in our country. There is no mention of the development of the country unless such developments are made. In order to harmonise Turkish Trade Law 6102 with the facts of trade life, correcting merriment and conflicting provisions within itself, reviewing EU trade legislation, drafting legal regulations in order to reduce money and prison sentences, establishing trade and industry, establishing measures to increase production, we propose and open a Parliamental investigation of Constitutional Court under Articles 104 and 105. [[Manisa]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 4) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 15) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 18) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] 21) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, there are exams at every stage of education. These exams are considered to be a measure in many areas, such as the employment of graduates in public institutions, professional competence and degree equivalences, as defined by the schools for students. Strong data and allegations are also known to all who are trained in Turkey and who want to have a job in accordance with their education, that the tests are not important enough to them, that they are asked cryptic questions or questions have already been leaked. The majority of the questions asked during the 2009 police exam were found to have been applied to students under the name of a previous school's test. These questions could not be explained by whom, for what they were served. 75 of the 100 questions conducted on May 29, 2011 -- performed by the OSI -- in the Level-Agreement Test for Foreign Higher Education Degrees -- were found to be the same as last year's test on 16 May, and even the numbers and styles of the questions have not been replaced. In 2010, the KPSS was cancelled on the fact that the suspicion of copying was too strong and that the questions were leaked. According to the National Ministry of Education data, the KPSS first did not receive 128 candidates with 120 clear areas. 44,000 candidates didn't take the second test. Only 2 out of 120 nets passed 100 nets on the new test. Of the 3,000 candidates with 100 nets, only 76 passed 100 on the new test. 279,889 candidates participated in the canceled test, while 235,134 candidates entered the renovated test. The number of candidates who didn't take the first test was 44,775. Two candidates who made 120 clear on the canceled test made 100 nets and more on the new test. Only 76 out of the 3,227 candidates who made 100 nets and more in the canceled test have made 100 nets and above the renovated test. A realistic and comprehensive investigation has not been conducted based on this data. In 2011, the university entrance exam found out that encryption was made, and even though authorities denied the allegations, cryptologists confirmed the encryption procedures. The exam hasn't been canceled, and a lot of people have questions on their minds. The above examples and other "suspicious" tests are important for the distribution of justice, as well as the discovery of facts and measures against copying. There are thousands of people hurt by the sense of justice on one hand, and on the other, people who have earned the rights of others, and the House can't be expected to be indifferent to this situation. In the past years, we propose and establish and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine irregularities and copy-like crimes committed in national and local-scale trials; the reasons and reasons for the failure of victims to be identified; the reasons for which criminals cannot be identified; the reasons for the failure to be identified, the protection of criminals and criminals. 29/3/2012 [[Malatya]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] 6) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 11) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 18) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] 23) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 24) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, tens of prisoners or prisoners die each year due to their illness and lack of health care. The architecture of prisons, heating, housing, nutritional conditions, lack of sporting and cultural activities, and the problems stemmed from the Penal Code are the factors that trigger death. On the other hand, many heavy and deadly patients are found in prisons, but we do not have clear data on measures, motives, and consequences. The Ministry of Justice has given the number of patients found in prisons 416 and Human Rights Association 266. The number given by the Human Rights Association is presented along with the identity information, sickness and reports of sick prisoners or prisoners. The number given by the Justice Department was announced during an interview by Mr. Sadullah Ergin. However, there is a big difference between the data of the IHD and the Ministry of Justice. The Human Rights Association has not explained how the Justice Department created the data, as it states that they have only made records on their applications. In this context, it is clear that there is no official or unofficial institution, including the Justice Department, which has concrete and data-based information. In prisons, health care is known to be inadequate and unsympathetic. Health care has been known to be insufficient and not properly done due to lack of medical personnel and the lack of necessary equipment. Many prisons in our country are architecturally unfit for human health. Moist, lack of sun, lack of adequate hygiene also makes architectural conditions more unhealthy. There are some reports by TMMOB on architectural conditions, but this report is more about F-type prisons. Healthy nutrition is one of the main elements of health and stay, but it is among the issues discussed by the public that a healthy diet programme is not implemented in prisons. Newspaper news and letters of prisoners do not allow clear information about Turkey's prisons. However, the fact that there are too many deaths and diseases indicates that there is a problem with nutrition. While we do not have clear information on whether warming is sufficient, especially in prison reports by the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, Human Rights Association, the Association of Modern Legalists, where warming is a major problem. Sports and cultural activities are very limited in prisons. This is one of the factors that triggers the decay of physical and mental health. It's a specific program. In its wake, sports and cultural studies must be concentrated in every prison. The treatment of heavy and deadly patients in prison is extremely stressful and limited. Evacuation of prisoners depends on the pardon of the presidency. This pardon is the result of the medical examiner's report, but this application brings with it many problems. Both the slowness of forensic services and the appreciation of the pardon decision are contrary to the equitable clause organised by our Constitution. The release of sick prisoners must be reorganised by law, removed from the presidency and given to the Ministry of Justice. In order to determine the number and problems of the sick prisoners, to determine the unhealthy conditions and possible solutions in prisons, to rearrange the conditions for the release of the sick prisoners, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 29/3/2012 [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Aydın]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 18) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 21) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 22) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 23) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Tekirdağ]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday/10/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 4/7/2012 by Bolu MP Tanju Özcan and 20 MPs, the Parliamentary Assembly's proposal for the Council of Ministers (483 rows) to determine the issues of the villages which were included in the municipality under Article 11 of the Turkish National Assembly. It has been suggested that it be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the lu information and read in the presentations on Tuesday 8/10/2013 and held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Tanju Özcan, Bolu MP.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0016par0333	Mr. President, I'm going to mention something important today, but I'm sorry to inform you that the AKP Group probably isn't even in the hall at 30th. I want my fellow citizens to see this painting, and I want them to evaluate it in the first election. Friends, today, millions of people have been victims of the issues we have submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and have asked to be investigated. Once this All-city Act is fully in effect, this number will be much higher. I'm not going to tell you about the villages that were built in the neighborhood, I'm going to tell you about the villages that were built earlier. Congressmans, you passed a law in 2005, you made a amendment to Article 5393 of City Code 11; you added an 11th article, about the construction of villages or the participation of municipalities. There was already an arrangement in Article 8 of the same law, but it was a democratic arrangement. So you were saying to the peasant, do you want to join or not? I'm doing a referendum here. If he agrees, he's going to be a neighborhood, he's going to be a neighborhood, he's going to be a neighborhood, he's going to be a town, but with the 11th article out, you're going to make the neighborhood whatever you want. Do you know what happens, my friends, according to Article 11? If it is within a fivekm distance of the municipality and a municipal parliamentary decision is made, with the opinion of the State Department and the approval of the Interior Minister, that village becomes a neighborhood without being asked. And you're also saying that the general infrastructure services and the general development situation have made it necessary. It's been applied in a concrete way, and it's been applied a lot. Do you know when it was applied? Before the 2009 local elections. When this law came out, we said, as a lawyer -- and I was a city councilman at the time -- why, God forbid, is the AKP making this law, what must it be? The reason for the law has been established; Mr. Prime Minister, the AKP's officials, in fact said to the mayors as they passed this law: "Look, if you have a problem winning the election, choose the villages where our voting rate is high, make these villages in the neighborhood, it will be of great benefit to you in the election." One of the first people who received this message was the mayor of Bolu, mentioned earlier. Let me tell you the troubles through Bolu: 17 villages have decided to build a neighborhood overnight -- which helps to contribute a significant voter contribution to a municipality the size of Bolu -- which led to the political outcome he was hoping for; he won the election by 2%. AKP Bolu has won the election at Bolu, but the villages and villagers, who have just lost, have also become the former 24 neighborhoods of Bolu Municipality, so this practice has not contributed to the old neighborhoods, nor has it contributed to new neighborhoods. The new neighborhoods continued to live as peasants, living on village conditions. In fact, an even more troubling situation has arisen, lawmakers have been unable to provide services from the province's private administrations because they were in the neighborhood. Again, it hurt the old neighborhoods because old neighborhoods don't get enough service already, and because of the new neighborhoods, they don't get any service. Congressmans, do you know what happened when these 17 villages joined the municipal border? The city's borders -- they've done the same in a lot of places -- doubled. In the past, the Bolu municipality used to have a 800km road network, with 17 villages within the municipality's borders, and the length of the road network grew to 3,500km. My friends, when you were unable to overcome 500 miles [800 km], I could overcome a 3,500 km [3,500 km] network. You went on this path, saying, "This is not the way. Look, you know what this app looks like? Think of a small-income family, who lives in rent, who has three children, who can't get their children to read; they adopt two children, even though there is almost no increase in their income, even though there is no increase in their income, and God gives them to them from somewhere, he says. That's logic! After all, those three old children are victims, and the two new children who joined that family continue to be victims. Because of this practice -- I repeat -- there was no urbanization activity in any of the villages in the neighborhood. On average, he received $25 from the County Bank every month through the people living in that village; although the city of Bolu acquired about 25 trillion resources, he did not use any other than maybe 1-2 million for the development, for the development of these villages, for the infrastructure. In many parts of Turkey, such a picture was created. Now, we're sincere in giving this research motion. Let's go, let's look at the state of the old villages in Turkey that have been built for political reasons and neighborhoods; see what they've gained; what they've gained; what they've lost; what they've lost, except that they can't afford to buy agricultural support from the forest, except that they can't get agricultural support. Let's make this right, it's still practically a village. Even though you can make this a neighborhood by law, you can't make these people urban, you can't adapt to the city, you can't categorize them. This is a serious problem. After the execution of the Allşehir Law, especially the transport system, our İzmir MP has just warned us that although the Allşehir Law has not officially entered into effect, it is the duty of the Great City to do its work. Is that a thing, guys? Congressmans, I just mentioned Bolu City Hall in my speech. I have three minutes left, and I'd like to bring two more things to your attention. When you say "Bolu" all the time, the Prime Minister often says: "This opposition, the Bolu Mountain Tunnel, has tried to make it a potato warehouse." Is it true? He says that all the time. Guys, I'm gonna tell you something interesting. Mr. Prime Minister keeps saying that, but do you know whose idea this is, this brilliant idea? This brilliant idea belongs to Alaattin Yilmaz, who is now mayor of Bolu on June 28, 2003, and is the founder of your party at that time, and you can follow it from the national press that day. So, we're not the ones who suggested that Bolu Mountain should not be used as a tunnel, that it should be used as a potato warehouse, that the Republican People's Party, not the National Movement Party, but your mayor, and now your mayor. Friends, even Mr. Prime Minister, has been using this so often recently that the Minister of Health is making a statement from Edirne. He says by reminding us that the potato heads trying to make that tunnel into a potato tunnel remind us of that by referring to our mayor of Bolu, your party mayor, Mr. Health Minister. Today, get to the truth, friends, it wasn't us who wanted that tunnel to be made a potato tunnel, it was the AKP mayor at the time, and now the AKP mayor. But, regardless of the circumstances, I can't bear the thought of the mayor of Bolu, who I've often criticised, saying to the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health of Health, who is also his own party, How dare he say that? Did you come and examine the mayor of Bolu as the Minister of Health and call him a potato head? I just can't get over it, guys.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0017par0348	You're defending your hometown?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0016par0349	I'm defending my hometown, of course. And let me tell you, friends, has there ever been a time when a mayor of yours has accused a member of yours of having a runt? That's what happened. There's an 18th article of the municipality of Bolu; we keep saying: "Ya, someone here is getting a runt." The last one, the mayor of Bolu -- he was in the national press -- said: "Yes, because of the 18th article application -- referring to your MP, Mr. Ali Ercoshkun, our MP got a runt. Moreover, they shared with a businessman close to the Prime Minister. Now, I'm asking you here, I don't think we have the Home Secretary, but our members of the Council of Ministers are here: Is it normal or not, due to the municipality's 18th amendment application, that a AKP-led mayor accuses a current AKP-led MP of gaining a rune?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0018par0352	The prosecutor needs to act.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0016par0353	If that claim is true, what are you going to do about that congressman? If this claim is wrong, if your own mayor is accusing your own congressman of getting a runt, if he's smearing mud, what are you going to do about him, I ask you? I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0019par0356	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0020par0359	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by greeting you all with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. If I've taken a stand against the Republican People's Party's group proposal, I'd like to say I'll speak in favor of the proposal first. Yes, five months later, we will witness the election of local governments again on March 30, 2014. In this day and age, I wanted to express that I first cared about this group's proposal, and in that sense, our desire to turn the group's proposal into a study of the will of the House. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the nation's unitary state, have been facing three fundamental contradictions that it has not solved, despite its nearly four hundred years of historical history, which are the contradiction between central state and identity, the environmental conflict between central state, the central state and belief, the intercultural contradiction. Despite its 90-year history, the Republic of Turkey has faced the situation and necessity of reshaping and reshaping these contradictions in a democratic and legitimate position, in line with the denial, rigid centrality and mentality of the central state. City Code 1580 has been tried to divert this problem from 1900 to 2005, uninterrupted, without interference, to serve to postpone it, but by the current AKP government in 2005, Law 1580 was asked to replace it with City Code 5393, but not to sign it, the Council of Europe shall reshape its Regional Local Governments under the condition of autonomy -- a sense of local governance with administrative and financial autonomy -- that it will again turn the model of local governments into Turkey, and will again turn the state and state and state's community into a community, which it has failed to sign -- the community, the community, the community, the community, by its fundamentality -- is not perceived by a legitimacy. The mind hasn't changed, and what's meant to be done today is no different. Recently, the Law 2/B has been opposed by urban transformation of areas that have lost the forest quality of this Parliament, but also by the urban transformation project, which is the city's and urban one, the areas of the population, society and communities -- primarily the construction sector -- as well as by the Parliament's practice. The government has not satisfied, as it is in every law and law for its own well-being and power, and has also entered all kinds of arbitrary practices in the law of local governments and in its own favour, and has removed the neighborhood from its current status and led it to different status with the new Metropolitan City Law. As the world goes to Mersin, we go backwards. From the central state structure of the world, based on decentralisation, governance and locality principle, we reject the city's will, the city's will, the chosen, the people's will, instead of strengthening local governments while we are in its practical practices, the administration, the financial autonomy, first, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, we don't get enough, and then we ignore the city's will, the elected, the people's will, the elected, the people's will, the people's will. It's not democratic, it's incompatible with the fact that today's democracy is a democracy of dialogue and negotiation, but it's not a foreign issue because the same mentality -- as in every area -- shows itself in the recently revealed package of democratisation. We don't have any concerns about the democracy. On October 1st, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek stressed the value of the independence, republic and democracy trilogy while stressing the three important values of the Turkish Parliament. It is argued whether we are independent; yes, it is certain that we are ruled by the republic, but in every step we take that we are not democratic and run by democracy. With a majority-based democracy, the power that wants to do everything once and for all, the Law on Local Governments, and the Law on City and Metropolitan Municipality, according to him, has drawn a new frontier, a new framework; amenna, if only by what she draws. Those we're discussing the package of democratization, the fingers pulled out of the trigger, the hope of guns silenced, the hope of violence ending, should give democratic politics an opportunity in a majority of society, where it's strengthened, those who need democratic politics to free their actors from prison, prison, prison, and prison. What cabbage, what fast? Won't they ask? 22 of our mayors are currently in prison, whose only job is to produce politics, besides violence and weapons. Twenty-two of our mayors have been given mayoral power, the will of the people for producing existing, existing, business politics. What democracy are we talking about, what democratization? They're not enough, again, in the municipalities where the will of the people is granted, 83 of our friends from the city council, 37 of our friends from the county general assembly are in prison. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, who are in prison, four and a half years since they were arrested on April 14, 2009, are still waiting for their freedom behind bars, even though they have been convicted of being a member of the organization, and we call it democracy, which is what we call democracy. We have to decide one thing: either we are going to consolidate our 90-year achievements with democratic participation in democracy, and we are going to free our people, as well as our identities, our culture, our locals, or, as we did yesterday, again, with our centralist, denial, exterminator policies, we will attempt to rule the state, society, the people, 76 million from here. Despite all the pain that we've experienced, while we've been conscious of it, and we've been insisting on killing, bleeding for thirty-five years, the efforts we've lost, resources, and waste of it should not be wasted. In this sense, as in all things, the arbitrary and relative approach is incompatible with today's democracy; taking into account the fundamental and fundamental society, democratic mass organisations, civil society organisations and community components, finding them worthy, carrying out legal and constitutional activity in their way of criticism, suggestions. The legislature, which is the legislature, is condemned to be thrown in the garbage bin tomorrow, in the face of the development of history, behind closed doors, the laws of civil bureaucracy, which they will shape with some of the horrors and preferences of military bureaucracy. When the road is near, let's free our people, our identities, our communities, our communities in this country that we've liberated, our local governments, our administrative, financial autonomy, and our desire to live together in the democratic republic by crowning the democratic, democratic, egalitarian, liberalised constitution, but also by making legal and constitutional changes related to it.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0021par0371	Thank you. Members of parliaments, Lin Venan Tavaki Kam, Ranin Randolf Akua, Skir Modekay Jeremiyah, of the Pacific island country of Nauru, who is visiting our country as an invitation to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have now arrived in parliament. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0022par0383	Mr. President, I have been promised a group proposal by the Republican People's Party. I salute your high council. City Law 5393 was published in the Official Gazette, so City Law 1580 was eliminated. What happened with the new City Law? Under Article 11 of the law, the municipality has been able to apply to the Ministry of Interior, taking the State's opinion, to include any village in the municipality for some reason and to turn it into a neighborhood. Sadly, however, after the adoption of the law, the 11th article was used outside the scope of its purpose. Article 11 of this law was also used for political purposes by AKP municipalities prior to the 2009 local elections. In 2007 and pre-elections, villages that voted high for the Justice and Development Party were held within the 11th article and were voted against by municipalities in the 2009 municipal elections. You know what happened after that? The villagers in that neighborhood regretted voting for the AKP. In my area of the city, the Ezekiel, we meet with examples of them every day. Under the 11th article of Law 5393, villages are included in municipalities, and people living in these areas are being taxed as if they were from the city, even though they lived like peasants. However, municipalities make unilateral decisions and do not serve the villagers. The problems of our people, forced by the new law to serve in these new neighborhoods, have reached serious, huge levels. He's having a lot of problems. It's all because the city doesn't deliver services. So, why did you make the villagers come from the neighborhood, make them regret it? I'd like to talk about a few reasons. For example, areas with a very high range. One of them's from Bigeli. The Metropolitan Municipality, which had never been involved in zoning in the villages before, is very serious, by interfering with the construction of the villages to attract the landfalls from the Kopeeli, not to mention the legal vault of the municipality -- look, they're passing money separately -- I'm not talking about the taxes they're getting. This is the same in Istanbul, as in other cities in Anatolia. So the Justice and Development Party is often applied for this law so that municipalities can share in the landfall in the villages. If you remember when the Metropolitan Law was issued, we called it the Great Poison Law, a law to divide Turkey. You're slowly getting its fruit. The Founding Assembly took its life, its neck, its own self, to make Turkey a nation, a Parliament founded by Ataturk. In order to divide Turkey, this Assembly will take its place on the dusty shelves of history as a parliament that has passed a law to break Turkey's unitary state structure, and that's how history will remember you; this Assembly, unfortunately, will remember this Assembly, which I am in, as a parliament that divides Turkey. Look, Van's become a big city. There are police stations in Van. There are military outposts. Do you think the BDP, which is collaborating with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), will do the roads to those military outposts? Would he do something like that? Never and to the floor. You're leaving the government unattended. On the other hand, in Anatolia, you punish villages who have not lost touch with the state, who have not rebelled against the state, who have acted with the state, along with this law. It will not benefit from the opportunities of municipalities from the BDP, which are likely to win. The state, which previously served there by the decision of the city's general assembly, left them out of service by handing it over to municipalities. Are you aware that we have placed a position against the state in a number of states that are there? I'm also going to talk about the other problems of citizens living in villages. You made the villagers from the neighborhood. This peasant did not pay for the water he had spent before; now he pays for the water he had spent on the village, and then he pays for the waste water. That's not enough, peasant after five years. You said that five years is already a year away, four years later he's going to pay 27 taxes to this state. So, you're multiplying Turkey's urban population without realizing it, by moving the villagers who live in villages, who are responsible for Turkey's agriculture, to the cities, you're finishing Turkey's agriculture on one side, along with this law. People didn't live in villages. Nor in your villages. Now, people who have retired, who are just waiting to die, have started going to villages. Because you've made life difficult in villages, it's become impossible to live in villages. It'll be even harder with taxes. I'd like to make a few more statements about this. I want a member of the Justice and Development Party to come out here and talk about what kind of service the villagers have. I'm going to tell you about my own district. In order to please the villagers, those plastic toys, toys, children's gardens, they took away one plastic slide in one place of the village, and they put two plastic swings in the village, and now you're our neighborhood. From now on, you're not peasants. If it's so easy to become a city in Turkey, go swing on those swings, you slide on those slides. It's like you're making these people's lives difficult, and putting those swings, those slides in there makes you just, you know, ridiculous. I say we support this motion as the National Movement Party Group, with my compliments to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0023par0395	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Nusret Bayraktar, Rize MP.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0398	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group's proposal from the Republican People's Party. I salute you all. In particular, since 1984, we have been able to follow very closely with local services, debates, desires, requests, demands, complaints... every coming political party, pre-election, post-election, we will remove central custody of local management; this, we will make these changes; again, we will meet our people with local services in accordance with the agenda of Europe and the world; development starts from the local area, has made commitments to this change, but no one has been able to take steps except local development, local development projects, this revolutional change, various risks, perhaps, despite various debates; no one has been able to step forward, except PART. In particular, the EC PARTI changed the Metropolitan Municipality Law, the City Law, the State Special Administration Act, the Law of the General Assembly since 1913, the Law of Ottoman Parliament since the Ottoman era, and the Law of Municipality 1580, and the City City Law 3030. Now, I can't get into the details of this issue, especially since it's about the turning of villages into neighborhoods under Articles 8 and 11 of the City Code 5393, but I have a few topics to address in the case of headlines. Turkey had over 38,000 villages, nearly 18,000 neighborhoods. With new changes... look, no political party and no one puts a bullet in your foot. No one has been able to enter easily, knowing the reasons and the reasons and the reasons and the rights of the municipalities in the lower city below 2,000, but we know that, even though there were 75 per cent of them, the 3.25 districts have been reduced to 3.25 municipalities in the city's municipal code, and 51 have been reduced to 1.519 districts in the capital districts, 51 districts, and 400 districts in the province of 51, with the exception of only 398 municipalities in the city. So in order to be able to use resources, effectively, efficiently, to serve our people, we needed this revolution. Of course, despite all of this, the total number of villages is 18,132, and the number of people from the village to the neighborhood is 16,535 -- look, 16,535 villages have turned into neighborhoods -- 31,750. Of course, some of the 31,750 neighborhoods will have some setbacks, some of the 81 counties will have some setbacks. In local elections, where there are these setbacks and where our mayors don't serve, the neighborhoods that have the power to vote will vote for the mayor; they won't vote. Actually, it's a democratic development. He won't vote for them in these elections if he can't get service from the village to the neighborhood, but we see, and we know that, in fact, where the village turns from the village to the neighborhood, especially the forest village's corporate personalities haven't been removed, they haven't been deprived of the needs they wanted to get, they've been given extra jobs.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0025par0401	The corporate personalities are gone.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0402	Excuse me.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0025par0403	The corporate personalities are gone.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0404	No, now, the corporate personalities... look, I'm telling you what's going on so far, it's going to be after 2014, look, it's going to be after 2014. After 2014, if such rights and interests were given to them and applied to them...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0405	No, 5393 is different.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0406	Ten years of positives, we'll discuss them in the future. Ben, if I may...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0407	5393 are different.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0408	Look, I'm going to explain the shortcomings of the statements. What's wrong? Look, they can turn the village into a neighborhood. With what? It's the appropriate opinion of the court, approval of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's not like that. Look, there's something missing there. Let me read the item...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0409	11 of 5393.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0410	Let me read the article, not memorize it, not counterproductive. The municipality of Meskün, which is located in the municipality of Meskün, is located at the border of a municipality with a population of 50,000 and more than 5,000m, is the legal personality of municipalities and villages, if the general zoning order and basic infrastructure services are necessary.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0411	What does that mean?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0412	Look, we've seen who's going to supervise the zoning activities there, who's going to organize them. Even in the town halls of the city, well-respected municipalities have given away their rights to zoning in public. But if all of the city's city limits are controlled within the control, control and zoning integrity of the city's municipality, there will be no shortages, no shortages within the framework of the law. However, there are laws if there are shortcomings and setbacks. Look, in that case... the State's opinion is taken, and the Ministry of Interior has been removed by joint decree on its proposal. Who signed this decree? The Minister and the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister. I mean, these aren't ordinary people who run the country. And then it goes on.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0413	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0414	Excuse me.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0415	It's not like that.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0416	I listened to you, and you listen to me, please.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0026par0417	But you're talking wrong, you're giving false information.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0418	If anything's missing, you can make it up to me later, bring back the arguments. I'll give you an example since I only have three minutes left. With opposition and ruling party MPs talking about the capital city and the entire city, just three days ago -- the 4th International General Assembly of United Cities and Local Controls -- which I was able to join -- we attended the General Assembly of the United States and Local Controls. This world convention was held on October 1st and 4th in Rabat. In 2010, the third convention was held in Mexico, where our Istanbul-integrated Mayor was barely elected president of the World Council on that day. And three years passed, and the fourth was done. I'd really like you to attend the final sessions on Friday and Saturday personally. I've had a lot of emotional moments, and I'd like to share them with you. At this time, Turkey and Istanbul, in particular all the world states and nearly 3,000 delegations, considering the distance taken by the local governments in Turkey, seemed to have adopted the presidency of Turkey -- as if it were a pre-eminent municipality. The mayors of France, Spain, England, Germany -- including the mayor of Paris -- wanted to run for office, they checked for a pulse, and when they saw they couldn't get the vote, they withdrew in favour of Turkey. As the only candidate, look, our Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor, Kadir Topbass, has been nominated as the only candidate. In 2010, Kadir Topbaş, who was chosen to sit with weak applause, was re-elected as President of the United States by standing ovation in these elections. It's not an indication of where Turkey's distance from local governments is coming from, but what is it? After him, the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0027par0421	And was he elected as Prime Minister when he was mayor?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0422	Of course, it's the general state of Turkey, the horizon our prime minister has drawn, and the sign of our prime minister's influence on local governments is Istanbul. And Istanbul became another size, the size of Turkey...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0028par0424	He was the first to wait in traffic, and he was chosen for it. Was it chosen for him, because he was the 1st in waiting time?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0425	Look, notice, aside from standing ovation, one other thing: in 2016, this General Assembly has to be in another city in the world.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0029par0426	Istanbul has been looted for 25 years, Congressman! It's the biggest rant city in the world!
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0028par0427	He was chosen because he was number 1 in the waiting period.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0024par0428	Two candidates came out, one in Istanbul, and the other in Bogota, so...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0029par0429	No one can build until the AKP brings money to the county building.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0028par0430	It's the 1st, always the 1st.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0029par0431	No one can build in Istanbul until the Justice and Development Party brings money to the county department.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0030par0432	Excuse me. Bogota insisted on being president -- a city from South America -- Istanbul Metropolitan and Bogota introduced themselves for ten minutes. When İstanbul's mayor of İstanbul said that İstanbul has the chance to win the election, it would look like Istanbul is hosting hundreds of thousands of congresses. In order to make Bogotá grow, to open the way for them, to help the weak while they are strong, and to give them attention, I withdraw Istanbul from the nomination, I approve that Bogota would meet in 2016. The hall stood up, and they applauded Turkey with tears, and they applauded Turkey's greatness. I think it's a duty to share with you here, that we look negatively at the Republican People's Party group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0031par0436	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0032par0438	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke has twisted my words. I spoke of villages that were built in accordance with Article 11 of Law 5393. He teased me about the entire city law, saying I misled the General Assembly, so if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0033par0439	The records are there, I just read the original.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0031par0440	Two minutes, I promise. I don't even know if you're being sarcastic.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0033par0442	Actually, if you look at the records, there's no bullying.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0031par0443	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0034par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, members of lawmakers, in our motion to investigate the problems of settlements returning from the village under Article 11 of Law 5393. However, speaking as the AKP Group, I regret to inform you that the speaker has come out here to talk about what our research proposal does or does not exist without knowing what he's talking about.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0035par0448	I want a promise from you, too.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0034par0449	Friends, the arrangement brought to you by the Law of Allecity is very different from the process of converting villages into neighborhoods in accordance with Article 5393 in Article 11 of Law, such as day and night. One of them has an app, one of them doesn't have an app yet, that's the biggest difference, Congressman.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0035par0450	I read the article.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0034par0451	Look, I told you in person. There are these examples in Kütahya, in Bolu, there are these examples in Afyon, and there are problems facing these villages. You just said here, sir, we'll make them neighborhoods. If they don't like it, they won't vote. There are villages that have been built for different reasons, even in a similar way before, and obviously they don't have any service. You know, you've just read the reason why... general zoning or infrastructure services must be enforced. Look, do you know that in any of these villages in the neighborhood, the municipality has not done any infrastructure work, has not made any modifications to the development plans? Did you come looking for this?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0035par0452	Well, I guess I do.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0034par0453	Please. We sincerely said that hundreds of thousands of people are affected by it, victims of it. Let's see this app, and maybe after you see that app, you'll give up this whole city app. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0036par0457	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0037par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0038par0459	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0036par0460	Wait a second... Here you go, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0039par0462	Mr. President, he didn't understand it, he didn't read it. He teased me.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0036par0463	Here you are, Mr. Flagtar, and I give you my word for two minutes of bullying.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0039par0465	Mr. President, dear friends, I've read it very well, it's not possible to explain the entire detail in ten minutes, but first of all, there may be a lack of service in some of these villages. I said, "They're also controversial." I didn't tell every village, every neighborhood, it was built, it was built, the infrastructure was built, the villages were satisfied. Maybe because what did I tell you? According to the figures detected here, there are over 16,000 neighborhoods. One of them, two of them, three of them, five of them, ten of them may be missing, but 95 percent may be satisfied, but if not three months later, five months later, there is an election. Only the matter of the villages that were converted into the neighborhood was said: "With the approval of the Ministry of Internal Affairs." The Ministry of Interior's proposal, the positive opinion of the State, with the signature of the joint decree... (First, I said, how these villages should not be told wrong about how they were converted into the neighborhood, a district municipality should be followed legally if the municipality did not serve it, plus the citizen will follow them in democratic ways. Don't get it wrong, we know all this, all the villages of Istanbul, all the villages of the forest, and much of the city of Kopeli.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0040par0466	We know the neighborhood.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0041par0467	Not all of it, not all of it, not all of it.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0039par0468	...I also know all about Turkey because I work in local governments. In order for it to be perfect, it has to be resolved, and suddenly it doesn't all work out. But if we don't bring these laws in this way and follow them, there's no way those villagers will be able to get the services that they'll be pleased with, including those who have turned into neighborhoods. We have claimed that the way to get good service will be possible in this way, in local unity and unity, with all resources, with all resources, with staff, with all the money, with all the money, with the staff, with the right employees, with the right work, with the right driver's license, with the right driver's license, with the right qualified presidents. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0471	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0043par0475	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0476	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0043par0477	I'm sorry, I'm an Istanbul MP. Mr. orator just said... he didn't tell the truth about Istanbul because Istanbul has a parking problem, a citizen can't find a parking lot. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0478	Mr. Tanal, I'd like to discuss a group proposal, please.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0043par0479	I get it, but he didn't tell me the truth about Istanbul. If allowed, in two minutes...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0480	In the charter, there is a clear promise on both sides... and the words have been fulfilled.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0044par0481	We'll tell you about Istanbul on another agenda.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0043par0482	So there's the zoning problem, there's the parking problem, there's the environmental problem, there's the school problem, there's Istanbul.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0483	No, please, I can't promise.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0045par0484	Mahmut Bey, Istanbul has only one problem: the Avanta problem, there are no other problems.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0043par0485	So they just took care of the perks.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0486	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0046par0487	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit01spe0042par0488	I'll call. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0042par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted... and there is enough to decide. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Advice 8/10/2013 on Tuesday (now), the following proposal was approved by the General Assembly. Mustafa Elitaş Muharrem Tüktay Vural Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president of the vice president group. The drafting of the legislation of 491, 322, 383, 482, 422 and 187, in the section of "The Bill of Laws and Other Affairs From Commissions" of the agenda, has been adopted into the rankings of 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. 8/10/2013 Tuesday (today) 23 p.m. Until 00 p.m., Until Wednesday's merger of 9/10/2013, until the meeting of the 126th Amendment, On Thursday, 10/10/2013, until the completion of the talks on the 420th Bill of Law, It's recommended.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0047par0026	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0042par0027	Yeah...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0047par0028	I want word, sir, on the recommendation of the Council.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0042par0029	In favor, against?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0047par0030	Against you, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0042par0031	Yeah, it's Kamer Young, the Tunceli MP who's taking a stand against the Council's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0047par0033	Thank you very much. Mr. President, lawmakers, I wish you the best and the best of the new year of life. Let's hope that the new year of legislation will lead to our country, our nation...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0048par0035	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0049par0036	Mr. Tanal, in favor, against? I'm sorry, I'll reboot, Mr. Young, just a second.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0048par0038	Against you, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0049par0039	Yeah, I'm rebooting. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0050par0041	Hopefully, in the new year of legislation, we'll do very well for our country, for our nation. First of all, we're going to remove this pressure in this House, we're going to get lawmakers to speak freely here, and the ruling party doesn't attack and insult us every time we stand on the stand here. Now, dear lawmakers, we're moving on to a new year of legislation. There are serious problems in our country during this year of legislature. Look, when the Parliament Speaker opened the House here, he said: "Sir, let the MPs speak cleanly. Let him speak what the President of the People's Republican Party (CHP) MPs say: "This CHP mentality is filth." He says. The president of this CHP himself is black, doing all sorts of ugly things to get to the white. Now, after the president of a party saying these words -- and then the words said to us, in the middle -- the man sitting here in the office of the Speaker of Parliament -- you lawmakers come out here and talk to him, speak to him very clearly -- can they be called...? That's all there is to it. Now, friends, the regime in Turkey is in serious trouble. Now, the AKP government has to decide something. Are you going to run the state on secular republican principles brought to the Republic of Turkey, or are you going to run the state on the basis of religion? Let's make a decision, let's be clear. In your time, unfortunately, with every action you bring, dynamite is laid on the foundation of the secular state of the Republic of Turkey, the republic is destroyed, the principles of the republic are destroyed. Instead, a state system based on religious principles is brought in. It's open everywhere now. Now, friends, if this is a state of law, if the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, the law should apply here, the Constitution should be valid, the Constitutional Court should be valid. Now, what does it mean to bring freedom of turbans in public? It literally means lifting the secularism principle in the Constitution. What's he saying? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Friends, the limits of freedom of religion are stated in the 24th article of our Constitution. He brings freedom of religion, brings freedom of faith, but there, he says, no one and no one can base the economic, social, political structures of the state on principles that are sacred in religion and religion. Now, some of our people can, of course, live their beliefs, we respect it, but the place where faith happens is private life, it can't be public. The Constitutional Court has a ruling on this issue, and our Constitution has a Article 24. You can't release the headscarf in Turkey unless you remove the 24th article. You've taken the law into your own hands. Turkey has no judiciary, and today there is no judiciary protecting the secular state of the Republic of Turkey. If there was a trial... why is the person sitting in this office of the Public Prosecutor's Office doing that job, which republic does which state's attorney's office? Where are these legal institutions when the government is being destroyed, when the government is being destroyed, when the secular republic is being destroyed, when the state is being torn apart? You see, everyone lives in a state of mind as if their blood were frozen, as if there was fear in everyone. Now, how does this have anything to do with democracy, people? Look, the government of the Republic of Turkey's founding philosophy is clear. Now, some people... have you ever seen the wife of an Iranian president on stage today? Okay, he's wearing a headscarf or a sheet, and he can live his own private life, but -- the government of the Republic of Turkey -- you can't come and sit in the Turkish Grand National Assembly with a flag of Sharia. This is a total challenge to the secular state and institutions of the Republic of Turkey established by Ataturk, which in no other way means. Besides, you're lifting our oath. Congressmans, as every generation's children of every country begin their lives, a national consciousness must be created in their souls, the love of country and nation must be instilled in them. You can't raise a child who's unconscious, without national feelings, without love for the country and the nation. It's all over the world. Sir, now look, what did Ataturk, who founded this state, say? The people who founded the state of the Republic of Turkey are called the Turkish nation. In this synthesis is a Kurd, a Laz. There is a Circeçeli. There is an Albanian. Therefore, when it is said, "Happy is my Turk!," "Happy is my Kurd," and Laz is understood, and Cerkez is understood. So, friends, let's understand these facts. There are rules for us to maintain unity and integrity in this country. There are examples of this in the world, but some imperialist forces are trying to divide Turkey. Why are they trying to divide it? Sir, to divide this country... they don't suddenly divide it... that they will first prepare its infrastructure, that they will go to the dual language system, destroy its national emotions, destroy the national values that sustain it. The principles of Ataturk, the founder of this state, are the ones that sustain this state. So when you eliminate these principles, people fall into a void, friends. Again, about the camisoles, someone's coming out, talking. Friends, what the Alevi citizen says is that the zoning law describes places of worship. In these words, as described, you will put in one house, such as the church, mosque, synagogue, synagogue. I mean, there's no need to be offended by that, if you're really going to... There are also a lot of arbitrary governments in the government, friends, very segregating, especially based on belief. Today, I don't want to say things, I don't want to say words, but I also need to tell you some facts. Not one Alevi citizen was hired at the time of AKP power; he was not hired as a trustee, he was not taken as a doctor, he was not taken as a judge. These are the things that are especially done. After that, let's not go out and make a distinction between our Aleki brothers. Our president says I don't do politics in race or religion. Because we're human beings, what's precious to us is the person that matters. Man is a fundamental element to us. So I don't care about man's religion, his religion, his race, his language, his religion. We can only defend the unity and integrity of the country by loving each other on a human basis, or else we're taking this country to pieces. Now, today, folks, look, there's no control in the government. The Court does not supervise anything, and the Court does not account for anything. Now we bring them here from time to time. The AKP MPs are to blame for this. The people who spend this country's money all over the place today, if you don't answer for it, of course you will. Look, there are 100 or so cases against the mayor of Istanbul between 2005 and 2009, where the Minister of the Interior has gone to the State, where the prosecution has decided that he has committed major corruption in the road and intersection tenders. In 2010, the prosecutor still doesn't open the investigation, and he goes to various reasons not to open the investigation, and what does he do? Sir, let's refer it to an expert here. So today prosecutors don't do their duty, the Supreme Court doesn't do their duty, the Supreme Court doesn't do their duty. Now, here comes the opposition party in the House, and unfortunately, what we're saying is going in one ear, coming out the other. We, my friends, have to get together at some point. We all benefit from the integrity of the state of the Republic of Turkey, in the coming of honest governance in this country. If this country isn't run honestly, if there's no law, if there's no justice, we can't keep this country, this nation together. We're already in the geography where many foreign forces, imperial forces, have eyes, so we need to work together against them. No one needs to insult or exclude anyone. The democratic measures you bring are not about democracy, but about dividing the country. Sir, you can't do second language. There's only Kurdish in Turkey, there's no other language, there's Zazaca, there's Dersimian, there's Albanian, there's Lazca. So you're bringing a different language into one race, and, well, aren't the others human? Don't they have a race? Don't they have value in their language? You need to think about that. So, whoever's strong, I'll take care of it, and I'll stay out of it. I think it means tearing the nation apart. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0051par0063	Yes, thank you. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 05.08.2011, I issued a "law proposal to ensure the use of employees of criminal execution institutions from the implementation of a fiscal service increase" on CHP Group Chairman number 29 has not been addressed in commissions and General Assembly until now, with the number of 2/41 fundamentals. In accordance with Article 37 of the Council of Parliament, I would like to inform you that the law should be brought to the General Assembly. Erdogan Ürk, İstanbul MP as the owner of the proposal.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0052par0074	Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0051par0075	No, Mr. Akar, it has to be him, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0053par0076	Mr. President, it's my fault, I had to transfer it.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0051par0077	On behalf of a member of parliament, Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0054par0078	I've petitioned the law...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0051par0079	Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0055par0080	There's a petition, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0054par0081	There's a petition in the law.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0056par0082	Yes, he can speak as a congressman.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0057par0083	Mr. Akar, we're looking to see if you have a petition to attend.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0054par0084	Yes, I do.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0057par0085	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0054par0087	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we did it properly, we submitted our petition, but I guess the bureaucrat friends jumped, so we fixed it. Now, by the power vested in us by the Civil Code, two years ago, the original commission was offered to the Plan and Budget Commission to improve the situation of the members of the criminal execution institutions by offering a law proposal to the Justice Commission. Of course, we all know that this is not just improving the status of the staff in the criminal execution institutions, but that many trade groups in Turkey have the same problems. Although we have repeatedly offered them a law to improve their situation, the commission insists on not taking it on the agenda, as it insists it does not, these problems are not being dealt with. Again, as shown in this example two years ago, in the seventh month of 2012, and in the 12th month of 2012, with our friends at the Prison Commission, for example, about improving the rights of their staff at the execution institutions, our lawyer Ugur Bayraktutan has made us the legal proposals on this issue, but since none of this has been discussed, with the authority given to us by the Interior Charter. The common attributes of this proposal are the improvement of the rights of the personnel of the criminal execution institutions. So we'd like to talk about the rights of our friends, whom we know in public, but who don't call themselves the names, who have been corrected by a law, but are still referred to as a guard. We also feel that a step must be taken to address this problem in all trade groups. With this proposal, we propose a amendment to Article 40 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. What is the 40th article? These friends of ours were excluded from the application of a fiscal service increase, so our friends were actually put into general administrative personnel in the definition of the Social Security Agency, but when they wanted unionization, they weren't allowed to form a union because they were our friends in charge of security. And so these friends of ours were excluded from the practice of actual service. Now, with this proposal of law, we demand that our friends take advantage of this depletion increase, take advantage of the actual service increase. Of course, we need to look at the working conditions of these friends, folks. Look, it's going to be Eid Day soon. Let me take this opportunity to celebrate the Feast of Sacrifices of all Turkey and the Islamic world, but while you cut your sacrifices on the first day of the Festival of Sacrifice, while we kiss the hands of our parents, our elders, our wives, our friends on the holiday, while we go to visit our friends at the execution institutions, they will be on duty at the Memorial Day. Again, as well as other holidays, these friends of ours have been given an open opinion -- is that a good thing? Something good is being made clear, prisoners meet their families, meet their friends -- what are our friends doing there? They're working overtime. So, do they get paid for these shifts? Of course they can't. Their second problem is these friends of ours. Again, because of the definition and quality of the job, our friends were actually in the general management class when they were supposed to be in the safety and safety class, and because of that definition, they should actually be unionised, they should be able to form a union, but the Social Security Agency says something else, so, you know, they don't let them form a union because it's in safety and security class. This is a complete discrepancy, so he's putting them in a general management class so that they don't take advantage of certain rights on one side, he's taking them into the general management class so that the security forces don't take advantage of their rights, and on the other hand, you're in security class this time so they don't form a union. When we look at our prisoners and prisoners in prisons, there are actually two kinds of prisoners: one is convicted by a court order, and one is convicted by a government salary. Like prisoners, our friends who live far away from the light of day are actually experiencing various psychological problems, unable to use their permissions, and are facing many problems. Now, my next friend will explain, but a government that boasts about building a prison, a government that boasts about building a prison, thinks justice is only within four walls, ignoring the problems of our friends. They try to serve 30,000 people and 120,000 people. We immediately request that this offer be raised, and we demand that the rights of our friends be improved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0058par0101	Thank you. Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0059par0104	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, Mr. Haydar has told me, there are two kinds of prisoners in prisons, two kinds of prisoners. One by law, sometimes in prison, even if they're wrong, the number of prisoners is 135 thousand. During the AKP period, unfortunately, because of the laws they enforced, everyone becomes a terrorist criminal. Another is taking the exam, winning the exam, the inmates who are volunteering. These are death guard officers. We, members of the Republican People's Party Prison Commission, have visited nearly 130. In the prisons we went to, we listened to the problems of prisoners who wrote letters to us, wanted to talk, wanted to spread their problems, as well as the death penalty officers. Dear friends, death guard officers, perhaps the most unlucky officers in the officers, they're like prisoners. As soon as they start working in prison, they're cut off from outside. They don't have a chance to meet their wives, children, or anyone in an emergency, and they're completely cut off from the outside. They're affected by all the bad conditions in prison, like all the prisoners. Food is a problem near all the prisons we've been to. Three meals are available for 4 TL, three meals for 4 TL. Neither the prisoners nor the guards of execution can feed enough of these foods in prison, I'm afraid. Of course, if it was just food, it could be turned off, but is that the only problem? No. Execution officers, managers, vice principals, candidates, technical officers, all of their problems are mountain-like and waiting to be solved. Unfortunately, for 11 years, the AKP government hasn't stepped foot in this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the officers of the execution guard say: "There's a police officer in uniform who owns it, but we don't own it. We're wearing uniforms, we're on duty, we've got guns, but there's no use to us. Although we do security services, we are in the general management service class. They work 24 hours a day, but they can't get overtime on all holidays, even though they work on holidays. The only officer who doesn't get overtime is probably the death guard. Unfortunately, the death guard can't see Christmas, they can't see holidays, they're working all the holidays. This, my dear friends, is bad for both the officers and the families of the prisoners. Unfortunately, since they have not been visited outside the festival, not only can the execution guard take a holiday but also the inmates have to travel on the holiday. Dear lawmakers, even though they're security, the police, the soldier, have a share of wear, carry weapons, wear uniforms like other officers, but have no sense of wear. Now, for example, I'd like to separate the opposition lawmakers. Dear friends, look, even the AKP lawmakers don't even do anything, but even you have a share of wear and tear, but unfortunately, the execution officers have no sense of wear and tear. Again, death guards wear uniforms, but they're considered civil servants. Look at their uniforms, guys. As a congressman, I've seen their uniforms, and I'm embarrassed. When the T-shirts they wear are washed, they get two sizes smaller, they wear boots in the summer, they don't press their pants. I mean, deathguards, like step-sons, live in very bad conditions in every sense. Friends, the death guard is carrying weapons while they're on duty, the day they retire, guns are being taken from them. Again, valuable lawmakers, execution guards working in prison, managers, vice principals do not want to retire. Why don't they want to retire? Let's say the manager gets a salary of 4,000 liras, and the day he retires, it goes down to 2,000 liras. The heads of the execution guard receive 3,000 liras on the day they retire, at $1,900 on the day they retire, their salary is £1,800. Of course, the costs are the same, unfortunately, they can't retire and they're waiting for retirement in the grave, death guard. Prison wardens working in executive staffs cannot receive salaries from the same additional indicators as equal staffs at other institutions. Again, valuable lawmakers, social life zero. A lot of prisons are built outside the city; some of them have housing, some of them don't have housing. In places where there are housing, both their children and their wives live as if they live in prison, they have no relationship with the outside, and unfortunately, social life in all civil servants is very common to these people. I believe you'll take our views on the arrangements for the death guard, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0060par0119	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0061par0121	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit02spe0060par0122	I'll call the number of decisions I need. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. İstanbul MP Erdogan Erdogan had not been able to find enough to vote on the motion to be taken directly into consideration according to Article 37 of the Interior Charter. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's enough to decide. The motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. We're going to vote for members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly commissions. I will have the list of candidates shown in political parties for membership read separately according to the 21st Article of the Interior Charter. Constitutional Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] S. Nevzat Don't Fear Isparta Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Justice Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. National Defence Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] Mehmet S. The Hamza boys are in Diyarbakir Lightning M. Ramazanoğlu Kahramanmarash [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the reading list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Internal Affairs Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Kırklareli [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Foreign Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] H. Hami Yıldırım Burdur [[6]] [[3]] D. Ali Torlak İstanbul [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Environmental Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Memberships Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] Mehmet S. The Hamza boys are in Diyarbakir [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Agriculture, Forest and Village Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Memberships Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Propose Commission Memberships Candidate List [[13]] Justice and Development Party [[8]] [[3]] [[1]] [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Plan and Budget Commission Membership Candidate List [[40]] Justice and Development Party [[25]] [[9]] [[4]] [[2]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Public Economic Initiative Commission Memberships Candidate List [[35]] Justice and Development Party [[21]] [[9]] [[3]] [[2]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Human Rights Review Commission Membership Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. European Union Integration Commission Membership Candidate List [[25]] Justice and Development Party [[15]] [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Women's Male Equality Commission's Memberships Candidate List [[26]] Justice and Development Party [[16]] [[6]] [[3]] Peace and Democracy Party [[1]] I submit the list to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the commissions must meet and elect the President, the Vice President, the Speaker and the Clerk according to Article 24 of the Interior Charter. Therefore, on Tuesday (October 8, 2013), Justice; European Union Harmony; Environment; Foreign Affairs; Human Rights Review; Public Economic Initiatives; National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports; National Defence; Plan and Budget; Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs and Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs commissions are at 18. In their own conference halls, the petition commission is at 18 p.m. The Constitutional Court of Human Rights shall meet in the Assembly Hall at 0200, while the Commission for Association, Development, Development, Transport and Tourism; Internal Affairs; Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology shall meet in their conference rooms at 1900, while the Commission for Equality of Women shall meet at 1900. The meeting of the commissions will also be announced on the plasma screen.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0673	Mr. President, now, sir, this commission is in violation of the Constitutional Court election. In Article 95 of the Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey states that it operates according to its charter and that all activities must be represented here according to the parliamentary ratios of all parties. Now, in this 24th article, there's a president, vice president, spokesman and clerk's election, but it's chosen from one party. Now, to me, the election here is against Article 95 of the Constitution because the president's ruling party, the vice president's ruling party, the spokesman's ruling party, the clerk's ruling party. With this kind of election system, there's only one party management.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0674	Yes, thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0675	If you agree, in accordance with Article 63, I would like to have a formal discussion on this matter.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0676	No, the practice has always been like that, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0677	Sir, the procedure may be so, but it's wrong. Mr. President, the wrong procedure...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0678	They're making their own choices, once in a while.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0679	Sir, no...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0680	There are no elections in the General Assembly, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0681	The Speaker sets them up.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0682	Mr. Young, elections aren't made in the General Assembly. The commission...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0683	Sir, I'm saying that the elections made according to Article 24 are against Article 95 of the Constitution because the Constitution is ahead.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0684	Mr. Young, the presidency is simply calling.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0685	He's calling, but...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0686	The commissions make the elections themselves. If there's going to be an argument, it has to be done there.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0687	Mr. President, in this matter, the Speaker of the House...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0688	Thank you, sir, and your words have been filed.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0689	Mr. President, let's discuss procedure according to Article 63. Let's discuss procedure according to Article 63, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0690	We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0062par0691	That's not gonna happen! (x) Verbal question motions are not read in the General Assembly and are added to the report. 17. - Samsun MP Ahmet İhsan Kalkavan. An oral question motion on whether the İstanbul-Beykoz Directorate has taken a test in some high schools (6/1815) and the answer of National Education Minister Nabi Avcı.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0060par0743	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the presentations section, I would like to call Mr. Nabi Avcı, the Minister of National Education, to answer the oral questions he wants to answer together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Secretary, your time is fifty minutes.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0063par0746	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'll only answer verbal question motions in order to save time without reading the questions. First of all, on behalf of the Justice Department, I'm answering the main question motion of Mr. Kamer Yüçük (6/115): Regarding the Lighthouse investigation, the allegations have been reviewed by the Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council inspectors and have been found to have been covered by some departments in the court's court order, which contradicted the court's ruling. The judicial and administrative process was then initiated by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Prosecutors involved in investigating the investigation have been taken from the investigation of the Lighthouse by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm moving on to questions about my ministry, about our Ministry of National Education. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/1660) and (6/2466), Antalya MP Mr. Arif Bulut (6/3852) and Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4308): A amendment has been made to the amendments to the provisions of Article 5580 of Law Article 5580 to the introduction of the private sector, dated 12/07/2012 and published in Official Gazette 28351, which was published and entered into effect in the official newspaper No. 6353. The regulation amendment, dated 20/3/2012, has been published in the 28239 Official Gazette, which determines the rules for teaching support for private schools and other procedures and bases. As of 3/6/2013, the Special Ankara Industry Chamber Anadolu Technical High School, Special Manisa Organised Industry Regional Anadolu Technical High School, Special Manisa Organised Industry Region Anadolu vocational High School, Special Enka Technical and Industrial vocational High School and Special Circeşeköy Organised Industry Region Anadolu Technical High School paid a total of 3,43,000 Turkish liras. On the other hand, in addition to the power vested in the budget laws of teachers for our ministry's official educational institutions, the full teaching staffs, which have been assigned to our Ministry of Ministers and are allowed to use by the Ministry of Finance, are being distributed to the district's national educational directorates, and the municipal education institutions will be appointed at the level assigned to their province, as well as those assigned to those assigned to these areas. These designated educational institutions are presented to the preferences of teachers who will be assigned to the system during the appointment period, according to the preferences made by the National Ministry of Education teachers in the framework of the appointment and placement regulations, in the electronic environment according to the KPSS rating. It is not possible for our ministry to appoint all potential teachers who have graduated from higher education institutions. Besides, the legislation on the non-responsibility of education and teaching is required by the district or district educational directorates for tuition fees and for the absence of a teaching institute. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3409) and Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4411) MP of Kahramanmarash, I answer the main question motions together: The draft of the Higher Education Law adopted at a meeting of the Higher Education Council on December 26-27, 2012 was sent to the Prime Minister on 28/02/2013. We have physics, chemistry, biology, and IT labs in our schools so that educators in our country can study in a qualified way. The FATHIH Project established interactive boards for classrooms. Any support for them to be able to work is provided by the school managers to the extent possible. In addition, it has been reported that professors at higher education institutions in higher education institutions can receive free foreign language education in the Internet environment, as part of the SECDIL Project, which is developed to enable them to work within the quality of information technology infrastructure, and that they can also be interactively independent education environments with provided virtual classes. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/1214), (6/1650), (6/1774), (6/1795), (6/3400), (6/3460), (6/3688), (6/3690), (6/3692), (6/3711), (6/3715), (6/3718) and (6/3722). In cases when the need for teachers is not met by staffed teachers in our ministry, the terms of the relevant legislation are primarily appointed by the district or district national educational directorates for tuition fees. Information of those assigned for tuition is kept up-to-date in MEBIS records. It is noted that academic units, department heads and consultant professors within Ardahan University are doing their necessary work on students' education, social problems and employment issues, the study of many languages in the university is conducted at both social events and academic levels, as well as in schools where students participate in many sporting and cultural activities, where classes of social and social information meetings, seminars and symposiums are held each year, where high school students are held to determine their academic futures and care for education. In the village of Ardahan central Çamlıçak, where the school's three-story school, which was opened in 2010, continued to teach as a secondary school, where there was no negativity in the same school, where the village's five-room elementary school in 1994, was repaired and the village's Internet connection was also in a position where the school was not considered central, and that students were often ill and unable to attend school, and that there was no report of negativity in the school administration, and that the most remote settlement in the village is about 950 metres away from school, and that the university has not been introduced to the university, and that the university has not been underpinted by the university, and that the university has been underpined by the use of its access to the university, and the university's access to the university, and the university's access to the university, and the university's research, and the university's under which has been used by the university at the same level, and the same time, with the same level, with the university, and the same level, with the university, with the university, and the same level, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the use, with the use, and the use of the university, with the university, and the university, with the university, and the use, with the use of the use of the university, and the university, with the university, and the university, with the university, and the university, and the university, with the use, with the university, and the university, and the same level, and the university, and the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, and the university, with the university, and the university, and the university, and the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the university, with the use of the use, and the same level, with the same level, and the same level, and the university, with the university, with the use, with the same level, and the same level, with the same level, and the university, with the university, with the same level, with the same level, with the university, with the same level, with the same level, with the same level, and with the In the Bayburt province of Bayburt, where there are 59 village elementary schools where they have combined class applications, where the 11 schools with toilets are taken in in in 2012, where the remaining 3 (s) will continue to be taken in 2012, and will be completed as soon as possible; the technical and industrial high school's metal technology field, furniture and interior design area, electrical electronics field, machine technology and IT technologies are being bought for $500,000 Turkish liras in the area; in the first and middle schools in the province, students receive their musical tools with their own means; in the music class where they are selected as an elect course; There are 64 open village schools throughout the province of Silverhane, and 25 of them have been offered to the students' services, replaced by 500,000 Turkish liras in industrial vocational high school, where students have not had a disease due to cleaning in the past years, and students have had no preferences in any of the districts, because there are one or two classes in all village schools, and there is no possibility of getting student toilets into the school; there is no possibility of being taken into school under the UMEM Project; there are 50.000 new instruments in school; there are 570 new instruments in school; there are 570 new instruments in the school year of education; there are no elective music courses in the district; there are 570 years in school; there are no music classes in the area of SODES; there are no schools in the country; there are 570 schools; there are 5. In the city of Ağrı, 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 teaching years, under the Ministry of Development Social Support Programme (SODES), the poor and successful 2.950 secondary education seniors who go to school in the province are free of the school service; for 2012-2013 education years, medieval education students are not allowed to receive a project; for the use of equipment and equipment for equipment and equipment for equipment, there are no new equipment available in schools; for the use of equipment and equipment of materials in schools; for the use of materials and equipment, as well as well as well as resources; for schools and for education, information technology, electrical technology, furniture and interior design technology, and equipment; for climate technology, and equipment; for equipment and equipment, equipment, equipment and equipment are not needed; and equipment are not needed for the use in the use of materials and equipment of the city; and equipment in schools are not needed by the ministry; and equipment in schools; for the use is not needed; for the use by the government and equipment in the use of any means and equipment in schools, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as possible. The heating system for village schools and toilets began in 2011 as of 2011, while in 2011 43 village schools and 2012 52 village schools were completed to import the heating system and toilets, and plans to repair 80 village schools and toilet improvements were made ready for the 2013-2014 school year opening; As for Kars Governor's office: The roof of the Arpaçay village Carcioglu village's primary school, the building of the machine and the building of the ihata wall in the school, the handwashing of the school, the electing of music in the school's school because of the necessary repairs, the application of the school's lobby at the beginning of the school's training year, the equipment of the equipment and the equipment in which the facility in the industry and the equipment found in the interior school, and the facility's equipment for which the facility is being used, and the facility's equipment is being used, and the facility is being used in lined up with the new technology, and the facility's equipment, and the facility, which is being used by the facility's equipment, and the facility, and the facility's in the facility, and the facility's facility, and the facility, which is being used by the facility, and the facility, and the facility's in the facility, and the facility's in the same way. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1328), (6/1330), (6/1585), (6/1575), (6/1576) and (6/1602), I answer the main question proposals: Our Ministry of Education, the electronicisation and monitoring of investment needs of the Ministry of Education. The standard and objective criteria that exist in the system are calculated by the efforts to determine investment needs across Turkey, and the investment points of the cities, boroughs and investment programme are ranked as the investment priorities of the provinces, according to these scores. In light of this data, the proposals of the province of Kahramanmarash were taken into account as the state investment programme of 2013 was prepared. Also, on the subject of Kahramanmarash Governor's office, Turkey's Yeşeliöre Fakilar School needs 2 additional courses in its 2014-2016 investment planning, Türkoğlu district Yeşıyöre Fakilar Elementary School's 3/10/2013 class, with 28 students registered in the district, 337 courses in basic training school year and 982 courses in which 2 additional courses are included in the 2014-2016 investment plan; Turkishoğlu district's Yeşimöre Fakilar Elementary School's 3/10/2013 school's first school, which is also under the rule of education of the school, with which the school's school is under the main school's rule, including the first school's basic school's education, which is under the main school's rule of education, and the main school's basic school's application at the same time. I'm answering Mr. Ali Halaman's 6/1685 main question motion: There are 85 private dorms in the area of Adana Governorate, as of 2012-2013 education school year; 7,119 in private homes under the Central Education General Directorate, 6 in the General Directorate of Religion and 1897 in the General Directorate of vocational and Technical Education, 6 in total 40 official boarding schools and Special Teaching Institutions General Directorate; in 2012-2013 education school year, 7,119 in private dorms, 1897 in private dorms, and 1897 students in private schools, 656 in private schools, and 812 in private schools, and 812 in the final year. I'm answering the main question motion of İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer (6/687): The Tokat Governor's Office states that there is an Ataturk corner in Zile Teacher's House and the Evening Arts School Directorate regarding the issue, that the Ataturk mask was taken care of during renovations at the teacher's home, and that the institution's manager's position was later fixed on the wall because of the renovations. In addition, in the past year, there has been no incidents and circumstances that have been disrespectful to the values of the republic and Ataturk (Ataturk) in the evening art schools and teacher's lounges, which serve as part of our ministry. I answer the main question motion of İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer (6/1706): Our ministry is met with the need for equipment, as well as in the existing fields and branches, in accordance with the teaching programmes applied in schools and institutions of the General Directorate of Professional and Technical Education. Since 2006, the Ministry of Occupational Qualification has been working with the Ministry of the schools and institutions on national and international leveling and professional competence criteria in order to develop the needed human strength of private and public enterprises that govern our country's industry and industry. The industry needs human resources from graduates. In order to avoid the issues mentioned in the question proposal, our schools have vocational training warnings on business security, as well as efforts to develop formats for internal operating programmes, along with legislation, control lists, reduction of risks between the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, personal protective equipment, safety and health signs. I answer Mr. Ihsan Calcutta's main question proposal (6/1815) from a book named "Sier-i Nebİ" (6/1815): The test is based on volunteering among students who study in 13 secondary schools: the written information competition, the information competition of the Beykoz Mayor's office, and the information competition, and the first student who entered the inter-agency competition under the agreement of the Council of the State of Diyamental Affairs, and the first student who received the following questions from the Editor-in-Chief's office, and the central reading of the teacher's order from the 13 Middle School of the school, as well as a result of the study in which information has been studied in the district, has been published by the central school of İstanbul's education, and the first undergraducing of the school. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/1825) answers the main question motion: The Ardahan Governor's office states that no examination of the building regarding earthquake performance analysis has been conducted, and no cracks have been found in the observational examination, and that the building in question has been removed due to electricity and plumbing failures, including the repair programme in 2012. I answer Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/1843): A total of 29,169 elementary schools in 2012 and a total of 7,317 degrees in the school year, and a total of 16,986 secondary schools in 5.358. In Article 9 of Law 222 of Law No. 5/1/1961, under Article 9/6/1973, the application of amendments to Article 14/3/2012 of the National Education Basic Law was based on the implementation of the first and secondary schools. However, by means of means and circumstances, secondary schools can also be established along with elementary schools or upper secondary schools. Under the rule, the physical regulations of elementary schools have been made again, and the number of schools that double teach is being cut down. I answer Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/2648)'s main question motion: The 2005/90 General for the implementation of Law 4207 to prevent the harms of Tobacco and Mamulses, as well as for the implementation of Law 5727, our Ministry of General Staff 2008/16 has been asked to take the necessary measures to be sent to our central and rural organization. In addition, all units of the schools are controlled by the teachers on watch during the course of training in schools. Each year, as part of May 31st World Non-Smoker Day, education activities and various activities are held in schools, kite festivals and so forth with students and parents. In addition, there is awareness training, school boards, posters, posters, writing, and so forth by teachers and students serving in the Yehilay branch. The National Tobacco Control Programme and Action Plan, set up by the Ministry of Health, is effectively contributed to the National Committee for Tobacco Control in order to monitor and improve implementation. I'm answering Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/2649)'s main question motion: On 20/9/2007, our Ministry and the Ministry of Interior Security General Directorate signed the Co-operation Protocol on the Building of Security Environment in Schools Protective and preventive Measures. In addition, our Ministry continues its work in a holistic approach to prevention of violence in educational environments in the direction of the Strategy Action Plan (2006-2011+). The municipal executive boards in each province are held twice a year to ensure the safety of schools during the new training period under the deputy governor's office, while civil defence training for this period is focused on the preparation of stealth-level plans. In this direction, the reduction of class assets in schools, the 7-19 Age Family Education Programme for teachers, students and families, the Mother Support Education Programme for Support Education, the Father Support Education Programme, the activities that enable the individual to recognise himself, the act needed to be activated, the publicization of the Education Programme for schools, and the safety of public violence and discussions by teachers and guidance services, the fact that domestic violence and debates affect children in school hours, and that information about anger control work is required by school administrations to ensure that students' access hours are kept under control, and that students do not have access to school hours. I'm answering Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3620)'s main question motion: The school's Council of Schools, which adopts the procedure for the work and operations of the family's family, published in Article 1739 on the basis of the 16th Article of the National Education Act, to contribute to the implementation of the purposes of educational institutions and to ensure co-operation between the school and the family. It is the responsibility of the school's administration to determine whether the school cafeterias, which are rented by the PTA, are run according to regulations. There are also school cafeterias under the supervision of the school family units, which are once a year controlled by the municipal audit staff. In addition, the canteens and other places found at school have been dominated by the rules that can be supervised by health care, hygiene and food codex, and by the municipal health departments, food, agriculture, and livestock. In order to ensure that students benefit from the service of the canteen in hygienic and secure environments, the troops are careful to ensure that the tenants and the staff they work with are trustworthy people who will fit in with student psychology, educational environment. In addition, in Article 20/6 (Security of Rentals and Processings) of the regulation, a portfolio examination, criminal record and so on is required during the time specified in the legislation of those who are employed. The statement is included. I'm answering the main question motion for Istanbul MP Mr. Celal Dinçer (6/3663): The website of the University of Thrace, which is renovated on the subject of the Supreme Board of Education, states that the changes to the university's existing physical and historical sites are technically restructured, with moving visual applications, with Turkish Bayrak and Ataturk's silhouette present on the website. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/3714) answers the main question motion: There is no demand for opening agricultural vocational upper secondary schools in other counties, particularly the districts of Şanlıurfa Province Suruç and Siverek. If demand comes, the matter will be considered. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt to Deputy Prime Minister Bült Arinc (6/3717): While serving as a public official in other public institutions and institutions, the total number of teachers assigned to our Ministry's educational institutions from 2002 to 2012 is 8.960. In addition, from 2002-2012, 16 personnel were appointed to our ministry's central agency by means of interagency transport to prepare data and control, as officers and servants. By means of interagency transport, the Ministry has been assigned to the central service of our 16 staff members of the country's organization as officers. I answer the main question motion of İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer (6/3815) of Mr. Celal Dinçer (6/3815): With students in financial impropriety, they are obliged to teach free students, not less than three percent of the students who have been educated, not less than three percent of the students who have been educated, in the 5580 Special Education Institutions Act. This rate can be increased by up to ten per cent in the ministry. With the decree, it is assessed according to the provisions found in Section 6 of the Department of Students and Scholarships titled "Students to Read Free or Scholarship." I answer Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/3982)'s main question motion: In relation to the issue, research has been spent in public universities in 2012 at a total of 350m,580,700 Turkish liras. Anthalia MP Mr. Gürkut Acar (6/4147) is responding to the main question motion: By Antalya Governor's Office, on the subject, the Aksu Village Institute was founded on 173,779 square meters in 1938, where there was no reduction in the land; the school of Aksu was held at 39.660 square meters of the treasure, 240 islands, 6 parcels of the move no.667 square feet; the school of Aksu Anadolu Teacher's School of the 1267 square foot; the school of Anatolia is also listed as the sale of the district of Turkey, which has been held on the basis of the district of Turkey. I answer Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/4259)'s main question proposal: The number of teachers per teacher in the school year 2012-2013 was 20 in primary school, 19 in secondary school, 21 in the province of Kahramanmarash, 20 in elementary school. In the 2012-2013 education year, the net schooling rate in secondary school was 70.06 per cent across Turkey and 63.52 per cent in the province of Kahramanmarash.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0792	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to complete your statement. The two congressmen will ask for an explanation, and then you can continue to speak again.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0063par0793	So, should I turn it off now?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0794	You can wait there if you like, but if you'd like, I'll make a promise to two congressmen if you'll sit down.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0063par0795	I'll finish what I have later, won't I?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0796	I'll invite you again, yes.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0063par0797	Okay.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0798	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0799	Thank you. Actually, the answer to my question is wrong. These prosecutors didn't in any way falsify a court order. In Article 1 of the court's decision, the court has made a decision on the seizure of all debtors' assets, and in Article 2 of Article 1 of which we have already decided that their existence should be seized, and there is no need for him to make a decision on the matter, and there is no need for him to make a decision on this matter. He said, "He has closed this place, but the Minister of Justice has purposely removed these prosecutors from duty on the basis of the Deniz Feneri's case and on the grounds of touching those who are in charge of the AKP." As a matter of fact, since these friends, these three prosecutors, have been tried, and there's no tampering with an official document here...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0801	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0803	Now, Mr. President, let's finish our sentence, why are you covering it up?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0804	No, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0805	So, sir, according to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0806	Sir, we'll give you a minute. You know that.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0807	Where do you get a minute?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0808	You can only ask for an explanation, Mr. Young, the Charter is open.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0809	Look, you're limiting our right to talk.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0810	No, we're not limiting your right to speak, sir. We're doing what's right to speak in the charter here.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0811	You're acting very cheerfully. After that, you're suing us for compensation. I mean, does it look good on you? What if that happens? I'm just saying, you're just passing through without listening to me. What if a congressman talks here...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0812	Mr. Young, I've heard you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0813	Look, when a congressman talks, you have to listen.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0814	You may ask for a brief statement after the Minister's statement under the Civil Code. I gave you your time.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0065par0815	You're covering it up now, so you're a means to cover up corruption in the Lighthouse case. I mean, does this suit the Deputy Chairman of the Turkish National Assembly?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0064par0816	Thank you. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0066par0818	Mr. President, thank you. And I want to thank the Minister for his answer. But here's the thing, it looks like a classic: there's 300,000 unappointed teachers, and they're walking around like mines. Is there any way that the government -- every period -- we can't appoint you, we don't have a school like this, you can't go to these education schools? So why doesn't this government say, "We'll cut off the children who are growing up before they go to school." That's what I want to ask you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0067par0821	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Secretary, please. Please answer what Mr. Young and Mr. Halaman want to explain first and then some other questions later.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0824	On behalf of the Justice Department, I have heard Mr. Kamer's statement on the 6/115) main question motion. I have a memo from the Justice Department...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0069par0825	He gave the wrong answer. Where is he? Why don't you come in and answer?
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0826	Regarding the Lighthouse investigation, the allegations have been investigated by prosecutors and judges' and prosecutors' Supreme Council inspectors as to the complaint filed by their suspected attorneys, and it has been determined that some chapters of the court's decision have been covered and that violations of the court's decision have been carried out.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0069par0827	The section that is closed is a sentence that is not allowed to be decided. The Supreme Court said there was no tampering here.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0828	The judicial and administrative process was then initiated by the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Prosecutors involved in investigating the investigation have been taken from the investigation of the Lighthouse by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0069par0829	It's wrong. The Supreme Court acquitted him, said there was no tampering here.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0830	I'm not talking about the Supreme Court phase here. I'm telling you what happened before.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0069par0831	They sued the prosecutors, they went to court, they were acquitted from the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0832	Your MP, Mr. Erdoğan...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0069par0833	But you don't know. You don't have the right to go out and talk about everything. Don't come out and answer us when you don't know.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0834	It's about the teacher's appointment...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0069par0835	You've already put dynamite at the root of national education.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0070par0836	Mr. Secretary, go ahead, please.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0837	Let me try to briefly explain the congressman's question about the appointment of a teacher. You're right, but the following explanations were made not only by me, but by friends who looked before me. Unfortunately, the number of teachers who are currently running for teachers -- any teaching school that raises teachers or teachers -- have graduated from institutions such as the science faculty -- does not meet each other at the National Ministry of Education with the number of our young. There are students who look forward to a number of appointments and see themselves as a candidate for teachers, as well as the schools they graduated from, but even in the ideal conditions of the Ministry of National Education, the number of teachers that all of our classes, all of our classes, have been completed, completed, and at the most 30 students in every classroom, have been single-educated in all of our schools, in which the ideal conditions can be provided, even in today's democratic projections, the number of teachers that the Ministry of Education can employ in all of our majors. In response, the number of young people who have now graduated from these schools is around 250,000. There were projections of 2023 and even later, within the framework of the project -- which had previously been launched during Mr. Nimet Prime to ensure such supply and demand balances -- which was contributed to the project by Ankara University, Middle East Technical University, Gazi University -- which were shared with the YOK. In this framework, bilateral teaching to raise teachers has been shut down, open schools have been closed, but it is not possible to say that I closed the existing educational institutions on such a night, so the planning is being arranged. I'll pick up where I left off now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0071par0841	Yes, go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0842	Mr. President, I'm answering the main question motion of Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/4309) of Mr. Kahramanmarash MP. The total number of appointments can be made to the faculty members outside the university's teaching body on the 2013 Central Management Budget Law (I) table, not exceed 50 per cent of the number of professors who can be made open and transferred through transport. The additional 9,000 permits for higher education institutions have been issued to the research staff for the purpose of raising them under 4,000 NGOs. In addition to the number of transfers made to higher education institutions from the appointment permit, studies continue to improve the autonomy rights of teaching staffs, which are not allowed to be appointed by the higher education board, with the exception of faculty members, in accordance with the 78th Amendment of the Legislature. I'm answering Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's main question proposal (6/4413): The work of establishing a Lifetime Learning Web Portal in Turkey and Europe, which allows easy access to learning and employment opportunities under the Development of Lifetime Learning Directorate of our Ministry, has been completed. Through this portal, all courses, opportunities to learn, open jobs in the ISKUR system, the European Union's Lifetime Learning Opportunities Web Portal, and the professional information system that provides guidance and counselling services in European countries. The European Lifetime Learning Web portal and Euroguidance systems, as well as portals that provide access to education, public services, employment opportunities in Europe, are included in the Lifetime Learning Web portal. In addition, public education centres courses, other open courses and open educational institutions system databases have been uploaded to the web portal via a special interface through the e-print system. In the section of Employment Opportunities, İSKUR open jobs and vocational courses...
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0072par0847	Mr. Secretary, your time is running out, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0848	...has been collaborated with data base systems, and this data has been transferred to the Lifetime Learning Web portal. In teaching programmes, students are targeted to do research, explore, solve problems, share solutions and approaches, and provide information, skill, attitude, and behavior for discussion. In this context, the basic approaches to teaching programs, general goals, achievements... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...intensities, learning approaches, methods and techniques, and their explanations for implementation include research and innovation. If you'll excuse me, let me answer this question.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0073par0853	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0854	On the other hand, two of the eight basic skills that students are trying to acquire in their teaching programmes in the 1-8th grade of elementary schools are research-questioning and entrepreneurship. The concepts of innovation and research are included in the study programmes of secondary education, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and so on, where they can develop the ability to research, produce and use information, and to develop their interest in doing scientific research. In vocational and technical education schools, there are modules such as development of vocational and business management, research and innovation, data collection, entrepreneurial ideas, development and development, problem-solving, market monitoring, opening markets, opening jobs and opening businesses.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0074par0857	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0068par0858	Thank you very much. .
tbmm-2013-10-08sit03spe0074par0860	The question motions have been answered. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with Bill 491 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, Ayþenur Islam, Sakarya MP, who has asked for a personal word on the bill.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0075par0006	Mr. President, dear members of our High Council, I have been promised to talk to you about the Law on the Protection of Culture and Nature Act 2863. On this occasion, I salute you all. We all know that culture is a concept that brings society closer together and many relationships with it because of interest in the different. In our country, which has been home to different civilizations throughout history, immovable cultural assets offer an extremely rich inventory in their field. As a matter of fact, there are more than ten pieces of our country on the World Heritage List of UN Education, Science and Culture Organization UNESCO, as you all know. It's actually very possible to increase these numbers, but I'd rather have a brief conversation as soon as possible. The provision of these rich cultural values is preserved, passed on to future generations, as you know, under the assurance of our Constitution, the 63rd article regulates this issue. As you know, in 1983, the law that we're going to debate now and edit some of its articles came into effect. The law does not only protect culture and nature's assets, it also regulates business and procedures related to maintenance, repair, restoration, restoration, exposure and presentation, but it is also the same law that regulates deterrent principles and penalties to prevent any damage. According to Article 665 of Law 2863, those who purposely cause the destruction, destruction, destruction, or destruction of the imposition of the immovable cultural and natural assets required to be protected are sentenced to various forms of punishment, in violation of conditions, in violation of the conditions set by the protective planning and protection zone councils, in which those who attempt to smuggle it out of the country, attempt to smuggle it, protect it, and use it in various ways. However, the jokes of Article 65 (a) and (b), which we have just counted, have been cancelled by Constitutional Court's decision 11/4/2012, as our friends have just said, and the cancellation will be in effect next week. On the basis of the provisions cited in the Constitutional Court's decision to change the Law on the Protection and Nature Preservation Act, which we are taking on the agenda today, we are making the following: Legal assurances will be provided to ensure that the protection board decisions taken regarding the activities necessary to be maintained in any status area will be submitted to the information of everyone concerned. According to this, the notification of the title of the deed to be declared under Article 7 of the law under the provision of the protection zone, along with the actual information of the move to the property register, as well as the registration of non-performances and conservation areas on the basis of the structure, is envisioned in accordance with Article 7201 and the publication of the State of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture, and the publication of the Ministry of Culture and Culture, as well as the impositions of property and property that cannot be determined by the basis of the single structure. Also, there are changes in Article 8 of the law, which includes provisions related to the protection areas, in line with the 7th article mentioned earlier, and therefore the situation of criminal sanctions being unpredictable in terms of individuality has been resolved. In addition, there are some changes in Article 65. The status sites are added to the cultural assets that need to be protected. The application for building and physical intervention, without permission from the protective zone boards, is still added to the matter, and the scope of the law clause is being updated and expanded a little bit. To put it very briefly, the implementation of the regulations will be broadly established, guaranteeing that the protection zone board decisions be announced to the concerned, thus allowing criminal sanctions to be clear, clear, predictable, and practical. Here's one important thing: as you can imagine, there are a lot of cases that are currently in effect, which are being seen, because of the behavior and attitudes that are contrary to the material. Now, there's going to be a huge gap in the legal field next week because this clause will be lifted. It's very necessary for him, very essential, that I offer you a unanimous acceptance of this important current clause that everyone has unanimously agreed to and contributed to in our General Assembly, and I want to say that it will be extremely important and valuable on behalf of our country, our cultural assets and cultural values. And here's a little note: our dear friend who just had a very nice talk here... it was a beautiful speech, and for that, it was a speech that so far highlighted the importance of cultural assets. He touched on two issues there, saying he was concerned about turning the Saffronbo Central Mosque into a church. I've spoken to my friends, there's no such thing. It was an old church converted into a mosque in the 1950s, where the restoration project was bought as a mosque, approved, restored, and re-opened as a mosque. At the mosque in the fountain of Alaçat, he also said that such a situation exists, and our friend expressed his concern about it. We've learned there's no cause for concern. The mosque is really an old church, but it's been used as a mosque for hundreds of years. However, there was a restoration here, and the old frames appeared during the restoration. These murals are protected. When they pray, they cover themselves with screens. That's all there is to it. There's nothing to worry about. And once again, with the governor's permission, Christian tourists here have organized a ritual. After I've made all this clear, I submit the law to your support, and salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0076par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0077par0020	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0076par0021	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0077par0022	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement now that I've personally investigated two of the issues our dear friend has said. The mosque in Alaçati is not a mosque that has been edited by the appearance of the murals, but unfortunately it has been converted into a church, which is on its left side. So it's closed with a curtain, not a church built with any murals or anything. There's a process that the city has done in its own way. So it's not an event that occurred during a restoration, because I know who he was and I know who he is now, and I even took pictures of him. There's something wrong. Regarding the Central Mosque in Saffranbolu, the church in the vicinity is now being restored, and what's interesting is that a Metropolitan has been assigned to Saffranpoli. Thus, the mosque was planned to be recycled and converted into a church and build a separate new mosque for the Metropolitan to live there. So that's what it is. For your information.
tbmm-2013-10-08sit04spe0078par0026	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Change in the Law to Protect CLUBS AND CONTINUES The fourth joke of Article 7 of Article 2863, dated 1-21/7/1983, has been lifted from effect, adding the following jokes to the article after its fifth joke, and the last joke of the article has been changed as follows. "Current decisions, along with the cadastral information of the registration of the estate, are issued to the office of the deed's office concerning the violation of the deed. Registering decisions on the single-building scale of culture and nature and areas of protection are referred to by the 11/2/1959 Act of Declaration 7201. The registration decisions of non-registered subsidiaries, including sites, natural assets, and those registered on the single structure scale, are published in the Official Gazette and announced on the Ministry's website for a month." "The procedure and the basis of the registration are regulated by regulations." I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The first verse of Article 8 of Law 2-2863 was added to the following sentence and the following joke to follow after the first one. "The protection of the areas of protection is referred to by the Code 7201 to the owners." "The decisions on the registration of non-manageable cultural and natural assets are announced in the Official Gazette and published on the Ministry's website for a month." I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 65 of the Law No. 3 - 2863 has been changed in the following way. "MEDDE 65-Second sites and protected areas of immovable culture and nature are sentenced to two to five years in prison and five thousand days in prison, to destruction, destruction, destruction, or destruction, or harm, without permission from the protection zone boards. Those who give permission for destruction or zoning are sentenced to two to five years in prison and five thousand days in prison. If the verbs mentioned in the first and second jokes were committed to smuggle the presence of culture and nature that needed to be protected abroad, the punishments will be increased onefold. Under the seventh joke of Article 57 of the administrations established in the protection, implementation and audit offices, those who do repairs or repair without permission, and those who do unauthorized and physical intervention, are sentenced to six months to three years in prison or three years in prison." I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 4- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the entire bill to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will resume our talks with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where the 5th ranked Southeast European Defence Minister's Process Framework confirms the Co-ordination Committee Agreement. 5- Southeastern European Defence Ministers' Framework for Co-ordinating Committee Agreement Approved -- Dair Bill and Foreign Commission Report (1/390) [[S. Number 322]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussion of the Southeast European Multinational Peacekeeping Agreement on Fifth Amendment Protocol and Protocol Technical Errors, where we left off to talks by the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked sixth. 6- Southeastern Europe's Fifth Amendment to the Multinational Peacekeeping Force Agreement (/647) [[S. Number: 383]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be found after this, it is Wednesday (October 9th, 2013) that the decision is made to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
