tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, who wants to talk about Turkey's water supply and water management policy. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0002par0014	Thank you. Mr. President, I've been promised off the agenda on Turkey's water supply and water management. I salute your honorable committee. Water is a vital resource with no alternative. In the 21st century, global policies and strategies over water began to increase. This increases the importance of water policy. On March 22nd, World Water Day was celebrated. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs has passed this important day with two seminars and an art exhibition. The world's water content is 1,400 million cubic meters. 25 percent of this is fresh water. The importance of water increases when 90 percent of fresh water sources are in the Arctic and underground. A billion, 400 million people are out of drinking water. 2 billion 600 million people use untreated water. Each year, nearly 6 million people die from diseases caused by lack of access to clean water, such as cholera.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0003par0017	Mr. President, let's take a break, let's get this conversation over with, and then we'll get started.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0004par0018	Just a minute, Mr. Akchay. Congressmans, if we could please be quiet, we'd be more comfortable with Mr. Akçay. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0005par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. By 2025, an estimated two thirds of the world's population would be deprived of clean and drinkable water. Our country's water supply is divided into 25 large basins. Thus, water resources are insufficient in many parts of our country. The annual amount of water per capita is considered to be water shortages between 1,000 and 2,000 cubic metres. Our usable total water potential is 112 billion cubic metres. Our annual consumption of water is 44 billion cubic metres. Turkey's population will reach 100 million per person, and the amount of water available per person will drop to 1,120 cubic metres, so Turkey will be among the scarce countries. The use of our water resources outside the limits and climate changes lead to a decline in water resources. It is also expected to reduce rain by 25 per cent in Turkey in 2025. There have been numerous regulations made by the government concerning water and decrees under the rule of law. On the contrary to these provisions made in water studies, the number of water-related institutions has been increased, and there have been conflicts between their duties. At the moment, the chief, chief engineer and branch manager of the State Waterworks is working with 95 per cent of the staff. In accordance with the relevant law, the State Water Affairs General Directorate has not been tested for more than a decade and has been victimised by the State Waterworks employees, even though it is necessary to take an upgrade and a title change exam. The water management must be recovered from its multi-headed, multi-party lack of coordination. To ensure the rational and effective use of water, the water law must be passed immediately. Dear MPs, the Gediz River is vital to the Aegean region. Ten per cent of agricultural production in Turkey is being carried out in the Gediz basin. The Gediz River, which has died in the land it has passed for centuries, is dying with its flora and fauna, and, unfortunately, the plain that it passes through with it leads to extinction. The Gediz River is far below the water irrigation criteria. The rate of pollution in Gediz is dangerous in terms of food health. Because of pollution, the Gediz River is in danger of the barrenness of thousands of fields that are watered from the Gediz River. Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, during his visit to Manisa on 11 December 2009, said it was incumbent on our necks to save the Gediz. At a meeting in 2010 again, the treatment facilities in the Gediz (Gediz) are at 17 p.m. on 31 December 2012. It'll be completed at 00. At the end of 2012, the Gediz River will be fished, and everyone will take their fishing rods. Those who took their fishing rod and went fishing in Gediz have seen themselves waiting for all kinds of pollution, not for Mr. Eroglu and the fish. All Aegean people, especially the Manisaites, are anxious to see Mr. Eroglu fulfill his promise. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0006par0030	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Kars MP İstiye Birtane, who wants to talk about the problems of the Kars Candy Factory. Here you go, Mr. Birtane.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0007par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Kars Sugar Factory. I salute you all. The Kars Sugar Factory is the only factory in the province that currently produces and employs many families. The efforts of the Kars people to create a livelihood are not supported by the state in any way. The province needs factories and jobs. If employment is not opened, at least the current employment areas must be supported to survive. The Kars Candy Factory is facing closure. It is evident that the closure of the factory will knock out about 500 farmers and thousands of family members who produce beets and have been employed there and will hit the county industry with a huge blow. The factory's biggest problem now is raw material because beet farming in the province is extremely low. There are several reasons for that. Sugar beets are not supported, but the green cards of those identified as doing so are also being taken away from them. Because the government supports more bait plants, farmers avoid beets. Sugar production is not sufficient in Turkey at the moment. It's played with public health with glucose and artificial sweeteners. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Kars Sugar Factory was first put into privatisation, and then this decision was cancelled. At this stage, the factory was abandoned to its own destiny and faced with a close-up. In the city, where agriculture and livestock are the livelihoods, in general, it is the only factory that smokes chimneys in the industrial area. The county feed factory, the milk factory, the leather and shoe factory, the Meat and Fish Foundation, has been shut down one by one. The unemployment rate in the province has increased by 80%. Kars, where animalism is dying, unemployment, poverty, migration, he gets nervous day by day. There is no meat and dairy integrated facility that supports livestock, which is a source of livelihood in the province. All projects that are supposed to increase employment and develop animalism are signs. The government, which must make a special effort to sustain the Kars Candy Factory, is indifferent to the situation. No measures are taken to increase the production of the Kars Sugar Factory. The low production of the sugar factory is due to the quota the government has applied to sugar beets. In this case, the state must support and remove the quota to sustain the factory, which is essential to Kars. In order to increase production, incentive programmes must be prepared. Maze, fertilizer, and seed support should be given, watering costs should be reduced. The factory must be modernized to increase production, and farmers who produce sugar beets in the region must be cleared of their debt to institutions, and they must be allowed to produce sugar beets again. Also, until these arrangements are carried out, the support of beets must be taken from Horasan and Elezkirt to run this year's sugar factory. At the very least, with this method being activated, there will be some relief. Beet sugar is one of the best animal baits ever produced as a by-product. Again, melas is revealed in these factories as a by-product. The closure of the factory means the destruction of these products as well. As sugar production increases, so will melas and breech production. The fact that the production of hay and grass in the province had dropped last year would have contributed to the solution of this problem, but the lack of production could not have been the answer. Kars is among the lowest of the districts. The total export of our province is $875,000. However, the need for sugar from Iran, Georgia, and Nahcivan, who are standing next to us, can be provided through Kars. I urge government officials and all lawmakers to be sensitive about this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute all of you, saying that it is a request from all of the Karsians, to meet with the authorities' SECI-HIS Union.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0008par0047	Thank you, Mr. One. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ezekiel Hilal Kaplan, apportionate to Forest Week. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0009par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. Because of this week's Forest Week, I'd like to talk to you about the situation of our forests today and the condition of the forest villagers who have to survive forest and forest products, but yesterday, because of the information manual that Mr. Veysel Eroglu sent to my side last week after his visit to Kopeli. Mr. Veysel Eroglu thanks him first for his information a week ago, and I wish that his kind behavior would set an example for the other ministers. I'd like to share with you my opinion on the brochure given by the Minister. Although the industrial city is the busiest city in the industry, we are about 1.5 times higher than the Turkish average as forest areas. However, it is unlikely to say the same about the containment fields. Because of its rapid migration, the forest areas, the village areas are being destroyed and quickly opened to the OSBs and industrial areas. The forest area, which is 45 per cent today, unfortunately, was about 50 to 55 per cent in the year 2000-2002, when you came to power. About half of the OSBs, 15 of our organized industrial areas, are completely within the forest area. Mr. President, I have carefully read the brochure sent by the Minister. He's talking about wetlands. I wish there was a Mr. Eroglu here. Speaking of wetlands within the province of Kopeeli, he's talking about the area behind the fairground on the old Lake Road. Either someone gave him the wrong information or Mr. Eroglu will have to see this place when he visits about the wetlands. This is now a area of hotel businesses, city parking spaces and small industrial websites, and there is no area related to the wet area. One of the major forests and habitats of the Kopeleli region is the Ballulkayas Nature Area. Ballıkayalar Nature Park is one of Turkey's most important natural parks in the village of Gebze district, about a mile long. The significance is this: Turkey is one of the rare places in and around the world because of its geomorphological structure. However, this area is now at the point of extinction at Ballulkaya Valley National Park. It's an island surrounded by nine organised industrial sites. Dear lawmakers, there is almost no chance of natural plant and animal habitats, species, living here. In an environment without wildlife or wild habitats, industrialization and the work of this area around the OSBs are dry as a result of excavations. If the national park continues as it is today, it will not be a national park in the near future, and it will now be considered a historical site. Not only do I criticize, but I have a suggestion to Mr. Minister for the survival of the Ballıkayas: that although the region is in the area of the industrial area, it is possible to reduce the negative effects of pollution, pollution, plant and animal species, which the industry has brought under protective custody, but what's important is that the water that gives natural beauty to this valley gets here. A project from the irrigation pond in our naval village is possible to water this place, but for some reason, it has not been implemented, even though it was designed during the previous Ministry of Forestry. Although the region is an industrial region, the deforestation of the forests, although not being done, is also very important for air cleaning in the region. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0010par0063	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to our lawmakers who have entered the system according to the Civil Code of 60. Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0011par0068	Mr. President, through you, it's one of the institutions in Turkey that has no legal status, that is, the building staff, the website officials, the janitors. No living standards, no status, no overtime. In this regard, we need to prepare an absolute legal status for all of our building officials, website workers, and janitors in Turkey, and determine their working conditions and all their rights. It's just that right now, it's on the general terms of the Work Law, but the conditions are very different. I want to deliver this through you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0012par0073	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Theatre Day, where I salute the stage workers. I wish they could play a new game, free, without pressure, in their own colors, in their own languages, in their songs, in their clothes, in their repertoires, where guns don't go off, with a name of peace. Peace and solution are the needs of this country and must be maintained. The words of Brecht are guides, no salvation alone, all or none of us together. So, with that thought, today in PTT, the joint act, the strike, is being carried out by organized unions to claim 173 years of service and labour institutions, to ensure that the privatisation bill is withdrawn. They are, at the same time, the voice of all workers, not subcontractorship, but secure and staffed work. Dear President, because of the attacks on the AKP building and the Ministry of Justice, the raid on the GEEL-İS and LlMAN-İHS unions must be seriously questioned. Once again, opposition institutions are being targeted by the implementation of the police state, labour organisations are being discredited, such as terrorist organizations, we cannot accept them. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0013par0078	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0014par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, twenty-one days earlier, there was a major fire in Ankara's Altındağ Yunus Emre Bazaar, and the site of the 687 tradesmen burned down. Despite the past 21 days, no minister has visited the shop of Yunus Emre, which is 15 minutes from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and has not accepted victims or listened to their problems. The matter has been transferred to municipalities and the governorship. The only thing that's been done for twenty-one days has been 2,000 liras distributed to citizens, per person, through the subsidiary of Altındağ. The tradesman complains of injustice. The 3,000 euros the Ministry of Family and Social Policy plans to pay per capita for the Jonah Emre Bazaar is not yet distributed through red tape. Businesses are burning citizens in need and distress. The government must abandon its nonsensical approach to the Dolphin Emre fire. On the other hand, it is not possible to deliver the funds to those in need, since it does not open a county account number for the money collected in various areas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I urge authorities to open this account immediately and to show their citizens the attention and attention they show to foreign citizens.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0016par0089	Mr. President, there have been incidents at the Payas-44 Malatyaspor game in the Regional Amateur League yesterday. In this final match, the referee has shown poor management, and a referee from Hatay district has been appointed as the fourth referee for such an important match. The field commissioner sided with the case, didn't do his duty. Fans and journalists who went to see the match from Malatya have been stoned and beaten. The police, who should have prevented it, have attacked both Malatian fans and members of the press, even our manager. After the match, the Malatyaspor caravan was held at the stadium for five hours. On the way out, our bus was stoned, one of our fans suffered brain trauma. I would like to be known that 44 Malatyaspor and his followers are not unclaimed. I condemn the federation, the police, and the Ministry authorities for their attitude in these cases. And I want to be known that I'm going to be a stalker.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0017par0094	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to make a few points about the Kars Candy Factory. For the past three years, one of them has been supported by the sugar factory to continue its campaigns in particular; from Erzincan is brought beets, from Horasan. This year, they continue to work on the return of beets from Erzincan, Horasan, Hasankale-Yakhan cantar. Of course, we know that the government is doing everything it can to support employment in a place like Kars. Because our people work for the benefit of 3,000 people. We discuss these issues with our ministers, the government, what can be done on every platform, and we do what is necessary. Of course, the difference is that we don't go up and express ourselves on the platforms and do what we have to do. I specifically wanted to inform you and the people of Kars about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. lion. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has also been involved in the caravan of unfair profit and zoning through construction renovations in municipalities. For the first time, the ministry is 1/1. It interfered with an application plan for building a 000-leader, legalizing the illegal building plugins of a shopping mall. 1/100. For the first time, the Ministry, which has the authority to make high-scale plans such as 000, is 1/1 for the region covering a large shopping centre in Istanbul. He's got a plan for 000. At first, a change of plan was asked by Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality to bring amnesty to the illegal plugins of this mall. When the law changed and entered the area of the Bosphorus presight, the authority passed to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. 1/100. For the first time, the Ministry, which has been authorized to make macroscale plans such as 000, is 1/1 for the area covering the shopping centre. He's got a plan for 000. With a non-profit approach, a major shopping mall is being renovated as a special plan. Even 20 years ago, the complex that has been built above the conditions of environmental construction is now being given additional construction rights by the Ministry. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0020par0104	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0021par0107	Mr. President, thank you. In the fourth year of his death, we celebrate the death of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, who had received the mercy of Hakk, who had political identity, who had spiritual feelings, by asking God to have mercy on him, and that his place should be a paradise. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Artvin has had a mining struggle since 1995. There's a mining incident that's been canceled by the Rize Administration Court in the process since then. This process was approved through the State Department, but when the mining process followed, the Rize Court was retrialed, and the court decided the opposite of what it had already decided. But during this process, the Tripoli District Court has halted running, but the court in Rize has sadly ruled that the environmentalists, all of Artvin, have been waiting for this process. On Saturday, April 6, 2013, at Artvin, 13 o'clock. A rally will be held against the murder of the mine in Artvin, where all Artvins will attend. Turkey's Grand National Assembly invites all Artvinians in Turkey to the rally that day they're going to throw at Artvin, asking them to take care of their sensitivity to Artvin.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. The 21st of March World Forestry Day is celebrated as Forestry Week in our country on March 21st and 28th. I'm celebrating all the forest workers who have worked hard at the point of increasing and protecting our forests. On this occasion, in particular, I express my expectation that the temporary workers of the forest, struggling with their lives in the summer fires, will be recruited, and the forest engineers will quickly be recruited to perform maintenance in order to rehabilitate forests that are still half-needed for care. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, with a new application, is forcing them to transfer by putting up a new regulation for up to 10,000 conservative officers across Turkey. In difficult circumstances, it means that they are forced to resign, or retire, to appoint these forestmen who work in the countryside, in the mountains, seeking their bread. Is that what they're offering? And by privatizing the forests, we will now remove this protection... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is there an effort to clear someone's path? I offer this to your attention.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0026par0123	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0027par0126	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to say that I'm happy to see that there are others who are concerned for Kars other than us, other than the AK PARTY MPs. But, of course, not only is it right to worry, but it's not right to worry the people of the region and raise a political goal from here. We're doing the right thing. We continue our efforts in Kars, especially in the Akyaka region, at the point where we will contribute separately and at different times to each of the government authorities who are conducting this process, as we have done our best to encourage beets by house-to-house visits in the watering area. In particular, we have been trying for years to direct some of the sugar beets that have been planted in nearby areas to campaign in Kars. This effort continues. We also know that Kars is not especially a very serious manufacturer of state institutions, but Kars..... he needs employment. At this point, our efforts continue to...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0026par0128	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0028par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. It's World Theatre Day. I'd like to first celebrate the people who work for the theatre and work for the theatre, despite all the pressure, the stage closures, on behalf of our entire Republican People's Party Group. In addition, the words of the president of the Dianet Affairs who made a statement in İzmir province on Monday upset all the Izmirites and expressed their reaction, but there was not a single statement made by the Izmirian AKP MPs and the ruling authorities, and it was not carried out. We want AKP lawmakers and power to either stand by the words of the President of the Religious Affairs or do what they have to do, express their reaction. In addition, 200 acres of land from the village of Küçükören of Payor, as well as from the village of Cırgidıre of Tire have been rented by the Ministry of Forests, and the fields used by the villagers have been taken away from their hands in the production of thymetics, as well as for the peasants who oppose it...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0029par0136	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0030par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. March 16th was found on the pages of history as a double pain. Seven young people were killed in a fascist attack on revolutionary students who left Istanbul University in 1978. The scene of the White Sea is full of scandals before and after that, when dozens of students have been wounded and turned into a pool of blood. Those revolutionary, patriotic young men, who then rose to the highest levels of the state, deliberately expelled the police chief from school and sent him to his death. It's not just the people responsible for the attack, it's the government's choice to protect the killers, to make them forget the massacre, to black out the evidence. Although the fascist killers are still among us due to the statute of limitations, we haven't forgotten the 16th of March, we won't. We'll have our hands on the killers, and we'll try to get them retrialed. Another pain on March 16 is in Aleppo. This event, one of the most brutal massacres in the history of mankind, has left a mark on our memories that has cost the lives of thousands of young, old people. Thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0031par0143	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0032par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a process that we're sad to watch, a process that is followed by a number of enchanted words, such as the removal of armed terrorists across the border,,,,, solution. There's definitely a point here that I'd like to point out from our President to the government until we reach Parliament. The government's primary duty is to ensure the safety of the citizen's life and property. It is not the duty of the government of the Republic of Turkey to oversee the life and property, the raped terrorists, the main perpetrators, the perpetrators who wage war. It's a fact that they will be investigated tomorrow, regardless of evidence, evidence, information, evidence, evidence, evidence, evidence, or signs, whoever the public or civilian officer is involved with, instead of bringing criminals to justice within their borders. The government is a government of terrorists who have collaborated with the original and feral perpetrators of the PKK (PKK) who is waging war.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0031par0149	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0033par0152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because of World Forestry Week, as a forest high engineer, I'm celebrating this beautiful day for all the forestmen. I ask the Lord God to bless all of our forest elders, who have passed the labor, who have passed the service, who have come to mercy. I pay my respects to the staff of the Forest Service. We know their suffering, and we bring attention to the government. In particular, I would like to bring to the attention of the government that our young graduates are still understaffed. Forestry Day is important, the forest is the most important value of this society. So I also congratulate you on the work of Forestry Day and Week to explain the existence and protection of our forests. And I thank you for your efforts, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0035par0160	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. As a former theater artist, I celebrate World Theatre Day, and I congratulate all my fellow artists on this glorious struggle against such negativity, and once again, we express our presence in the art struggle. Is he planning to end these unjust practices on the customs doors of artists who return home after representing their country with honor, by treating artists' instruments as terrorist instruments, by treating the artist as terrorists, and by treating them as terrorists? We'd be very happy if he could give us an answer sometime. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0036par0164	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0037par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. The government, DHKP-C, is hiding behind the name of a terrorist organization known to experts that has not even left its ashes, is trying to silence and discredit them by applying state terrorism to unions, bars, lawyers, NGOs. Today, with a helicopter raid that wasn't understood why it was used and what it was needed for, we personally observed the state terror of my 30 lawmakers at the Genel-İs Syndicate, which was five stories and 42 doors were broken. The executives of the Genel-HIS Union are not going to be able to silence us; they are not going to send the message to all our patriotic people through us. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0038par0171	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0039par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Ankara Municipality is starting a report card on natural gas in a country with the largest VAT and OTV (VTV) in natural gas in the world. Will natural gas purchase be rationed now? Is it true that our citizens haven't been given more than 350 cubic metres of gas in a month? What will our citizens do with more than 350 cubic metres of natural gas? Is it possible that citizens who don't consume 350 cubic metres of natural gas will be able to sell that right to anyone else? Is it time for a report card on natural gas? And in particular, what will the citizen do on this winter's day, starting with the rumor that there's going to be a raise? And on the road to Bell-Chanakkale... when will this road be finished? By the way, what will happen to our citizens who haven't been paid in ten years? Will they be paid, and how many of our citizens haven't been paid for their property? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0040par0178	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0041par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is World Theatre Day. On World Theatre Day, I celebrate all our theater artists and all our theater employees because I've served as the founder and manager of an amateur theater club at some point in the past, beyond my capacity as Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group. Because of a life dedicated to the theater by our artists, I bow before them with respect. I maintain hope that we can achieve a democracy where our artists can express their art freely, where they're not worried. I congratulate all of our theater artists again in hopes of achieving a policy, a period in which there is no state intervention for the artist, no government assistance for private theatres, is not used as a weapon for private theatres.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0042par0184	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0043par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. The Jordanian king, who couldn't hold his tears in front of the mausoleum of Kemal Ataturk, who gave his nation a home against the imperial forces, must be focused on Prime Minister Erdogan's statement that Egypt's ruling Muslim brothers and sisters are a moderate version. If that's not the case, what kind of procedure has been made about governors who have banned alcohol in eight counties? That ban was against the law, and it was brought to light by a court order. Again, it is another aspect of the process when the King points out that the train on board is the self-contained train of democracy, and that if it lands from this point, it is impossible to see the other stages of democracy. After all, the King signals that America's policies targeting Iranian and energy sources in the region are about to take place step by step. It is also necessary to assess Israel's apology with the pressure of the United States of America. Will a confederal structure -- Iran, Iraq, Syria -- be a factor to determine the limits of Turkey to be rebuilt? I want the answer to that question from the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0044par0191	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0045par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our parliamentary friends are taking a minute's promise from their place and they're asking questions about what they think is important, but the ministers and the government don't seem to care at all, but I would still like to point out that I condemn the conduct of the police who were violent during the ÇED works of the Kayraktepe Dam in Mersinin Mut district. Although the people did not commit any violence, the people were beaten; their heads and bones were broken. The police's job is not to beat the public, but to protect the people. I'd like to remind the Home Secretary, the government officials, even if they seem indifferent.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0044par0196	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Bayraktar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0046par0199	Mr. President, I have been promised to inform the Grand Assembly on the issues expressed by our beloved Istanbul MP, Professor Haluk Eyidoğan Bey. I salute you all. The essence of the statement that we're remodeling the building known as Akmerkek in Istanbul is that there is a note added to the plan to organize the front lines, and there is a note attached to the roof for lighting. But I -- from what I've heard -- I've heard that the Akmeric owners here are doing internal repairs inside. Now I've sent our people to look into it, and I'll take care of them. Again, I'd like to present this: this is the Bosphorus's rearview and impact area, and therefore is the site. The approval of the Site area belongs to the Ministry. This has passed through both the Council of Cultural Beings and the Committee of Natural Beings, has passed through the Metropolitan City City Council, and there is no increase in construction, development for the roof lighting, and I will stop it if there are any violations of plans. I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0047par0203	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0048par0204	Mr. President, is there a zoning plan for such small jobs to be arranged on the outside? 1/1. Do you plan to build an application of 000?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0047par0205	I don't know about that. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0049par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. It's World Theatre Day. And on the occasion of World Theatre Day, we celebrate this day, the day of all the artists, the day of all the work of art. We'd like to point out that it's impossible to talk about freedom in a society where art is not free. Even in our recent history, because he performed in his native language, because he sang in his native language, we experienced painful experiences and painful experiences sent by artists to prisons, exiles, deaths because he said he would make music in his native language. On this occasion today, we would like to emphasize again that this painful page should be a date. We'd like to reiterate our wish for a country where theaters, games are not under pressure, artists are in the free environment, where they're in production. ▪ Free art free society, free society create a free country. (Relaxing our wish, we celebrate the day of all our artist friends.)
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0050par0212	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I will have the motions read separately. In third place, the Parliament's study will be read because it is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, more than a million children between the ages of 6 and 17 are involved in working life. The fact that children have to work early makes child labor one of Turkey's most important social problems. Child labor, which arises for reasons such as poverty, education, immigration, cultural diversity, parents' education levels, and feeds on employers' preference for cheap labour, leads to children's economic abuse. The training of children means more than economic abuse and becomes a human rights problem. For these reasons, in order to determine problems with child labor and measures that need to be taken, we would like to ask that Parliament be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 07/02/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 5) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] 13) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 15) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 22) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] The 32nd Article of the UN Convention on Children's Rights emphasises that "there will be no work for the child's protection against economic exploitation, risk or education, for his health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, and social development." The International Labour Organization's "Property of Prevention of Children's Labour in the Worst Styles" decrees make governments "obligatory on preventing child labor and taking the necessary precautions for that; on providing free basic education and vocational education if it is possible and appropriate for children to be suspended from child labor in the worst forms." Despite the obligations involved in our national legislation and undersigned international contracts, this significant problem is being ignored, except for a few projects conducted under international support and direction by international organisations, which have been seen to be insufficient efforts to prevent child labor. According to TİK's latest research in 2006, 6 per cent of children in the 6-17-year-old group work in an economic business. In other words, there are over 1 million child workers in our working life. Some of these children are employed under conditions that harm their physical, mental, educational, social, emotional, and cultural development, and are not in line with national laws and international standards. Most of these children, who are mostly off-the-booked, are unable to benefit from any social security rights. The main reason that child labor is so widespread in our country is poverty, and it can be shown that you cannot benefit from the rights of education. Like all over the world, the agricultural sector is the largest in child labor in our country. Seasonal farming is concentrated in our Southeast Anatolian region, where poverty is especially high, and impresses the most elementary-school girls. Because of poverty, our children lack the right to education, it transfers poverty from generation to generation, and unresolves it. In addition to over a million child workers who have had to work, more than 50 to 80,000 children have to live and work on the streets. The height of this figure is also a clear indicator of increasing and deepening poverty in our country. In addition to protecting children who are involved in both working life and having to work on the streets and to live, strategies that promote my fight against this problem should be implemented that aims to eliminate the problem completely. Without ignoring that child labor is a fundamental human rights problem, support policies that will approach the problem financially, socially and educationally and produce holistic solutions are needed. In order to increase sensitivity to child labor abuse, the cooperation of ministries, public institutions, NGOs, international organisations, universities and relevant institutions is required. For the reasons mentioned above, we believe it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the problems of preventing child labor and the measures to be taken by our Grand Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, substance use has continued to be a major threat to our country along with the rest of the world. The use of substances is a huge social problem that upsets young people's lives and often results in death. Often, friendly circles, wannabe, curiosity, lack of education, socioeconomics and psychological causes push our young and our children into this swamp. Although the production and sale of such substances has been restricted to almost all countries, even banned, it is very thought - inspiring that they are still very easily accessible. In our country, the age of drug addiction is well known. The decline of the average age is making the family and all the public nervous. In addition, the growing prevalence of substance use poses a danger to people as it does to the peace of society. The use of drugs and recreational substances that are usually used among young people is also becoming common among primary-school children, which requires immediate research on the subject. Because protecting your citizens from any kind of negativity is one of the state's obligations. Therefore, the largest task in dealing with drug use falls to the state's authorities. It is the primary duty of these organs to raise awareness and educate our citizens about the issue that has become a social problem, providing the environment needed for the treatment of addicts. Given the prevalence of the use of addictive substances in our country and the easy to obtain, the fact remains that insufficient measures on the subject have not been taken and the importance of the issue has not been given. It is a fact that, unfortunately, we do not want to accept, but if necessary measures are not taken, there will be irreversible consequences, such as the growth of unhealthy generations. Therefore, this matter, which concerns society and future generations, must be carefully discussed, creating reliable environments for future generations. Therefore, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons for the increasing use of substances among young people and children, and the reasons for the decline of the age of use, and the measures that should be taken against it, and the lack of the state's challenges in the treatment of both the fight and the addicts. [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] 9) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 24) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104, 105 of our Articles 104, and 105, in order to determine the necessary measures for the mining site of Artvin-Caucasor-Cerattepe, and to be immediately obtained. [[Artvin]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 9) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Adana]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Denizli]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] (x) (10/558) The original Parliamentary Research Investigation is included in the full text of the Charter. 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 20) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] After 15 years of faithful and decisive struggle by the people of Artvin, the mining operation, which included the position of Cerattepe, which is located just above our province, and the two adjacent mountain Genyas, was completed as a whole on 24/10/2008. The Rize Administration Court's 2007/52 main and 2008/709 verdicts and the same court's 2007/53 main and 2008/708 verdicts were decided to call off business and mining licenses by considering possible damage to natural old forests, water resources, living life. This decision was Artvin's salvation, irreparable damage appreciated by the court. However, on 24 June 2010, the new Mining Law was announced by Minister Taner Yildiz on March 2011, when the implementation of the Appal Law on 6 November 2010 was first registered with the tender of 1.3 mining fields throughout our country. There are also dozens of areas known to be tendered in Artvin and districts. The information that one of them is a large area in the city, including the 4252 mineral license number Cerattepe (250 hectares), the other 4944 mining mountain and the Caucasor Tourism Centre, and a significant portion of the city's drinking water resources (4,156.25 hectares) that has been revoked by all the Artvins (4252 hectares). Both areas are the area where business licenses have been revoked by a court order. Despite the court's ruling, the retrial of these two licenses has increased our concerns. Although the mining licenses for these areas have been revoked by court order, and the retrial of these areas, although these decisions have been passed by the Supreme Court, will, in particular, undermine the faith of the people of Artvin and all citizens in general in the rule of law and rule of law. In particular, the license areas are landslide areas, the landslide continues, and the growing cracks still appear to be reaching vital dangers. Again, during the trial, the results of the shift caused by heavy metal-laden water in the gallery opened by the company who wanted to mine this area have just begun to emerge. All sources of drinking water in the province of Artvin are in these two licenses, and a mining operation will drain or contaminate all the water supply of our province. In light of the above, Artvin is located above the city center, 4252 and 4944. We believe that the area covered by the mineral license fields, the environmental impacts of mining activity in these areas, the determination of court decisions in these areas and the previous research commission in these areas, how the people living in the city and downtown will be affected by it, whether or not it will contribute to our country's economy, compared to its non-terrestrial wealth, is a requirement for our country to be seen and identified by a parliamentary research commission that will benefit the entire community over the centuries, rather than by the special interests of the community, and the right to live in a healthy environment. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (27/03/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 13 February 2012, it was given by Mud MP Demir Çelik and his friends (571 rows no. lu) has been proposed to hold talks with the General Assembly on Wednesday 27/03/2013 in order to investigate the Silicosis disease. In his favor, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0051par0407	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal to take the necessary precautions against silicone disease and investigate the victimology of silicon patients. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, first of all, we need to talk a little bit about silicone disease. As a result of environmental and professional exposure, we're talking about a case of a dramatic picture of lung failure, respiratory failure and heart failure, where the lungs are rapidly going to collapse due to exposure to silicon crystals. There are three forms of the disease; there are forms of what we call the chronic form, the form of the axes, and the aacut form. This form, called the aacute form, is unfortunately progressing in a course that quickly leads to death as a result of intense dust exposure, ending the patient's entire life. This siliconis disease is most common to the denim-struck workers. Again, it's seen in miners, tunnel diggers, glass and ceramics. There are different forms of occupational work as a professional group, but these are the denim roasting workers in which acute fulminan deadly siliconisis is found. What we call cot stoning, as we call it, is a picture of young patients rapidly going into bankruptcy in what we call an old-timey workshop, where the necessary measures are not taken, where the necessary engineering measures are not taken. Here, until today, of course, we can safely say that there are not enough inspections. In fact, the disease is also new in literature. Since 2004, the world is known for disease, and as of 2005, cases are starting to appear in our country, and as of today, the number of patients that have been identified from 2005 to today is more than 600, but we know that the real number is between 2,000 and 5,000. Over 60 patients -- most of them are young individuals between the ages of 20 and 30 -- have been known to have lost their lives because of this disease. Silicosis has no definite cure, so more protection measures are important. This deadly form of protection, the banning of the denim stoning business, should be the primary measure, which, in fact, has been banned in our country since 2009. However, we still think there's a lack of supervision about this, since we've been looking at displays of bleached, worn-out jeans. Dear lawmakers, workers in these denim workshops are employed at least 14 hours a day without insurance, without social security. Since this particular sand is a valuable sand, let alone an expensive sand, there are unconscious practices in these workshops about the fact that windows are closed tightly and this sand is not wasted. As a result of these unconscious practices, young individuals, 20-30 years old, are unfortunately entering into a quick death adventure, a death journey, in which our young citizens have begun to support their own families in order to feed their own. There is a silicone patient in the village of Toklular, in the village of Toklular, in almost every house in the village of Weld. Four days ago, we lost Ramadan Aslan, 30, because of this siliconic disease again. I was in Karliova County a week ago. In Karliova County, the relatives of these silicon patients, their families, came to us again, and they told us again that the Council had to do something to resolve the victimhood that had been inflicted on this matter, and we want to bring this cry to us by bringing this cry here now, to emphasize again that it is important that the House do something about it. Actually, there's a law proposal that we made in February. If this bill had been taken into consideration by the Health Commission, if it had been brought to the General Board of Health from the Health Commission, perhaps we would have resolved the victims of the death of many patients who died, lost their lives, before they gave their last breath, and after death, we would have resolved the victims of their children and their families. Again, there's the Republican People's Party's law proposal on this issue. The Health Commission has these proposals. A very important task lies ahead of us at the point where these should be brought to the attention as soon as possible. In fact, the government also knows the current victims of these siliconis patients. During the previous government period, a legal change is being made to address the problems of these silicon patients. A temporary joke is added to Article 67 (67) and Article 2022 of Law at the time, which is limited to three months, which is a legal arrangement that allows silicon patients to benefit from social security rights during the EC PARTI administration period, which, unfortunately, is being carried out during the period of the previous government, but is being limited by three months, and because of the degree of ranking and the degree of professional labour force loss. Because in the period set between 25 February and 24 May 2011, many silicon patients do not know about this law. Thus, a process of application is not developing, or many of the patients who have been informed can't benefit from this legislation because they are running for medical reports or because the medical reports they received from hospitals do not have adequate medical evaluations. So the law proposal that we're offering is to remove this three-month period, lower the criteria for the loss of the occupational labour force of silicon patients, move to a 10% limit, retire those who have lost 40 per cent of their labor force. Again, silicon patients are based on an arrangement that will provide social security and allowances for their children who have been miserable if they have lost their lives during that time. Silicosis is considered a occupational disease all over the world. If we'd taken this siliconic disease as a occupational disease with the proposal of the law, and arranged the victims of the patients, the victims, the victims of the children, the families, perhaps today we wouldn't need to discuss this group's proposal at the General Assembly. But since there has been no regulation so far, right now, we're dealing with the drama of young patients in their 20s and 30s who can't move, who can't breathe, who can't breathe, who can't stay an oxygen source for a minute, who can't stay away from the oxygen conductor. Therefore, I would like to address both the government's competent ministers, Mr Faruk Çelik, and our Minister of Health, our Minister of Family and Social Policy. Each three ministries are required to conduct a joint, joint work quickly and quickly to address the victims of these siliconic patients. If not enough work has been done so far, there is an important need for the Parliament to be studied by creating a research commission to identify both these unsupervised workshops that have led to silicone disease, as well as by identifying those responsible who led these workers to their deaths, and by detecting the victims of these workers, the proposals for solutions are quickly on the agenda in parliament. Therefore, we expect support from all political parties, especially the AK PARTY group. This commission will take place from Aydın (Enguldak) to Zonguldak/a, from Bingley to Kars. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... We believe that if he is in the effort to address the sufferings of these siliconic patients, which are now clawing at death, he has fulfilled a very important, very sacred mission. Therefore, we expect all of you to support our group proposal. I'd like to thank you all with the respect of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0052par0425	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. İstanbul MP Mehmet Domac against him. Here you go, Mr. Domach.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0053par0429	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's World Theatre Day. I celebrate the Day of Theatres of theater workers, stage-dust swallowers, precious artists hanging from the curtains of their lines. Congressmans, silicone disease is a very important, deadly disease. It is impossible to disagree with the suggestions of my colleague and Mr. Baluken, but I cannot agree with them because of the intensity of the Assembly and because of the work done in our ministry. I would like to point out that occupational health and occupational safety are an important issue for our country, and we all worked together on it, and in the past year, we have uncovered an important law on occupational health and occupational safety and occupational illness, and we have taken important steps to ensure that it can be implemented in Turkey. So far, only seven of the 36 regulations for occupational health and occupational safety have been published, and the rest are being studied. So in our country, we have a duty to observe the immediate fulfillment of the laws that we've come together on issues that concern the general public and also concern our government and all of us. As in modern countries, we passed this law to protect health, to uncover a healthy working environment, to train employees, to be conscious of employers, and to take the necessary precautions. Thus, in Law 6331, we defined business accidents and occupational disorders and defined how to take the necessary measures to reduce them, what burdens to the employer, what obligations to the workplace physician, and the powers and responsibilities of occupational safety experts. With the Law on Health and Safety 6331, all employees had the right to benefit from occupational physicians and occupational safety professionals, including public employees, regardless of the number limit and the type of workplace. We had the obligation to inform occupational physicians and occupational safety specialists in writing of the measures needed to be taken at work to the employer and to report to the ministry's authorities in case those who pose a life-threatening threat to the issues reported by the employer were not carried out by the employer. We arranged as a legal decree that occupational physicians and occupational safety professionals are responsible for the employer because of their negligence in running occupational health and safety services. Respected lawmakers, one of the main obstacles to fighting business accidents and occupational illness was the lack of sufficient registration and lack of statistical information. That's what Mr. Baluken said here. So we don't know how many people have been exposed to silicone disease; we don't know how many people are dealing with siliconis today, but we've established a law that allows them to be recorded and kept their statistics. We had brought the employer, business accidents, and occupational illness, to report on business accidents on the basis of a single notification. We had an obligation to report cases of occupational accidents and occupational illness to healthcare agencies. We have given occupational diagnosis to workplace physicians or health care servers and the opportunity to be transferred to health care servers authorized by the Social Security Agency. With this arrangement, we have the authority to pre-diagnosed occupational disease for occupational health care servers with a business physician who has the first opportunity to examine at work. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a pulmonary disease and a terminal lung disease, the main subject of the BDP group proposal. In order for this to be preventable, you don't have to face the constructive factors of silicone disease; it's the most important element. For this reason, especially for the prevention of these denim stonings, our Ministry of Health issued a generalization on the prevention of silicone disease on March 27, 2009; for this reason, silica powder and quartz crystal banned silica crystals from using quartz dust. Thus, it is no longer possible to use them to stone jeans in Turkey, and those who use them do illegal work. The punishment of those who commit illegal acts is clearly in Turkey, about almost everything. And there was also an arrangement for silicone disease because it was really moved into the agenda, and it was known to everyone, because it became visible, and in Parliament, Mr. Baluken said that, too, this arrangement. An arrangement was made, adding the 67th article to Law 6111, and being considered as part of social security, the silicosis patients who were not covered by social security were brought to them as well, with a monthly commitment to their relatives in the event of their deaths. Thus, according to the condition of the silicosis disease in the field, it was listed: between 15 per cent and 34 per cent, 7,000 indicators for those who lost their power, 8,000 indicators for those who lost between 35 and 54, and 9,000 indicators for those who lost more than 55, and that coefficient was brought to about 450, 550 and 700 Turkish dollars. In addition, the condition for paying the children, their heirs, to the silicon patients who passed away while they were on a monthly basis was organised in Parliament. Yes, Mr. Baluken said here that during this arrangement, he was given a three-month period. During this three month period, reports will be received and applied to the social security agency, and according to it, they will be paid if they enter within these criteria. I, for one, agree, that if there are those who have passed it, and there are those who have missed it, I think the statute may be extended by revisiting it. Why? What was our purpose when we passed this law? It was to remove the victim's victim's victim to some extent. I think we can make it happen if we can't make it go away enough. I think we can share that with our Minister of Labor and Social Security. If there's any chance of a change in their transference... so we can do it together, no problem. I mean, our goal today is to solve problems, not beat up the laces. I think we'd be happy if we could help the silicon patients, the relatives, solve their problems. I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0054par0441	Thank you, Mr. Domaç. In his favor, Mersin MP Aytug Horseman. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0055par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge from the BDP Group that all workers under the threat of silicosis have been identified, and that the victims of the denim-bolting work have been identified, and that a parliamentary investigation has been launched for immediate resolving. I salute the lawmakers, who don't exploit their sweats and not for political purposes, but for real workers' friends. Dear friends, the fact that such a matter has to be moved to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has first caused me to be ashamed as a human being, then as a physician, and I wonder, I agree with the orator who just spoke for the AKP. Yes, there are such problems, the workers are victims; it would be good if this matter was investigated. How will they vote no after they've said no? We'll all see this paradox together. First you'll say, "Yes, the workers are a lot of victims." Then you'll say, "No, we don't have to discuss it." You'll say, "It's really interesting, and it makes you look ridiculous." And your motive is simple, the House is busy! Congress isn't busy, you guys, Congress isn't busy, you're just running away from it. People are dying all over Turkey, and you're busy in the media, so you avoid discussing these people's problems. Look, siliconis is a deadly disease. There's no cure for silicon. With only a lung transplant, these people can survive. Is it possible to avoid this disease? Yeah. Look, physicians deal with deadly diseases a lot, but they ask a much more important question: is it possible to avoid this disease? If the answer is yes, then what should be done to avoid it? The state investigates it. The way to do that is to form such a research commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. You're not now investigating the problems of victims of a terminal, incurable, yet vulnerable disease. Look, I'm putting this on the record, and I'm gonna say it everywhere. How do I know you won't investigate? For in a moment, your hands will be lifted up saying no, and you will not discuss the situation of many victims. So, why do you have the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? If the problem isn't a solution, what good is it going to do, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? A place where only the Prime Minister's laws pass? Look, dear friends, you're all congressmen, and you have to do what the nation has given you. When you're the Prime Minister's deputy and you're the deputy of the nation, this Parliament will be where it truly belongs. Look, the Constitution that you don't like, the Constitution that you don't like, there's a reference to it in two places, it's a reference to working life. Article 49 of the Constitution states: "Work is everyone's rights and homework. " It says that it is both right and homework. Meanwhile, he's uploading a paper to the government. It says: "The state takes the necessary measures to raise the life level of the workers, to protect the workers and support the work in order to improve their working life. " Well, now that you've come out of this chair as MP, you have sworn allegiance to the Constitution. Now, you avoid doing this assignment that the Constitution has imposed on you. The matter goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on This problem is not just a simple health issue; this problem is the problem of subcontractorship, this problem of unsecured work, this problem of sweat exploitation. Well, that's the solution to this problem. What are we going to stand for when we're looking for this solution? We will endure the Constitution. Look, what does Article 56 of the Constitution say? It says in both articles that the state allows everyone to live their lives in body and mental health. We put it in the Constitution, and the people approved it, and they gave it to you. Now you will rise up and say, "No, I don't care that my people live in body and mental health. You will raise your fingers in a moment. Then I'll see how you don't investigate the problems of these people, these poor people. Is this really the case in Turkey, despite the fact that our constitution cares so much for the workers and the workers of our Constitution? No, I'm afraid that's not the case. If you look at the application, it is because of AKP's laws and their insensitiveness that always reduces laborers to death, labor killings, occupational illness, and occupational injury. If you'd been a little more sensitive, as the AKP member had just said, sir, here, we've taken out the Law on Business and Occupational Health. Why did you wait ten years? You waited 11 years, and then you passed that law. And now you're saying... what are the victims going to do in ten years? However, the law you have passed is far from fulfilling the expectations of working life right now. So, why is this happening? What do you let the workers die for? For one thing, it's a three-letter word, and it's called a black word, and that's the only thing you understand. Of course, it's not the law that's the problem here, it's your understanding. The problem is not here in the Constitution, the Constitution has given you homework, the law has given you homework, but it's not possible for you to understand that because your understanding is focused solely on profit. Look, I know there are a few friends of yours who like numbers, and I'll give them a few digits, in terms of business accidents, occupational illness, in Europe, in the world, and you're about to say, "No, there's no need to investigate these problems." Look, from 2002 to 2011, 735,803 workplace accidents were reported in Turkey. 735,000 work accidents reported and more than 10,000 workers are dying. See, that makes us an unfortunate leader in Europe. Since you want to be a leader in everything, you really are a leader in this. You're really the leader of this country, and we can't investigate because of you, brother, why are these workers dying? I hope you sleep well tonight. Look, 62 people died in January of 2012 alone, 42 in February, 50 in March, 60 people die on average every month. Every day, two people die from these occupational diseases and business accidents, and a congressman comes along and says: "Let's look into this, brother, let's find the solution together." You say, "No." Actually, dear friends, he dies more than two people a day. You know why? Because these are occupational diseases, not constraints. I mean, people who died in their lifetimes are not on the record. I mean, you're willing to let two people die a day, which is actually a lot more than two things in Turkey. Look, I'm also a volunteer member of the district of Karliova, and I've been to the district of Karliova. There are a lot of people in Karliova county suffering from silicone disease. And who will take care of these people's troubles? These people, they went in time, they stoned the jeans, and they worked unsecuredly to bring bread to their children. Now, she goes to the doctor, and she says, "I'm sick." The doctor says, "Yes, you have siliconic disease." He's coming to the state, he's getting over 60 percent of the reports, he's terminally ill, but the AKP says: "No, I'm not retiring you on disability." Why? Because you don't have occupational illness on record. Well, brother, it's bigger than your apology; you let these people work off the record, and these people want to feed their children off the record, and then you say, "You're not on the record, and I'm not retiring you." Guys, if this is a solution, we have to solve these people's problems here. But I can't believe you guys really understand. We are talking of Bingol, and there is no water in the city for ten days; and you have been unable to bring water there, and they have dried up from thirst for ten days. Then you get up, you talk about health, you talk about solutions. And you're blocking the solution because in your understanding, there's no understanding of a social state, and in your understanding, the government is just profiting. Today, I feel that people who will say no to this motion will not sleep well at night, they will have nightmares, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0056par0463	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Against him, Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0467	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. The Peace and Democracy Party has had a demand for a research commission to determine the problems of all the workers under treatment. This, I believe, was a motion for research that was submitted to the Speaker of Parliament on February 13, 2012. After that, our House passed laws on occupational hazards and occupational illness. Within those laws, arrangements have been made for their treatments, the maintenance of their victims spouses and children, pay-per-view, until they are retired if they are not at a social security institution. If there's anything missing in this area, of course, our government, our party, will see and repair this lack. The speaker who spoke on behalf of CHP a moment ago, as usual, did not take off from community engineering to our dreams, nor will you sleep in your sleep tonight. Like whom are you, the Prime Minister's MP? We are the deputy of the nation, Mr Prime Minister is the deputy of the nation, MP and Prime Minister of the nation. (EC PARTY Applause) We're a team that's shown and proved it by increasing our vote in every election we've ever been in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0058par0470	That's not an answer, that's not an answer.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0471	Of course, we're not saying there are some problems in our country.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0059par0472	You've put the legislature under the table, poor thing!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0473	We're not saying there's no one infected with these diseases. There's a government that's determined at its point of resolution, that's focused on solving no problems without sweeping them under the carpet, wherever there's a problem. But I say, look in the mirror who stands in the way of the solution in Turkey, and you can see yourself. Since the legal arrangements for this group's proposal have passed through our Parliament, if there are some administrative procedures that can be done and can be done, such a motion is made by our government... that we will now discuss the Customs Law on our agenda today. There's some serious expectations there, too, at the point of these wives' bail. We want to answer them from here as soon as possible, solve these problems.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0060par0475	It's more important than human life!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0476	In front of the solution, please...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0061par0477	Occupational hazards don't make money!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0478	AK PARTY never settles for anyone's death.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0062par0479	Well, look into it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0480	We are a political power in the sense of keeping a man alive so that the state can live. Therefore, no one will consent to any of the deaths. If we're MPs, we all have to respect people, respect each other's opinion, if we all live under this roof.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0062par0481	If you're a boy, say yes.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0057par0482	We're not supposed to use doodling language, hurtful language. If we can use our language more delicately, if we can find an easier solution to the problems... In that sense, you've always expressed problems here. You bring problems, acceptance, always detection, what's the solution? If you suggest something at the point of the solution, maybe there's something here that we can take advantage of. You always talk about problems, and when it comes to solutions, nothing comes out of you. The solution is in the EC PARTY. That's what our nation sees, and it raises our votes in every election. Whether you crack or explode, the AK PARTY will still be in power. We say we'll walk with our nation hand in hand with the vision of 2023. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0063par0486	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0064par0487	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit01spe0063par0488	I submit the Peace and Democracy Group proposal to your votes: those who agree... I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0063par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal, given under Article 19 of the Interior Charter, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. Now, the National Party of Action Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 27,03,2013 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political parties, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. With 26 March 2013 dates and 10935 points, I propose that our parliamentary research motion for the meeting be read on Wednesday 27,03,2013 (now) in the General Assembly in order to assess and determine the failures in the implementations of the Law on the Lands of Agriculture of Treasures and to assess the measures needed to be taken. In favour of the proposal, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0065par0015	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, I have made a pledge to investigate the parliamentary research motion for the implementations of the Law on the Development of Forest Villagers and the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we all know that as a group of three parties for the law known as 2/B, as part of our election statements, we have a common will at the point of resolving the bleeding wound, 2/B, but while we're putting this joint will, unfortunately, based on the majority of the Justice and Development Party, by accepting the majority of the finger, we have said that I stole this law with a sense of whistle that I stole, despite all our criticisms and wishes, despite all our criticism in this parliament. And as we pulled it out, we saw that his setbacks came to the House several times, not less than a month later, not two months later, when they were self-aware. We all know that on April 26th, the law, which was approved and enforced, was forced to re-organise in September less than five months later. It was not satisfied, but again, in March 2013, it became a subject of a new arrangement with a proposal from the ruling party. This indicates that the ruling party did not reveal what he understood from 2/B. And when he couldn't, he came to the agenda of this House with three or four changes in ten months. So, we're here, and these setbacks are over? It's not over. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is now necessary to understand the state of our people who are dealing with this issue. First of all, there's been a lot of traffic over the phone from Hatay-Krekhan, and they specifically asked us to point out that after the flood in the Amik Plain in 2011, the farmers' losses were still three years old, and the band president's farmer was devastated. Again, look, our farmers are really miserable. Our farmers' basic inputs, diesel and fertilizer, have increased by 400 percent in your time of power. In contrast, I have a 50 per cent plus in wheat, the same corn, the same cotton, in 2002, when you criticize, our farmer buys one litre of diesel by selling one litre of wheat, and now he can't buy one litre of diesel by selling seven kilos of wheat. This is the same in corn, the same in cotton, the same in cherries... who bought 4 litres of diesel selling 1 kilogram of cherries in 2002, and is now unable to buy 1 litre of diesel by selling 1 kilogram of cherries. There's a painting that we see when we travel, that our farmers are either crushed or drowned under bank loans, or they fell into the hands of loan sharks. Everywhere we travel, we see that our peasants, our farmers, starting with Adana, are in trouble all the way to Mersin, Antalya, Mugla, İzmir, Istanbul. Now, why do we need such a research proposal? Look, we're not saying this. I'm reading a statement from your Antalya county president, the mayor of Antalya, the president of the AKP, on the stand, you're right about the citizen's rebellion, but we didn't do it. Who did it? That's what the busybody, the king's more royal bureaucrats, did. He blames it on public officials and bureaucrats. Now, can there be such an understanding? So there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's 2/B of you that bleeds in Antalya, where the mayor is a crime, there's a mistake, but as a simple matter of fact, the government is all over the place, but in bookkeeping, the property managers don't have a say in this kind of understanding. Again, look, in Antalya Aksu district, there's a place where TEDAS is publicized, the court is publicizing, the government money is set up, it's estimated at $4,000, but we're telling the citizens that when you take this place, you're going to get your turn for 40,000, 50,000, 60 grand, 80 grand. I'd like to say this: look, even where there's a closed greenhouse like Antalya Aksu, there's seven thousand to eight thousand liras out of five or six acres, as well as when you plant grain in a place like five or six acres, that's 1,000 lira, 1,500 lira. Now, there's 80 thousand liras on the acre here, eight acres, 50 percent off, 40 grand off. How much is an eight-acre? 320 thousand liras. Is there any chance that this peasant, this farmer, who lives in Antalya, who lives in Adana, who lives in Zagla, can get this? No. They're all saying: "We've already turned into magicians." We're either drowning under bank loans to settle the account of a year ago, or we're in the hands of loan sharks. Look, valuable lawmakers, these need to be investigated by Congress. The cries are rising from all over Turkey. Come and listen to the cries and cries of these peasants. If you look at them with the occupying logic, you're wrong. In the 1960 study, 300,000 hectares of land were moved out of the forest, and the revolutionary government of that time called off these places. These aren't invaders, these are our peasants, our citizens, our farmers, who have been planting and mowing these lands for a hundred years. They're not gonna get these places when they're going through this, and who's gonna get them? Now, where I say these are, there are traders. He knows he can't take it. Why don't we give you the money, sign a note, deposit the money, then hand it over to us? We won't be the voice of this peasant, where's your poor, strange sense of guru? I mean, who's going to hear the sound of this peasant, the poor poor, the strange guru, in an environment where your own followers are rich with salt? In Istanbul they say that we came to Istanbul in the 1960s, in the 70s, in the 80s. We've already bought these places with money from land traders, squatters. Now, how are you going to sell the place we bought in Istanbul, in Umraniye, sir, in Sergeant, in Sultanbeyli, in Beykoz, again at a high price? Now, the plot speculators go around them, and they say: "Give us, and we will deposit these coins, and we will give you as much commission as this. " Doesn't that cry ever come to you? Doesn't this peasant, this farmer's cries ever come to you? So, what's the point of being a legislator here if we're not going to translate into the voice of this peasant, this farmer, this poor, this poor, this poor, what we call the beat-up guru? But when capital groups are the sound of billions of dollars, when there's a law about them, we skip the whole community, here, we make all these laws. We claim that this is not our voice, this is the voice of the forest peasant, this is the voice of the farmer, this is the voice of the poor, this is the voice of the guru. What's the Clave for? Let's investigate, let's investigate, let's investigate, and if there's anything wrong with what we say, then say: "You are out, you have said these things, but we have studied them as Parliaments." Come here, show this to us in front of us, and we'll apologize to this nation. But I went about Adana, and Mersin, and Antalya, and Mughlah. Our people here are bound by their hard work, by their sweats, by this state, by its existence, by its unity. We said, "Tax." They paid their taxes. You will go to the army. We said, "They went to the army." We said, "You will do this." They did this. Now, they're rioting, they're raising their voices: speak this voice. We can't take these places, this land is our honor. Where we come from, honor is important, the land is important. Won't this House carry the responsibility for the social difficulties that will arise here tomorrow, dear friends? We're not going to solve this, we're not going to investigate this, but what are we going to investigate? As Congress, we're not going to be able to fix this, but who are we going to care about? For eighty years, we say to our farmers from their ancestors, from their grandfathers, that they should leave these places; they shall come to the land of the rich, the millions, the billionaires; they shall take these places in Adana; they shall take them in Antalya; they shall take these places at the foot of the Toros. If you want peace, you have to make peace with this peasant. You have to make peace with this farmer, this farmer, this farmer, this worker, this tradesman, with these people, until we search for peace with the slaughter of 40,000 of our people, 100,000 of our people, until we seek peace with the people who cut our eyes out and destroyed our ears. So I want you to come and support this motion, our research, come... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...let's look into them together, and if we're wrong, come and say so. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0066par0030	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0031	Mr. President, our deputy has made a promise that will cause misunderstandings regarding my own constituency, Kurıkhan district. I want a promise to fix it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0066par0032	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0033	▪ He said that our farmers had been unable to receive their money for three years because of the flood. It's about him, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0068par0034	Mr. Mehmet, the Brekhans called, I don't know anything. Send a message to the Broken Ones.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0035	It's about something...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0069par0036	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0040	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers have just made a statement in the district of Hatay, my constituency district, that our farmers who were damaged by the flood in 2011 were unable to receive any money from the state. Of course, Hatay, three years ago, there was a serious flood. Of course, with a 2006 law, with TARSIM, after 2006, we didn't have the luxury of paying our farmers for a natural disaster. However, because of this flood, in the region, according to the earlier Afet Law, we were able to determine the damage done by our farmers on the basis of that law, and here we resorted to delaying our farmers' debt to the Agriculture Bank and their agricultural loan co-ops, and they were postponed. As for Hatay, our water-damaged farmers... it's the same flood this year... but I'd like to inform all the MPs here that we have no other means but TARSIM.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0070par0043	Mr. Mehmet, the Burıkhans are making a phone call, and they say, "Don't come to us from the parliament, let's remind them whether you promised or not."
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0044	Not just any promise, just the agricultural loans...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0070par0045	They're waiting for you in Bırıkhan.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0046	We had to make such a determination about his delay. If we hadn't made that determination, we wouldn't have the luxury of postponing the farm loans and the Agriculture Bank. That's because we have to abide by the law on TARSIM, which was issued in 2006. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0071par0049	Thank you, Mr. Önturk.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0072par0050	Mr. Mehmet, how many people were hurt, how many were taken?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0067par0051	Everyone who applied on those lists got it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0073par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0074par0053	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0073par0054	Mr. President, I've been promised only to determine a situation and make sure that it goes on the record. The speaker of the National Movement Party, Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, gave examples of Brekhan, Hatay, and Hatay in his speech. Even though there was no bullying, a valued member of parliament requested a statement on the charge of giving the right information, and you made a promise. I respect the right of all MPs. So you took the liberty and you gave him your word, and I have no objection to that. However, the Republican People's Party spokeswoman's demands from time to time on the basis of correction, information, are strongly welcomed and contested by members of the Justice and Development Party group, sir, only to the knowledge of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0075par0057	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0076par0058	Mr. President, this is a matter of interest to the whole of Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0073par0059	You have no say in the Civil Code. You spoke, I respect, I have no objection.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0075par0063	Against you, Karabuk MP Osman Coffeeci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0077par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the opening of Parliamental research to investigate the failures in Act 6292. I salute the High Council. So I celebrate our nation's Forestry Week, honor and thank you for all my forestry colleagues who have sacrificed their lives for a greener Turkey. Congressmans, the purpose of this law is to assess areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure by Article 2 of the Law on Forest 6831, to create new forest areas, to place villages in and near state forests, and to support the development of forest villages, as well as the method and basis for the sale of treasured farmland. Article 2 (A) and (B) of Forest Law 6831 contain areas to be removed and removed from the forest. With this law, the area 2/A has lost its forest quality and has been saved by the Ministry of Finance, which has been moved out of the forest for the treasure and has been decided to move places, in the state forests, and in the neighbouring villages, to be located in part or entirely elsewhere, while areas 2/B have lost the quality of the forest in science and science, and by the assessment of places to be removed from the forest for the treasure. Congressmans, in the civilization of humanity, people have always had and have been involved in the forests for the purpose of gaining and settling down. It's a process that has happened and ended in some countries, and it's still going on in some countries. This process has happened in our country, and hopefully it will end with the destruction of the forest and the land cadastro. This is the most obvious expression of where we are when the forest and land cadastros are up to 95 percent. The first start of the legal process of deforestationing forest-designed areas is the Law of the Forest 3116, issued in 1937. This was followed by the 61 and 82 constitutions. Although many legal regulations were later made, many of these processes were blocked by the cancellation of the Constitutional Court. As a result, hundreds of thousands of hectares of treasured land and thousands of citizens who have been using these land for years without paying any price in the name of the treasure wanted these problems to be solved as soon as possible. However, the problem that has been going on for more than 30 years has been unresolved, and the problem has become gangrene. The AK PARTY, as in every field, has been able to deal with people's concerns with the necessary sensitivity and courage in this field, and has fulfilled its promise to the nation by solving this problem. With this law, the procedure and the basis for the deployment of undeveloped forest villages into areas outside the forest limits. Again, with this law, 2/B was driven out of the jungle, but the forest was re-covered by the abandonment of its users and giving up its use. In this way, 11,000 per cent were restored to the forest in Istanbul alone. Again, by this law, the forest has completely lost its quality in science and science, and the users and rights owners of places that are no longer possible to return to the forest were sentenced to be sold directly to the rightful owners of these places on the rail price to be determined. The cost assessment takes into account elements such as the municipality, the trade room, the industry room, the market room, or experts, the location of the movers, the location of the movers, the value of the meters, the zoning and use of the precedents, efficiency and infrastructure. Control and testing are conducted from various angles, as to whether the costs vary according to the precedents, by going to the site so that our citizens do not suffer any harm. The cost of rural areas in the forest villages and areas in the city centers has not been equitable, as claimed, and each parcel has been assessed within itself. In rural areas of forest villages, for example, the minimum price in Antalya was 50 cents, and again, two cents in Bursa. The sale price of the rights owners will be sold directly is 70 per cent of the rail price, while the rate has been reduced to 50 per cent in agricultural-purpose areas with the latest regulation. This ratio corresponds to 95 percent of areas 2/B. Again, with the final arrangement, the application costs have been removed with great ease. In addition, it was easy to pay interest in the municipality's mujavir areas for five years, 10 installments; six years in villages, 12 equivalent installments. Again, with this law, the property records of property which were sold, distributed, trafficked, transferred, for free, or sold for privatisation as part of the private laws of the legal state have been approved, and it has been ruled that there will be no lawsuits against these places and no lawsuits. The total number of 2/B movings in progress has been 634,000 and 564 thousand applications from 733,000 users. This law wasn't made to make money in the budget. It's been intended to solve a social problem that has been gangrene for years. The fact that no price has been taken from these areas is also incompatible with the understanding of a social state. The development of forest villagers and their use of forest resources at the highest level is under way. According to the latest census, there are seven million people living in 21,395 forest villages in our country. 500,000 families make a living from forest resources. In this framework, 435 million loans have been transferred to forest villages only through the ORCY over the last ten years. Along with other forestry activities, a total of 9.7 billion Turkish liras have been transferred to the forest village over the past decade. On the other hand, in the overall budget of the Forest General Directorate, a special support for forestry has been provided from the general budget, with the share of the private budget increased from 25 per cent to 50 per cent. Another development, with 2/B, has been 411,000 hectares lost from the forest over the last 30 years, while our forest area has increased by 1.4 million hectares over the last 30 years. So the country lost from areas 2/B is 2 percent of our forest area, and over the last 30 years, our forest area has increased by 7 percent. As a result, this law was intended to solve a social problem that would not interfere with the development of our forest villagers and forests, and has been gangrene for many years. It's not about getting revenue from the state budget, it's about treating a social injury. Therefore, this Parliament declares that we are against the motion to investigate, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0078par0082	Thank you, Mr. Coffee Man. On the other hand, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0079par0086	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the nationalist Action Party group proposal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. The 42-year-old problem of 2/B remains unresolved. The first arrangement for 2/B was made on 17/10/83. After the execution of the 82 Constitution, the government of that period, the government of the coup era, had made the first arrangement and issued the Law on the Support of Forest Villagers No. 2924 in 17/10/1983. Look, today, we defame the 82 Constitution as the constitution of the coup era, and we complain about the laws passed at that time as the coup law. Come, let's change this Constitution; let's make a new, liberal constitution; let's change the laws of that period, the laws of the coup. We still don't reach the Law on the Support of the Forest Villagers, who were taken out during that time of the coup, and your laws are behind it, unfortunately, even behind the coup-time regulations. Last year, on April 19, 2012, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey adopted the 2/B law. The Republican People's Party has proposed highly constructive proposals since the beginning of the 2/B issue, but our proposals have not been accepted. However, we have expressed our intention to resolve the problems of the citizen of that law, which, God willing, would be successful, and we would be wrong. We have been right countless times, and I will tell you which one. This law didn't solve the problem, and you brought in another law here on January 30, 2013, and he didn't solve it, and on 6/3/2013, you accepted another law, so you changed it twice. The problem is still not solved. The citizen's ten-month application period, the waiting period, all of this is over, the price of 2/B has been announced since Monday, and the citizen has gone into a screaming street.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0080par0089	Exactly.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0079par0090	In İstanbul, Sultanbeyli, Beykoz, Çemmeköy, Umraniye, Sultangazi, and in other provinces of Anatolia, the citizen is miserable in Antalya, the citizen has gone out on the street, and has come out on the street. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm telling you there's still an opportunity, so let's settle this problem in Congress. What we suggested was, once again, I find it useful to remind you. Taking into consideration the status of the citizen and the principle of equality of the Constitution, we proposed: We envisioned a free hand for the forest villager for the land used by the forest villagers on 2/B. The reason why it's unpriced is that the 170th article of our Constitution dictates that the 2/B land will be given to the forest village. The forest villager has been using this land for hundreds of years, since his ancestors, perhaps grandfathers, and is the poorest part of Turkey. The average monthly income of the forest peasant per person is around $165-170. If you predict a turn over 50 percent of the cost to the forest peasant, the forest peasant won't get it. So the Antalyans, thousands of people took the bus to Ankara, wanted to make their voices heard. Listen to this sound. Secondly, we said that we have citizens who have structures on these fields, with buildings. İstanbul Beykoz, Sultanbeyli, Umraniye, Çemmeköy, Sultangazi, other provinces of Anatolia are very good examples of this. Thirty years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago, families came here, settled down and built a building, and they've been using this land for that long. Other than this building, the land he used other than this land, there's no other existence but the building he built on it. We told these citizens to turn over the property tax value set by the municipality, and you said, "No, Rayic, let's take over our citizens over 50 percent of the price, because this citizen has money." Third, we said: "Let's see a difference between this needy citizen and the citizen who bought 2/B land for investment, closed it down, and I'll get the deed, and I'll do my projects here." We thought we'd turn these over to whatever the market price is, whatever the price is. Now, how do you compare the 300 acres of 2/B land in Istanbul and the citizen who built over 300 square feet of land in Beskoz? How can we sell both of them over 50 percent of the price of Rayic? Let's put aside the principle of equality of the Constitution, the principle of the social state, and let's put aside the principle of compassion. Dear lawmakers, the government has forgotten to walk the streets among citizens from running in hotels' red carpets, and does not know his condition. If they get out of the red carpets of hotels and walk a little bit on the streets of Sultanbeyli, and talk to those leaders and citizens, they'll see how contrary these prices are to the truth. I'd like to give you a few examples. My phones have been ringing off the hook since Monday. Our citizens, our chiefs are looking for me, complaining. I'm getting calls from all over Turkey. I'll give you a few examples of Beskoz. The prices have been announced in 16 districts of Beskoz, and the government has not disclosed nine neighborhoods. There's no solution in those nine neighborhoods. Let those citizens be anxious, look, be anxious; they may say that we will practice according to Article 8 of the Law 2/B. The 8th article of the 2/B Law, if in any way the Department of Environment and Urbanism, or the Department of Environment and Urbanism, is involved, our citizen may have one apartment at best. He'll pay a price for it, too, and that's in the law. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism can sell Rayic at any price, or he can give him an apartment within that rights from the project that he is going to do, taking into account his home there. He won't give it to me if he wants to, he'll say he'll sell it for the price. It's never a safe way for those nine neighborhoods. This is where I announce it to the neighborhood of 9 Beykoz. In the other 16 neighborhoods, 20 villages, prices are extraordinarily high. The village of Alibahadır: the number is up to 150 liras, the figures explained. Real estate tax value is between $15 and $30. The relative village: Tax value is 95 lira, a number of between $500 and $600 has been raised. I mean, if it's 500 square meters, the citizen's gonna have to pay $250,000. I'll show it to you. He means I'll show it to you. It's an exemplary village. Zerzevist village, tax value of 50 liras, price of 400 liras. Zerzevat means small, insignificant thing in the dictionary. Of course, the Zerzevist village is a small, insignificant village. Zerzevat, I mean, we can throw it away. He sees it in his eyes, he forgets it. In Sultanbeyli's Mehmet Akif Ersoy neighborhood, there is a $400 price on Darende Street, 400 euros on one street. So if there's 500 square meters, if there's 250,000 liras, 250 square feet, that's $150,000, that's what our citizen will pay. But that citizen has no job, he's lost his job. He says, "I can't pay it, not pay it. I can't pay it if my seven families come together." There's a $400 price in Fatih District, Tuzkaya Street. There's no way the citizen can pay for this. I'm running out of time. I'm putting it together. We, the Republican People's Party, proposed a law again two days ago. My call to the government: Come, don't be stubborn, let's fix this. Thank you, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0081par0104	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Against you, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0082par0108	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0083par0110	It's not the Republic, it's the National Movement Party's group proposal, so don't confuse it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0082par0111	Yes, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the National Movement Party. On this occasion, again, with respect, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, this group proposal... Customs Act 437, talks on general yesterday, negotiations are complete, we'll proceed to their quarters today. There are important issues here that concern our society. It needs to be legalized as soon as possible. Society is following this closely, and public opinion is following this closely.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0084par0113	Doesn't 2/B matter? Doesn't 2/B matter?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0082par0114	Hopefully, we'll get this out with our Republican People's Party, National Movement Party, Peace and Democracy MPs as soon as possible. The orators that have come out here have made various criticisms about the problems of the forest villagers, about law 2/B. I especially want to say that during the AK PARTY administrations, forest areas have expanded. It's a real success to expand forest areas by about 10 percent and to solve the problems of forest villagers, those who are conflicting with the forest. You're going to expand the forest area, and you're going to stab the problem with a scalpel, which is one of the successful areas of our governments.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0085par0116	It's been increasing since 72, Mr. Ramadan. The forest area has been increasing since 72. It's in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0082par0117	On the other hand, during the AK PARTY administrations, it was a 30.7 billion Turkish dollar source that left the general budget and encouragement to forest villagers. This is a really serious resource, and we say it's good for our citizens. On the other hand, there have been mentioned changes in law 2/B, even in the Republican People's Party Group Deputy Director: During the Supreme Governments, in the constitution of coup, the incentives and investments regarding the Law on Forests in the Constitution of September 12th. The AK PARTY government was left behind. We were also pleased that it actually pronounced the constitution of coup and said that it would compare September 12th with the AK PARTY. We especially want to say that during the AK PARTY administrations, the number that I just said about the development and encouragement of forest villagers is a great number. One of the reasons why changes have been brought in here a dozen times in the 2/B Act is, of course, the criticism of society, the criticism of the opposition.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0086par0121	Mr. Ramadan, why did you shut down the ORC?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0082par0122	We don't ignore the opposition's demands. If the opposition's demands meet the base's demands, the General Assembly here will find it remarkable. If the opposition demands do not comply with the demands of the citizens and the demands of the people, of course, we will not consider it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0087par0123	Where do you live? Do you live in America?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0082par0124	In this sense, the latest 50 percent of the change brought here in the Law 2/B is considered, so this means that 100 lira means that our citizens can get something of real value for $50, which is really easy for our citizens. The Customs Act is on the agenda, and we need to immediately legalize the customs law, legalize it. We're going to do this with all the political parties in the House, and we're going to solve one more problem for our citizen. Of course, the group proposal for forest villages is a priority, as well as important, but our government does its work. In these feelings, I welcome the group's proposal to the General Assembly, and again, I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0088par0128	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0089par0131	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit02spe0088par0132	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çam, Mr. Akar, Mr. Seçar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ayadım, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Akgöl, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Special, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Akova, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Güven. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0088par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting was not enough in the polls before the vote of the National Party for Action Group's 19th Amendment proposal. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (27/03/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 26/02/2013, it was suggested by Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 20 lawmakers to be read to the Turkish Parliament on 27/03/2013 in the same day's edition of the parliamentary research motion (735 desks no.lu) in order to determine legal regulations that should be changed in the context of freedom of thought and press. In favor of the proposal, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0090par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, my friends and I are the most arrested journalists in the world. This is a situation that should be shamed both for me and for every member of parliament in a democratic country. If we believe in democracy, if we really are democrats, then every congressman should be ashamed of it one by one. For the elected MP, it should be known for our country that if a country journalist can't write freely, can't write freely, can't criticize power freely and is thrown into prison for what he wrote, the name of this regime is not democracy. If a newspaper boss is afraid, from his experience, the Prime Minister is my benefactor, the name of our regime is not democracy. That's why AKP power today has made Turkey the world's largest journalistic dungeon. More than 70 journalists are physically in prison, while the rest of the journalists are in an open-air prison, unfortunately, in Turkey. Dear friends, on September 12th, the number of arrested journalists was 31, while Turkey today has more than twice that number of arrested journalists. Dear AKP lawmakers, the Kenan Universe says that the horn has passed. I am proud of the AKP. The numbers are in the middle, 45 journalists in Iran, 32 in China, 4 in Saudi Arabia, 4 in Bahrain. 15 journalists are arrested in Syria, where AKP is striving to change power. And why is that? Look, there's a journalist you've arrested who explains why he's like this, valuable lawmakers. In the letter he wrote, all who have trouble with the truth first turn to darken it, and are truly afraid. Sometimes the bomb, sometimes the fire falls on those who spread the truth. Sometimes it's the death of torture, the end of the search for truth, and sometimes the fire in a fire. In these dark times, coded with an advanced democracy lie, arrests, long imprisonments and isolation torture fall down to our journalist's share. He says he writes from prison. Here, my friends, we face such unlawful practices because those who have ruled this country for 12 years have a problem with reality. Look, dear friends, I have a map. This map is a disgrace to our country, a disgrace to our country. It was prepared by the Committee to Protect International Journalists. This dark -- unfortunately there is Turkey -- places show that freedom of expression and media is fatally risky. Our country is dark because it's shown among the most risky countries. According to the report of this committee, the country where the most journalists are imprisoned in the world comes to Turkey, followed by Iran and China immediately. This is one of the key achievements the AKP has achieved in 12 years. In fact, freedom of the press, valued lawmakers, have been in constant decline since 2005, since we were in the 98th place in 2005, we were in the 148th place in 2012, and we are now in the 154th place. Burkina Faso, Kenya, United Arab Emirates, Libya, Tunisia are much freer than we are. If you forbid thinking, talking, writing, of course, this painting will come out. Look, a arrested journalist Ahmet Birsin, editor-in-chief of Radio-TV- says that thinking is a sin to betray, to write. The reason for thinking and writing is considered the reason for burning, arrest and hanging. Here is actually the logic of AKP's advanced democracy in the last 12 years, friends. Dear friends, these are the conservative democrat versions of Mussolini's fascism. Look, the Italian Communist MP Gramsci, even though he had immunity from law enforcement, was thrown into prison and the prosecutor said: "We have to stop the work of this head for 20 years. You are 1926, Mussolini Fascimism. Today, the view in Turkey, unfortunately, dear friends, is no different. Such journalism is said by the Prime Minister. He says that he is a journalist. He says that he is a journalist. He has been unemployed for many years. How do you keep these guys as columnists? Their boss forces opposition journalists to fire them, sues everyone for insults, makes an unpublished book -- something written on world literature in the history of the world -- look like a bomb. Not enough, the former Home Secretary declares the painter, the poet, a terrorist. Journalists are being sued for membership in a terrorist organization simply because they do their jobs, and their reports or articles are considered criminal. Dear lawmakers, whatever a fascist regime does today, Turkey does the same. And they're trying to come up with the right reasons because according to the Prime Minister, they're terrorists disguised as journalists. So what's their crime? I read from the indictments, my dear friends: May 1st, March 8th news, fingerprinting in the magazine where he works, sending toothpaste and brush to the former editor, having a friend's wedding CDEST in his home, the second name given to him by his family is silenced by the free press, such as the use of the Kurdish name of Diyarbakır. But remember, dear lawmakers, if you threaten the media, you threaten freedom of expression, you threaten democracy, you threaten the media, you become a dictator, and that's what we call today's regime of fascism. I'd like to talk to you about the journalist you arrested and put in prison, Zeynep Kurish. On February 24, 2012, Zeynep Kurish, who was visited by Mr. Free Special and Nurettin Demir... with Karataş Women's Prison last weekend, made a report called sexual abuse claim at the Potanti Prison, and was later thrown in prison. The Republican People's Party prison commission uncovered this Posanti Prison. First, the Ministry of Justice denied us, and then the Prime Minister, the President and the political party leaders, especially the Minister of Justice, announced their apology and condemned the precious MPs. However, there are only two people who are being punished here: Ali Godverdi, president of the Mersin Human Rights Association, who has made this news heard -- we visited him on Friday -- and Zeynep Kurish, who is now in prison. Zeynep Kurish said: If you speak, ask the AKP government, ask those who imprisoned us. We've reported the rapists, we've reported the rapes on our children. He asked me to ask if the people who imprisoned us were with us or with the rapists. I'm asking in front of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, we're visiting everyone without a second opinion. IBDA-C, Hezbollah, KCK, we're visiting everyone. According to former Editor-in-Chief Şükrü Sak of the Raider Road magazine: "The charges against me have been shown as evidence as the contents of my own hand-written notes and as the content of the Raider Road magazine, which I was then editor of at the time. Dear friends, the report of TÜBITAK has proven that the evidence against Cumhuriyet daily writer Mustafa Balbay, who has been arrested for 1,480 days, is false. All of the notes between 1998 and 2006, I'm speaking to your consciences, all of you, in your consciences, if you have them, if you see them -- are said to have kept all of his notes from 1998 to 2006 in three and a half minutes. Deniz Baykal/a, the talks he had with the President are shown as evidence, and what's interesting is that Uğur Mumcu is being tried for joining the same organization as the killers of the Barracks, Ahmet Taner, and the ones who dropped bombs on his own newspaper, and in fact, Mustafa Balbay says, "We visited him on Thursday" -- Mustafa Balbay says: "Is there any greater blame, greater torture, greater persecution? Ask my elected paralegal friends with me. Dear friends, another journalist Hikmet Cicek sent a letter today. Hikmet Cicek is being tried by other substances, not by the items he was arrested for. It's about his special legal status. He's not on trial for his arrest, guys. On the charges he's on, there's no warrant for his arrest. Look, this freak, this disgrace, this disgrace can only occur in Turkey. There are other names: Deniz Yıldırım, Sami Mentesh, the youngest journalist in Turkey. I said, "What organization are you in?" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm only a member of the Republican People's Party Denizli organization. I ask you to support the establishment of this research commission, if you are sincere about democracy, about human rights, and I ask you to free Turkey from this disgrace. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0091par0046	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Against him, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0092par0050	Thank you. Mr. President, I would like to welcome the respected Turkish nation's MPs, the People's Party Group, to share with you the views of the People's Party Party of Turkey's National Movement Party on a proposal by the Republican People's Party to determine the problems and needs of journalists and to open parliamentary research in order to make needed improvements. I salute your high council. As a state that has the most prisoners and prisons among the European states, there is no doubt that we have a lot to say about our judicial system, including the penal system. Despite three pardons from the ruling party, including members of PKK and TK terrorist organization, there are still more than 125 thousand people in prisons today. Prisoners waiting for the ruling of the Ministry of Justice to be finalised are arrested by close to 50 per cent of those in prisons, although the prisoner-dominated rate is tried to hide it. One-third of the defendants are arrested in the world standards, half and half of the defendants are arrested in Turkey. The rate of imprisonment by the prisoners is 99.9% in Japan; 99.6% in China and Korea; 98.9 in France; 96.5 in Germany; 90.3 in the UK; 90.3 in Turkey; 50-60 in prison. So he is still imprisoned in prisons, where four of the 10 people who are still on trial are in prison, five of whom are not guilty. In terms of their detention time, Turkey has also a grave picture. European countries have imposed more human limitations on the duration of their arrest. In Austria, for example, two years is the maximum sentence for crimes over five years. In Germany, six per cent of the prisoners are imprisoned for more than a year, and more than six months of imprisonment are subject to a special decision. In Scotland, the maximum imprisonment of a hundred and ten days is not more than four years in France, which is the most severe incarceration period. We have five years in cases in the field of aggravated criminal courts and ten years in crimes referred to as catalog crimes. As a matter of fact, today, journalists who have been tried and arrested for over five years for this brutal understanding and practice, as well as soldiers, politics and scientists, businessmen, law enforcement. The poor arrangement of the issue is the main reason for this painting, as much as for the poor interpretation and poor execution of the AKP's desire to envelop the judiciary and rule the judiciary. The AKP, which first designed the structure of the Constitutional Court and HSYK (HSYK) with the amendments to the 2010 Constitutional referendum, threatens all opposing parties with justice; its real name is, but its name is the "Ergenekon" case, particularly Balyoz, military espionage, and Poyrazköy, neutralizes its opponents with cases such as "Pyrazköy." Judgment has been made an instrument of power. The judiciary has been a tool to punish soldiers, police and rangers fighting terrorism to negotiate, negotiate with the PKK. One of the most valuable officers who fought the PKK and its pack of jackals and were punished is our Istanbul MP, Engin Alan Pasha. Engin Alan is the leading actor and hero of the death and murder of more than 40,000 of our citizens, most of whom are Kurdish, who took the baby killer as a rat and handed him over to our government. He's been arrested, wrongfully and unlawfully charged for the trial known as the Sledgehammer case. It currently resides in Sincan Type F Prison. As the trial continued, he did not even ask for release because he knew that the person who arrested him was actually the AKP government and that the request came from the PKK. Now in prison, he knows very well that the opportunities given to the baby killer, the killer of 40,000 people, were not given to him. In fact, the books he reads don't care that there are restrictions on what he's going to wear. I'm like a bomb. He says. So we went to visit him, and he really was a bomb, like a harpoon. When you told us not to let the separatists go out, we would stay here for a lifetime. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the government, who has made legal arrangements to contain the HSYK, are taking advantage of its benefits to intimidate its opponents and to avoid criminal trials. For example, the trial, known in public as the MIT case, ended last week when the prosecutor decided not to follow. A new piece of information on the investigation file, the only difference in closing the investigation without a document, was that the prosecutor had been replaced. The board of officials and individuals who saw the prime minister in distress changed the prosecutor and settled the issue. In fact, it is also necessary to ask the Prime Minister why he has not changed prosecutors and judges in other arrests he has filed, including the former Chief of Staff. Why has Turkey been like this in the last few years? Why did fear and anxiety prevail in society? Why have we evolved into citizens of the horror empire? The answers to all these questions intersect at the same point. The converted judiciary also triggered the transformation of society. Yes, judgment has changed, it has changed. The resources and values the judiciary feeds on, the saints have changed, the priorities have changed. It has been the ideology of the changing judiciary and its values. After the constitutional amendment, universal values have been replaced by terms such as the reputation of the government, the legitimacy and superiority of the bilateral differences, the innate rights of the aideological superior, the most protected areas, the state of the law, and the rule of law. The latest developments in our country show that there has been a new focus of power within the judiciary, sometimes paralleling political power, and sometimes conflicting with political power. This focus is increasingly concerned that both the appointment and promotions in the judiciary and the decisions made by the judiciary are interfering. To me, the most concrete indicator is that the president and the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Speaker of Parliament insist on not changing the position of the judiciary, despite their complaining of long imprisonments and unnecessary arrests. Although the ruling Parliament has a majority, the special authorities cannot organise the lengths of their imprisonment with the organisation, mandates and duties of the courts. Despite all his bullying in the eyes of the court, the government fell inside. The government, which accuses the judiciary of being under religious and bureaucratic custody, has fallen into an ideological trap with its constitutional changes to establish its own custody. He also lost his political power over the judiciary and put it under the tutelage of a certain staff movement. The judicial power I speak of has now become a threat to political power, along with its supporters in the administration. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, law enforcement and armed forces with the monopoly of force in democracies are trained monsters. The chains of this monster are the state of law and judgment. So judgment is the power that controls this monster. If the judgment frees this monster's chains, it can protect society neither political power nor legislation. That is the basis of the problem we face today. Judgement frees the monster's chains, and it's being thrown back to where this monster's pulling. I'd like to share with you three cases concerning the co-operation of the judiciary and the cooperation of the judiciary with the power: You all remember Lieutenant Chelebi, who was arrested within the scope of the investigation, known as the Ergenekon case. While Lieutenant Çelebi was in custody, his phone was loaded with the phone numbers of 139 Hezbollah members, and the incident occurred when one of the court's judges made the identification of the case, asking the unmarried Lieutenant Cheleby what his mother-in-law's phone was doing. In fact, it is also necessary to discuss whether the court judge said this carefully or carelessly. Another concern is that of a colonel who was alleged to have spoken to a woman named ▪Vika. In the case of military espionage and blackmail, she was deported as a Russian agent. There are allegations that the colonel's transcripts have entered this file, and his case is ongoing. These are two striking examples of what might happen to us, including all of us in this House, in the event that law enforcement forces who cooperate with the judiciary are malicious. Another example is a decision made by the court on the arrest of Adana Metropolitan Mayor. The AKP's answer to the arrest warrant against Aytaç Durak, who was investigated after becoming mayor of the National Movement Party for a crime he committed at the time, is an exemplary response to all of us. I'd like to read this decision in front of you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the examination of the investigation document, Aytaç Durak, who said that public institutions and organisations had been corrupting his tender, was denied the objection to the appeal of the arrest, as he committed a crime of unauthorized use of another person's bank or credit card. That's what the verdict is. It's the ruling party. One day, the ruling party will need justice much more than those who live today. Justice is a necessary element for all of us. With these feelings, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0093par0070	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. In his favor, Justice Kurt, the Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0094par0074	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have received a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the Assembly, and I salute you all. Of course, when it comes to freedom of thought and freedom of opinion, freedom of the press, I think we all need to realize that we've come to the point where water like this stops. In Turkey, when we evaluate freedom of press on the axis of freedom of opinion, we have to see that we have caught the process at a very specific point when it comes to resolving many of our problems, or we have stepped on a sensitive point. Therefore, the Republican People's Party's proposal for this investigation is important and, let me rephrase, we support it. However, we believe that this motion for parliamentary research, given based on current data and data, is insufficient. As a whole, Turkey needs a radical study of the violation of press freedom. There is a need for an incentive to conduct a more comprehensive, broader study that will lead us to the production of liberal laws on freedom of the press. Now, since freedom of the press in Turkey has always been expressed through arrested journalists and polymixes have been developed through arrested journalists, the nature of the problem, the size of the problem, is not very understandable. In the last year, if I'm not mistaken, this has been the 5th time that this has come to parliament's agenda, the issue of freedom of the press, the situation of the arrested journalists. Yes, there is such a problem. A deputy friend of mine said: I'm the MP who's visited the most journalists. I can make it clear and clear that I'm the most friends and journalist friends in prison right now. I can make that very clear. And why is that? Now, when you look at the data from the Ministry of Justice, it's basically like this in Turkey's prisons, because of freedom of thought and opinion, there's not a lot of victims in there, but that's where the problem is. There's a legal arrangement in the middle that doesn't approach the journalist like a journalist, doesn't see the journalist as a journalist. We're talking about this problem on a ground that perceives the journalist as a terrorist, sees the journalist as a potential threat to government, order, the system. We need to get this thing out of here. In 2004, the Press Law, issued by the current government, made it very clear and clear that no one can write freely in Turkey. But do these violations begin in 2004, the antidemocratic legal provisions? Of course it's not, it's prelim, it's prerequisite, but I can make it very clear that the Law on Press in 2004 is the worst antidemocratic press law in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Based on this Press Law, no one has the opportunity to express his opinion freely. Now, we're free to express our thoughts and talk about what's happening in prisons right now. We don't really have the chance to see the size of the barricades set up in front of the ideas in Turkey because we can't really talk or talk. This is a serious problem. So, not only is this a recent research investigation, but as a whole, it is necessary to establish a research commission in Turkey with an approach to the problem of freedom of the press and a radical solution. Can you imagine? The 2004 Press Law is far more antidemocratic than the 1994 Press Law. The columnists criticize the government or lose their job the next day because someone wrote something they didn't like. Let all the government officials come out and say, "We don't have that kind of advice. You put such a suggestion in the press, in the law. You know what you've done to a press group by taxing it, everyone has witnessed it. So just taking the pen out of the journalist's hand doesn't mean breaking his pen is a violation of thought. This is the final point of view in violation of thought. There's before, there's before. As a whole, we need to remove all barricades in front of freedom of thought and freedom of opinion and allow democracy to find the basis in the country. We're having problems because it's not done. The issue of media design is... if you design media positive, it's negative, and if you design negative, it's negative. So let people write good things. Even saying that is a handicap in terms of freedom of the press. Let him write whatever he sees in this area, whatever he sees in it. And when you say, by force, write good, you admit, by force, you say, "Worse" as well, which we know, the meetings with media bosses weren't criticized here. Meetings with editors-in-chief of newspapers, televisions, were not criticised. They didn't go over the vows, or everyone looked out of a window from their own front, taking care of their own size. As a whole, Congress was not involved in an attempt to create a partnership and contribute to the fundamental solution of the problem. Everyone started making noise when they touched him, but in essence, the violations in this area, the antidemocratic practices, touch everyone. What touches us today, touches you tomorrow, or touches you yesterday, touches someone else today. No one should see the press as their own backyard and view society as a designing tool. There is a problem with this approach to the press in Turkey. There is a problem in Turkey, unfortunately, because he is a permanent community engineer and uses the press as a tool for this community engineering. Come on, let's give it up. When we vote yes, we should know that in Turkey, we open a door to solving a fundamental problem, but at first, I said, if we limit it to the current, if we limit it to a few popular names found in prisons today, we'll be done early. The problem is that, since there is no basis for an intellectual debate, it can sometimes be the basis for insults that we can't call an idea on the council bench. Who here serves what? If every sentence we say here touches people's sensitivities, if it touches people's veins, we say it's better to talk a little more moderately. Freedom of thought, yes, has to be. Now, the current government is bringing an arrangement in the fourth judicial package. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, I suggest you leave the 6th and 7th articles of the Anti-Terror Act in this fourth judicial package, please, don't edit it like it used to be, and don't let it fall into society to improve it. We will also vote on this research proposal, and we would like the Assembly to share a common position on the matter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0095par0092	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Against Bart's MP Yilmaz Bronze. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0096	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The Republican People's Party's group proposal claims that there is no freedom of press in our country, that journalists have been put in prison for doing their jobs, and that parliament is asked to set up a research commission on this issue, and that parliament is requested to be brought to its agenda today. Dear MPs, freedom of the press is an important right guaranteed in Article 28 of our Constitution. It is also stated in our Constitution that this right can be restricted to issues such as domestic and external security, incitement to crime and rebellion, publishing classified information of the state. In the research motion, I would first like to point out that the statements on the figures and reasons for the arrest of arrested journalists and the alleged newspapers have nothing to do with the facts. The research proposal mentions a press freedom report prepared by a website. It is stated that 71 journalists were imprisoned and imprisoned for their writings.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0097par0100	It's not a website, it's the most respected journalism agency in the world.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0101	In a statement issued by the Journalists' Union, 72 journalists...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0097par0102	It's not a website. The International Press Institute is not a website.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0103	...accused and convicted. The Justice Department has informed the public by making the necessary assessments on this matter. In the list of journalists' Union of Turkey, three of the 72 arrested and convicted names have not been registered in prisons, while six of them have been released. 18 of the 63 people in prisons have press cards, while 45 have not press cards. 59 of the arrested and convicted 63 people have been arrested or convicted of crimes that were not alleged by press, but by press charges that had nothing to do with the press. When we look at the crimes of journalists expressed in the Republican People's Party group proposal, it is said that they committed several crimes, such as the TİKKO, from murder to bank robbery, looting and extortion, fraud in official documents, assaulting security forces, carrying unlicensed weapons, possession of dangerous substances, threatening to collect bonds, breaking constitutional order, such as the PKK, to become a member of terrorist organizations such as Ergenekon, aiding and abetting armed terror organizations, and collecting money for armed terrorist organizations. As it turns out, do these crimes have anything to do with the profession of journalism, lawmakers? Freedom of the press is not freedom of crime. We can't separate criminals from their professions. He's a lawyer who did the prosecution attack, what does that have to do with being a lawyer? Two grenades were dropped at the Justice Department last week. The shooter has been identified, and it is said that he has been the head of a trade union in the past. Now, when this person is caught and arrested, the synths are arrested. Will you cry out? Therefore, the issue of arrested and convicted journalists must be assessed not only in figures, but in terms of whether the crimes alleged to have been committed or committed are part of journalistic activity.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0098par0106	Why is Hanefi Hunter under arrest?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0107	Answer him, arrested journalist, who has the most in the world.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0108	And the investigations and lawsuits launched by independent judicial bodies and the arrests and verdicts of conviction...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0109	Is it appropriate to accuse people of terrorism? You're a congressman by the vote of the people.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0110	...that the government is pressuring the press is not the right approach.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0111	You're calling people who haven't been arrested a terrorist.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0112	There is no crime in what is written in order to wear the government down. In the framework of freedom of the press, everyone will say what they want.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0113	Where? Where?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0114	From morning to evening, the government is against...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0115	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0116	...we've all seen television broadcasts where cruel criticisms are being made.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0117	Do you believe me? Do you believe me?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0100par0118	Yeah, you're doing that to yourself.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0119	These journalists, these televisions, continue their broadcasts. Don't you guys ever watch these TVs? Don't you ever watch the National Canal? Don't you ever read The Light? Don't these newspapers make the cruelest criticisms and insults?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0120	Hasan Abi, what happened?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0121	Don't you read the New Age newspaper?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0122	What happened to Hasan Abi?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0123	Are these newspapers closed? Aren't they all obvious?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0124	Hasan, what happened?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0125	But that's not your problem. As we look at the ongoing investigations of the judiciary, we see that the investigations had nothing to do with freedom of the press.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0126	What happened to the Prime Minister's Hasan Abi? What happened to Uður Dündar? What happened to Rushen Çakır? What happened to Nuray Mert? What happened to Ece Çekkuran?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0127	You're saying a journalist mentioned in the research motion was arrested for writing the May 1 article.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0128	Yeah.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0129	He wasn't arrested for writing the May 1 article, he was arrested for being a member of the TK.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0130	Wow! It's your mind that created them!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0131	Go and take a look at his file and pay attention to the sentences you wrote here in the research motion.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0132	It's not them who make them terrorists, it's your mentality!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0133	The AK PARTI government, which declared May 1st a festival, is the ruling AK PARTY, which declared Labor and Solidarity Day.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0135	Fascism, fascism! This mentality, this mentality!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0136	Again, it is not true that Mustafa Balbay, mentioned in the research motion, is under arrest for journalism.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0137	The most arrested unionists in the world are here, the most arrested MPs are here.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0138	Reporter Balbay was prepared to overthrow the government at gunpoint in 2003-2004...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0099par0139	Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0140	Yellow Girl, Moonlight, Yakamoz and Glove are under arrest for supporting coup plans.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0101par0142	Congressmans, please remain calm.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0143	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll give you an example.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0102par0144	Give it to me.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0145	Take a look at the dialogue between a journalist and a pasha, which is subject to trial and reflected in indictments.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0103par0146	Let's see.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0147	For years, we have been watching what is happening in the country. It's enough for a Chief of Staff to express his opinion, not in a loud voice, to frown like this. When you get together, he means the Chief of Staff -- aren't you saying that?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0103par0148	Now there's Hero Cloud.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0149	The answer of the Pasha is: "We say it, believe us, we say it in the most obvious way." And after you say it, the journalist says, "Do you speak clearly?" He says, "Do you speak openly?"
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0104par0150	Why is Hanefi Hunter under arrest?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0151	Now, valuable lawmakers, the continuation of this conversation between a general and a journalist is already in the judicial files. Is it a journalist's job to have such a conversation with the generals in order to overthrow the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where we stand and serve in the name of the nation? Of course, we're not going to evaluate it, so independent judgment is going to do it. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, I'll give you another example: in another reporter's interview with a person, no, I mean, these guys need to be left alone. Nothing's gonna clean this up but civil war now. Well, it seems that way. When you say that, the journalist doesn't have a civil war, so at some point, if it gets messy...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0105par0155	Please, calm down and listen.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0156	...in both economic and political terms, maybe if the soldiers came, something could happen. That's what the journalist says, and you're defending it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0106par0157	None of them are terrorists, you're making them terrorists!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0158	It is a great injustice to confuse the journalists who have done their job and those who have committed the crimes I've just counted, and to our journalists and to the profession of journalism.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0106par0159	Zeynep Kurish says these are the government of rapists.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0160	The judiciary says it is not journalistic activity and does the necessary investigation and prosecution. It's up to us to wait for the financial truth to come out before it affects these investigations and prosecutions. The European Court of Human Rights has also made a decision, ruling that the Ergenekon cases are being held independently and fairly in Turkish courts and that the arrests are based on legitimate reasons.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0106par0162	This government is with those who are raping in Posance! This government is such a government with those who have raped children in Posant.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0163	Dear MPs, you can criticize the government, you can criticize the EC PARTY, no one can interfere. If you're going beyond the critic, it's not going to be with the chest, it needs violence, it needs chaos, it needs guns. If you say so, then you'll get independent judgment.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0106par0164	Tell me this: May 1st, March 8th...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0165	Again, the research proposal states that around 5,000 websites have been blocked.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0106par0166	Today's oppressors were the oppressors of the religion. Says Salih Mirzabeyoğlu.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0167	Web sites, if it involves children's sexual abuse and obsceneness...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0106par0168	Yeah, who's being punished for this?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0169	If he's propaganda for terrorist organizations, if he's sharing in violation of copyright, he's blocked by a court order. This has nothing to do with freedom of the press. Dear lawmakers, we've made important legal arrangements in recent years to move freedom of press and expression further in Turkey. In the Press Law, we have made arrangements to extend press freedom, as the news source was not announced.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0107par0171	If they don't reveal the source of the news, I will. The Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0172	With the third judicial reform, we've put off press crimes last year in a judicial package.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0107par0173	If the BDP doesn't explain it, I'll explain it. The Prime Minister said, what else are you going to do?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0174	Again, the fourth judicial package, which is currently on the agenda of the Justice Commission, brings important reforms in terms of freedom of thought and expression.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0107par0175	You tell that to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0176	Since the events mentioned in the Republican People's Party's group proposal had nothing to do with journalism activity...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0107par0177	Adam, watch your fucking mouth!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0096par0178	... thatthe group proposal should not be taken into consideration, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0108par0180	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0109par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0108par0182	Here you go, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0109par0183	Thank you for your promise. Mr. President, he's tried to speak to you several times. As our speaker speaks, there is a particularly intense and very slang speech from the Republican People's Party ranks. We can't reconcile it with our sense of kindness. While the previous group proposal was being discussed, Mr. Hamzacebi, deputy leader of the Republican People's Party Group, has again issued some warnings and warnings to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, specifically targeting my group. I offer the same sensitivity to their knowledge and also to your knowledge. I demand that their members show the sensitivity they expect from us. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0110par0187	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0111par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0110par0191	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0111par0192	I won't answer, sir. We want roll call.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0110par0194	You want roll call... Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Agababa, Mr. Süsam, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Akova, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Güler, Mr. Korutk, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Sar, Mr. Çetin. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Human Rights Review Commission, the European Union Compliance Commission and Interior Commission Reports in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The Proposal of the Law on Customs Laws and Laws shall be placed in the 4th place, and of Ankara MP İzzet Cettin and Ankara MP İzzet Cetin to add a Interim Article to the Decision of Article 640 Under Law; of İzmir MP Oguz Oyan to the Order of Law and the Order of Law on Agriculture Sales Co-operatives and Associations; of İstanbul MP Hüseyin Bürge and 23 MPs; of the Order of the Law and the Law on Order of Laws and of Law on Laws and Orders of Laws, and of Laws on Laws and Orders on Orders of Laws and Orders of Laws of Law; of Laws and of Laws and Laws and Orders and Orders of Laws and Orders, We shall be prepared to meet with the Constitutions and amendments and amendments and amendments of the Constitutions of İstanbul MP Hüseyin Bürge and 23 MPss and 23 MPss; of the Laws and Orders and Orders and Orders of the Laws and Orders of the Laws and Orders and Orders of the Laws and Orders. The commission and the government are in place. Yesterday's merger was adopted into the articles of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to the 91st Article of the Civil Code. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers Articles 1 to 23. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first chapter belongs to İzmir MP Oğuz Oyan. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0112par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, sir, this bag is the 10 articles of the law we're talking about, and it's the 1 interim clause, which is the 11th article, the agricultural sales co-ops, it's their union. It's changing Law 4572. What you call Law 4572 is an 8th and 1 interim law, except for execution and execution, so we're making a change by bringing more matter than it is, but we're doing it by law, so we're not bringing in a separate law, we're not bringing in an independent bill. Of course, Mr. Secretary says it's a bag of laws, but it has one feature. What's so special about it? ▪ They are all concerned with our Ministry. (x) 437 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 82nd Unification Charter, dated 26/3/2013. Mr. Secretary, for once, of course, first you pass your own agency law, you're still being ruled by the law. Secondly, display the determination to bring such an important arrangement in private. This was also necessary for the following: Law 4572 is a law that the World Bank has written its first draft, so it would be useful for the order of this law, the number of its name, and perhaps the change of its name, to rid Turkey of any shame. My dear friends, on June 16, 2000 of Law 4572, this Parliament has been in effect for thirteen years, and you have put 11 years into the 2008 program. In the 2008 programme, you said: "We, the TSKBs, will change this law, we will make new arrangements." You also made preparations in 2009, but he did not come to Parliament. He didn't show up, so what? For one thing, the troops' DFI debt continued to grow out of thin air. After that, there aren't many of you who have already used DFI credits, but you, out of the blue, have increased the debt of the troops by not fulfilling your responsibility. Now we've reduced it, you say. But then you increase it, and then you reduce it, and then you put the interest charge on it. Dear friends, the troops have two basic problems. One of these two basic problems is these accumulated debts, these DFI loans. Of course, the troops actually have a debt to the banks. There are other government debts -- insurance or tax -- but essentially loans and the lion's share are now in DFIF. You're restructuring these DFI loans -- we'll see about that, you've got a restructuring in Article 27, but this restructuring is done with more treasure logic, so it's done through the obsession with budget balances -- I know that your Ministry also suggested that this be done under better conditions, but you probably don't mention the treasure either. So if you do the whole thing here through budget balances, you're going to bring down these troops, you're going to sink these troops, you're going to liquidate the troops. That was the main purpose of the IMF program, which was to get the troops involved in the liquidation process, largely. Two of them are already in liquidation, Apricot Union and TASKORIKİLKİLK, but many of them are fighting to survive, especially the Cotton League, by selling very important properties, by reducing their activities. They're still trying to support their partners and ultimately agriculture, ultimately agricultural production, to contribute. That's the first problem, which is the first problem, which is, unfortunately, you haven't been able to make enough arrangements to delay the DFI loans. Look, how did these DFI loans come about? I'll tell you that. The savings of pre- 2000 troops were subject to an inquiry, their debts were erased before May 2000, but in exchange, two things were specifically requested from the troops, one of them: we bring a restructuring board over you, you consult with us every time you take a step, you narrow down your investments, you redesign a part of your investments, and you redesign your staff regime, and the state's severance benefits can be met, if the state pays the treasury. Now, what happened? Are the troops better off? The removal of past debts is not a cure for trouble because the Union needs a new product credit every year. The troops need money again, every year, during their product shopping period. How are they gonna take it? Either you're going to give them -- you're going to have a credit tap as a government -- or they're going to borrow from the market. Over a DFIF fund -- I mean, over the Support and Price Stability Fund -- a 250 billion -- with 250 million in its current thing -- you took the business with initial capital, and at the point it's coming, you made it $1,285 million. That's where he gets it, despite the back payments. Look, how's the repayment coming? Let me give you an example. The Tarish Grape Corps. So far, he's used a total of 135 million lira loans, and the DFI loan has paid $127 million for the loans he used. But how much does he still owe? 164 million liras. So what does that mean? That's actually pay-per-view. You pay it, you pay it, it goes up, just like the bank loans. Now, you say, "We're downloading about 50 percent of this, so be happy." Why would he be? Because since 2005, you've done a continuous capitalization of interest by adding interest to those principals that have accumulated, so you've constantly capitalized the debt and added interest to the principal. Since you added it, the troops may not actually have any debts if you remove interest, but they are now under an incredible debt, and with this plan you're making, they're still going to owe $1618 million for 12 of the 16 units. How are they gonna pay for that? You say ten or five years. But how will they pay? So many units will either stop their activities or narrow them down, or they won't be able to walk anymore, they'll be liquidated. I mean, is that what you want? Whether you still want this decontamination in agriculture or not, that's the main question, and I think it's clear that your intentions are not good. Look, the second issue of the troops, the second basic problem, is that they have enough product credits every year; I told them they couldn't survive if they couldn't afford it. How are you going to do that? Do you have an arrangement for this? In fact, at first we were a little bit pleased -- 17th, in the first instance, now the 20th article -- there was a sentence in the 20th article, in that sentence, where you predicted that the cooperatives and troops established according to the laws of the law could be funded by you, but suddenly you thought it might be dangerous. The treasure chest probably thought so, and you made a motion, so you submitted a motion to the bill that you brought in, and with this motion, you issued this sentence in the commission. In this case, how is it different from the World Bank bill? Because what did the World Bank bill say? No financial support can be provided for the cooperatives and troops from the state or other public corporate figures. We said, "The government, I think, will turn it around now." But what happened? Yeah, well, he did it, so it happened again. I mean, this optimistic expectation suddenly stuck in the air because it's a standing power that's already running by the IMF policies. So, in fact, he did. The invisible hand of the IMF, the World Bank, probably came back into play here and took that sentence out of there. Now, when it comes down to it, we're going to have motions on Article 20, so we're going to ask that the troops get a chance to finance their product. Hopefully, in this short time, during this period between the commission and the General Assembly, the minds will come to their senses, and the dissolution of the troops will not be allowed so easily. We still want to maintain optimism. If you don't do this, I mean, if you don't go fix this, the troops are really looking forward to a bad future. We're getting a lot of messages from the troops, so we can't afford these loans, and we're borrowing them every year, so now you're cutting them in half, so don't go away, five years later, we'll bring them back in doubles. Private banks, otherwise, do not allow it. Agriculture is supported in all the developed communities of the world. Food safety is top priority, and agricultural sales companies also provide state credit support for the type of mechanisms, financial support. We're still waiting for you to do that. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to deliver this message to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0113par0244	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Hakkari MP Fair Wolf. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0114par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have been promised to share our group's views on chapter one. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to point out that the sectionals aren't made right. We will express our views on Article 1 and Article 23. But let's say we're going to express our views on co-ops, some of the materials are in the first part, some are in the second part. So it's not based on science. Of course, when we talk about the bag laws, it's called the bag, the way it's supposed to be. So we're going to try to match it, and when we express our views, we're going to try to match our views on the part. Now, I'd like to address the matter of customs first. A problem stemming from border trade is currently being discussed by the Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission, the subcommittee report for the Roboski massacre is being discussed. Based on what? That's exactly what this is about. Now, we've expressed it to the Ministry before, and we've shared it in the commission as an opinion. If you really want to find a solution to illegal border trade, you need to move from a realistic point of view. This arrangement is not a cure for trouble, it's not a solution. On the one hand, the committee's relevant commission is currently carrying out a fevered work in the effort to exonerate the perpetrators of the Roboski massacre, as of this moment, we are discussing the legal arrangement that represents this problem, as of this hour. The Gate of the Gate is a transit gate. No one will go and take tomatoes from the other side of the border and consume them on the inside market, but there is an Esendere Border Gate or Habur Border Gate in Hakkari, which the government has said is open. We have opened the creek, the grape border crossings, which are not open, and then the Roboski massacre, and now, in the subcommittee report, there must be a border crossing. There is a statement, and there is a proposal, and none of them will be solved. People here don't use these border crossings for transit. They use it to participate in day-to-day business activities. A citizen in Turkey's southeastern province, a citizen in Esendere, goes to Iran on a dayly basis, buys tomatoes, buys peppers, buys oranges, brings watermelons, sells them inland markets, sells them. He's doing it for the day. But according to the current legal arrangement, is this activity legal, and is it legal for him to act like this? Obviously, it's illegal, but customs officials there have to turn a blind eye, because according to the law, after a citizen crosses the border, after three days on the other side, he can cross the border with five kilos of consumption material, and then go back to the country. Do we have a door that applies that? For example, can you apply this at the Eastern Border Gate? For example, can you apply this to our border crossings with Syria? You can't do it. What's the solution? We've expressed it before, we've established a solution here, we said, you have to build free trade zones in these areas. If you don't approach your citizen like that, you'll have to drop a bomb on him like in Roboski. The Parliament has been trying to cover up Roboski's massacre for 456 days. I've calculated the time; 10. The Clave has been on this case for 856 hours. Let's do something like this, instead of trying like this, let's figure out a radical solution. The current customs applications have been invalidated. A realist approach is required; this realist approach is not in this law, this arrangement is not in these laws. Second issue: The European Union Customs Agreement is being breached by this law, an important issue. Once Congress has voted on it, after agreeing to it, the European Union Customs Agreement will have been breached, it will have been breached in favor of an American company, and with this breach, you will have made a precedent decision. You are now officially giving up the European Union Customs Agreement. There's no need to be indirect, if you want to give up, if you reject the European Union Customs Union Agreement, you don't need to be so roundabout; you bring it to Parliament, to Parliament's agenda, this Customs Union is debated... But on top of that: the European Union Customs Agreement is a concession agreement, a market advantage agreement. You agreed, but you're disrupting this market advantage deal in favor of an international monopoly. I don't want to pronounce your name, but there's no point in choosing a way to get fighter planes and helicopters more comfortable. There's no point in bringing such an agreement in favor of an American fighter baron to the agenda of the House with such a convoluted approach; direct it, direct it. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you make a decision to set a precedent for all fields, commercial areas, international commercial areas. Customs agreements, especially customs regulations, should have been a guide to the more efficient, efficient operating of Turkish border crossings to the east and south. We suggested that the Habur border gate -- we went ten days ago -- still has the order of the truck between the Silopi and Habur; one end at the entrance of the door, and the end within the Cleopatra; about 40km away. Go, you'll see. That's because of the clumsiness at the customs gate. There's a very simple solution, you're going to turn the cable access line there into a satellite access line. People don't have to wait eight hours, nine hours, sometimes at the border crossing every day. Look, on the bridge between the border gate and the border gate of Ibrahim Halil, the Kurdistan Federal Zone, and the Habur Border Gate, citizens who will enter with the briefcase have to sit on this bridge for nine hours and ten hours at a time, unable to meet their nutritional needs nor to meet any human needs. We've brought it up so many times, it's a problem, solve this problem. We're also saying the solution, and there's a very simple solution: we're going to give up cable internet access, we're going to switch to satellite access. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The officer here, well, one day our system is locked up to make things heavy. He can say, "Our system is locked." He can keep people in line there for hours. This is the case in Esendere, and this is the case in the region of the border crossings with Syria. Why do you make our citizens suffer this torment?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0115par0256	Thank you, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0114par0257	Your import-export pens are $18 million, especially for your annual trade volume with Iraq, especially the Kurdistan Federal District. Turkey is second in all exports. It's 8.2%, but it's a potential, and you're inflicting that kind of torture on citizens. This needs to be fixed. We'll talk about the other chapters later. Thank you all.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0115par0260	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. And since there's a request on his behalf, I'm going to make a commitment by combining them. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0116par0264	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I find that I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of the proposed bill, first of all, I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the general reason and some of the articles of this bill as a whole, we see that there is a bag of legislation that regulates a lot of issues and contains a lot of issues. Anyway, Mr. Secretary has agreed that this is the case. When we look at some of the other substances, co-ops and troops also say that some changes have been made, claiming that the day will respond to its growing needs and will meet these developments, but we also see that some of the studies, which are also a company species, have been introduced into the spirit of agricultural sales co-ops and their troops, and, of course, in particular, may have been incompatible to the spirit of their troops, and may have caused a number of interference, or even to go behind the arrangement in 2000. In our view, the government's covert purpose, which brought this bill, seems to be to have a number of interventions contrary to the self-management and independence of troops and cooperatives, and to bring it into this bill with some material. Instead of bringing permanent solutions to problems, we see in this bill a number of arrangements for both saving the day and allowing cooperative and troops to be taken under the influence of government. However, I think it's important to remember what political interference in such partnerships has cost in the past, especially in economic and commercial terms. In addition to the fact that the government has caused the problems of our producers, the partners of these institutions, to remain big and continue their victims so far, years later, after a long period of time, the Law 4572 has to go to some changes and, as I've just pointed out, to regulate these changes under a bag of law. When this bill was still drafted, when it was first prepared, especially when co-operative strategy was set up, starting in 2008, when it was organised in year-on-year programmes and government execution plans of that year, all institutions, almost all institutions on the subject had reached an agreement. In the intervening period of time, we see that this agreement has been eliminated, and we have come across a bill that is more than just a treasure. Dear lawmakers, these troops, their agricultural sales co-ops and their troops, have a great deal of value in both agricultural production and exports. When we look at the first company of these troops, in 1913, in the Aegean, in Aydın, a fig cooperative is built and nuveled there. Until 1963, these cooperatives are truly co-operating and operating. From that day until 1994, they become an intermediary of all governments who have come to support them. After the removal of state support in 1994, some structural problems have unfortunately not left these troops and cooperatives alone, and in almost all of them, a serious fiscal structure disorder arises. And in the end, it's unfortunately gone away from the fabricating solidarity and unity that should really be happening. So, this was the painting that we saw when the valued lawmakers took out the law in 2000, when they took out Law 4572. See, the situation of the troops at that time was that they were in no condition to repay their debts, their financial credits were over, they were almost zeroed out, the partners' consciousness of having cooperatives was becoming increasingly weak, there were a lot of extra jobs, and the quality of education was very low, and almost all of their facilities were out of fashion, and they lacked competition. At a time like this, during the 57th Government, we issued Act 4572 and were published in the Official Gazette, June 16th, to ensure that it was taken into effect. These were one of the black holes, as they called it at the time. You know, at that time, there was serious work done in this area, as many structural, economic, and financial problems that had been left in drag for many years, and Law 4572 was prepared. In parallel with this, the World Bank's Global Appreciation Reform Project was part of this project, as well as the agricultural sales co-operative and troops as a component, and the restructuring took place. That's the basic nuance of reconstruction in everyone's language. When this law is being passed, its main goal is to create a legal framework for reorganising agricultural sales co-ops and their troops and to make the troops effectively and sustainablely independent and financially strong. That is the purpose of this law. Now, in the era of reconstruction, in 2002, until we left the government, I would like to bring them to you. For one thing, the debts of these 12 units, which were $1 billion,237 million prior to 2000, were left behind from the previous period of support and the Price Stabilisation Fund, or DFIF. On the other hand, his debt to private banks, which was $314m, was also claimed by the treasury and was largely afforded. The Unions were given the opportunity to use cheap loans from DFI sources, and the loans to buy and operate what they needed were provided from DFIF sources. But then, after handing over the government, we see that this discipline is broken, and then there's a debris like the old one. Dear lawmakers have been entered into practices that will almost destroy troops and destroy their functions in the coming period of government -- especially in the early years -- that will lead to the destruction of troops, the closure of troops, the destruction of troops, and the destruction of their partners. At this time, it was further removed from the principle of modern co-op, and despite the fact that the cost of activity and the need for financing were the most fundamental cause, a number of resource wastes were also ignored. The product-price system has not been helped to establish. Sales has not been encouraged in terms of marketing. There is no way to raise funds for the capital, which is to open up a way of appraising the disposable real estate. Unfortunately, all the good developments, capital savings, and other financial difficulties that have been restored and are being made available have been wasted. As a result, the development of corporate management capacity has been halted. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, when we look at it for today, agriculture sales co-ops and their troops also have some fundamental problems, and this process is going on and on. The most important of all, once again, there is a serious need for these troops and co-ops to go back to modeling for financing in a framework that I've just told you about, the most important disadvantage in competition is the fact that support and the need for external financing will be eliminated. Support policies for agricultural products and producers must be addressed in a holistic approach. This must not be avoided by such a lumpy measure, and it must be adopted by a complementary, facilitating approach to the policies of the troops -- their practices. Gene, one of the most important current problems of our troops is their tax problems, and these tax-related problems need to be eliminated. Dear friends, when we look at all of these wrongs that have been made, all of these wrong regulations, these policies that are going to cause structural problems to deepen, we see that many of them, the unity and cooperatives, have been exposed over the years, even following the action, is a very important issue for our troops and our cooperatives. Since the self-source problem was not resolved, the problem of self-source continued, and the development of institutional management, unfortunately, the unity and co-ops were inadequate. Once we look in this framework, once this group is cut up, piece by piece, and the applications for saving the day have to be put aside and replaced by some really serious and radical measures and initiatives, and I think the most important of them is to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of an agricultural structure to produce a fundamental and permanent solution. In this sense, the Law on Agricultural Manufacturers, the Law on Cooperatives, and the Law of Co-operatives, which we are meeting today -- not in part, but in a holistic approach -- must be addressed within the entire framework of the Agricultural Sales Co-operatives and Union Law, and together they must be legalized in the Parliament General Assembly and in relevant commissions. If this happens, if it can be done, then the support system will be revised, and eventually the co-op system will have a chance to be handled in a whole. Dear lawmakers, in this bill, there are some substances that concern agricultural sales co-ops and their unity, but I would like to bring to the attention of the government and the Supreme General Assembly a few issues concerning the 20th article that I would like to put first. For one thing, there is a lack of regulations envisioned by the 20th article, as well as a lack of a number of flaws, first of all, a complete removal of the current arrangement for the operating facilities of unity and cooperatives since its establishment and creating a serious gap in that sense. However, secondary enterprises, which are vital for the best assessment of producers' products and for solidarity, need to be established and developed. Otherwise, the sale of the products from the manufacturers would not have been able to serve their purpose because the troops would be tied up when the operation, co-op and other arrangements were combined. To address this significant gap, either the former version of Law 4572, which we are working on, or the current situation, must be maintained, or a new arrangement must be made. Again, with the arrangement of this bill, the Ministry of Customs and Trade is given a great deal of authority. Unfortunately, our troops have been transformed into a CSI status. Once again, I salute the General Assembly, saying that these regulations with the bag are inadequate and incomplete.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0117par0284	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. On behalf of him, Corrum MP Cahit Bağcı. Here you go, Mr. Bonder.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0118par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on Customs Act 437, and the Bill of Law on Changes in Some Laws and Laws. I salute your high council. Dear friends, in the first article of the bill, it is demanded that the taxation system be made healthier by the regulation of Tax Usul Act 213, and that the total amount in counterfeit documents and in order to combat the informal economy should be secured in order to prevent falsification of false documents and bill editing verbs, and that the tax office pay all tax debts from them, including at least 50,000 euros of forged documents. If there are no guarantees, this amount is intended to be taken into account and to be collected from the taxpayer, and I'd like to state that as a first issue. On the other hand, as you are well aware, the same misdemeanor is arranged in several laws. An arrangement for the resolving of this resilience and for reducing the burden of the judiciary as well as the customs administrations. In this framework, misdemeanor verbs included in Law on Trafficking No. 5607 have been transferred to Customs Law 4458, which aims to reduce the simplification and judicial burden in the legislation. The bill and the statute of limitations on customs misdemeanors are also organised to be subject to the same and parallel provisions as the statute of limitations. Similarly, if customs duties are timed out, the administrative fine for the actual removal of the original will not be collected. Due to the transfer of misdemeanor verbs in Law on Anti-Trafficking Law 5607 to the Customs Act, the sentence of administrative fines is added to Law 4458 in the verbs of the act of removing or altering the object in part or completely without the permission of the customs administration for free movement in the Antrepo or temporary storage facilities. On the other hand, the smuggling verb 5607 has been transferred to the Law Against Trafficking, which has been described in Laws 5015 and 4733 as contraband. The bill provides exemption from customs taxes, including aircraft, engines and parts of the airlines, which are imported for use in these activities of passenger and freight transport activities. Dear friends, the bill also includes regulations regarding Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Associations 4572. In this framework, it allows co-ops to be governed in accordance with the principles of co-operativeism and successful co-operative practices of the world, in accordance with the principles of modern, institutional management, to be repealed of provisions restricting the transfer of partnership shares, and to begin the process of partnership with the conditions in the model principal agreements. The procedures for the immovable purchase and sale of the troops will be organised in the sample principal contracts. The customs and Trade Ministry will also provide autonomy and fiscal independence for cooperative and troops, subject to independent control under the Turkish Trade Law, considering the number of partners and criteria such as the turnover. I wish the bill to be good for our country, for our nation's economy and for our people, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0119par0300	Thank you, Mr. Bonder. Now, let's move on to the QA section. Question and answer for 15 minutes. I'll take half for questions and half for answers. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0120par0304	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, you know in Iğdır, the customs gate is one of Turkey's most backward customs gates. We've discussed this with our Minister before, and we've submitted written, verbal questions about it, but this problem hasn't been resolved. Believe me, Turkey doesn't suit the state of the Iğdır Customs Gate. You're one step ahead of us at the Nahcivan Customs Gate. Nahcivan, Azerbaijan is a 20-year-old country, all these years of Turkey. You're saying we've skipped the age of democracy ahead, but our customs gate is even worse than the African countries. When will this problem be resolved? We expect an answer from the Minister as the entire Iğdır people.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0119par0305	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Your Grace.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0121par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, on the road routes, the oil stations are marked by low-grade diesel. We see this ibare in almost a lot of oil stations. Now, if these oil station owners don't have oil wells, where do they get cheap diesel or oil? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0122par0310	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. That's right.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0123par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Customs Directorate in the slap district has been shut down when AKP is in power. We want to know why it's closing. My second question: The largest source of income for terrorist organizations, particularly PKK terror organizations, is drug trafficking. As of 2013, how many drugs have been caught on our borders, how many have been arrested? Like drugs, guns, etcetera, are there devices in our customs that indicate various things, such as substances, items, etcetera, and so on in our laws? How many are there? Is every tool passed through these devices? I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0124par0316	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0125par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know that Gaziantep Karkamis Border Gate B is the border gate. Gaziantep is one of our largest cities of trade capacity and export capacity. Do you plan to turn Gaziantep's only border door into the Class A border gate, do you have a plan for that? My second question: Turkey-Syrian border has been turned. What measures do you intend to take to control the Turkish-Syrian border? Who are you planning on dealing with by Syria? And Mr. Secretary, I asked you yesterday, the Creek of 40s was an open road to truck traffic until 1989. And in the section you're talking about, there's a bridge being paid by Turkey, so there's no obstacle to the road. Perhaps your mind has been compromised. Over the years, there have been studies of this border crossing opening into truck traffic, but it's never been concluded. When do you intend to conclude this matter?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0126par0323	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0127par0325	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Section 640 has been re-recognised of personnel structure, structure of the Ministry. There are claims here that some injustices have been committed, as grown-ups have been victimized by being suspended. Would you consider reviewing this point, reviewing the complaints at this point? My second question is: You're making changes in Agriculture Sales Co-operatives and Union Law No. 4572, released in 2000. In the change you've made, especially in the matter of control, you're subject to independent control. Is there going to be a political intervention, political intervention in the autonomy of these cooperatives? So you'll have an intervention in the autonomy of these cooperatives as a political authority in the right to self-management of agricultural sales co-ops, their troops? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0128par0329	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0129par0331	Mr. Minister, in front of the service building of the special branch branch office of the province's police department located in Kopeeli Deepce Çınarlı neighborhood, the hole opened seven months ago and never closed, cost the lives of 10-year-old Gürkan Bozkurt, who fell into the pit. I wish immediate healing to Gürkan Bozkurt, who is fighting for his life in the hospital. I'll leave it to you to appreciate how things work in the unsupervised AKP municipalities and the modeled Kopeeli Metropolitan Municipality. Mr. Minister, even though Deepce is the largest port, the Customs Directorate located in Deepce is removed from the Deepce, and has been transferred to the Gulf district, or moved. What's your reason for shifting to the Gulf when you have the greatest port with all the volumes of operations in the deep? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain that. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0130par0334	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0131par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as you well know, there are more than nine platforms on the side of the Sarp Border Gate, which is one of the major border crossings between Turkey and Georgia, where trucks, trucks, taxis and passengers will move freely on the Georgia side. However, we do not have such detailed platforms on our side. Are there any studies on this subject? If so, where's he at? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0132par0339	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0133par0341	Mr. Minister, Balıkesir Bandırma district is a region with railways, airlines, shipping roads. Do you have any thoughts about the free zone of this area where exports are being made, where many factories are being built? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0132par0343	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0134par0345	The Minister is fired because workers are organized at the yeast-producing Pacmac facilities established in Kokeleli. Our Minister of Labor is here. Since workers were organized in Izmitte, İzmir, and also in Düzce, is this the democracy you promised in the September 12th referendum? Employers are so easily putting workers out of business and leaving them out of work. What are you planning to do?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0132par0346	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0348	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends. Mr. Oğan, yes, you mentioned the Iğdır Customs Gate, it's true. We've been talking about Crazy Aktaş Customs for years. It's interesting, this door was built years ago. So, the service units to serve customs were built at the door, but our facilities were disabled, rotten, because the neighbouring country didn't have units to provide a Georgia customs service.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0136par0351	Mr. Secretary, let's not mix it up. You're not talking about the Georgian Border Gate, you're talking about the Nahcivan Border Gate.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0352	You mean the speaker. I'm coming with, of course, from Kars. I'm going to go to Iğdır. Therefore, Georgia has renewed the Aktaş Customs Gate, and we are renewing it. I think if there's no big mistake, we'll base it on April or May. There's also been a deal made in the do-and-run model of our language Customs Gate, with our partner, GTI., a company that is part of TOBB. We'll have his foundation soon.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0137par0355	Mr. Secretary, he's been nearby for over a year. But if you give me a date, the Iğdır people will hear about it, which will be thrown out on this date.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0356	So if I give you a date, if I give you a date, if something happens, if something goes wrong one day, you'll say you didn't show up on that date. Do I make you say that? You think I'm that naive? But we'll do it. We'll do it if we say so. I'll call you too. We're gonna do this. We're going to lay the groundwork on this very soon, and we're going to do it fast. Don't worry. Just tell him I said that.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0138par0357	We've recorded this very close, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0358	Okay. Mr. Erdem, it's written on the road, it's true. Here, in this frame, our Prime Minister's Generality was published in August. We've assembled a team to provide mobile combat services. There's a blockage on the I.A.'s foot, so they have a bureaucratic understanding. I think we'll get through that, too. When the Home Office puts them on this mobile team, they'll be on the road. Well, as you say...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0139par0360	Where's it coming from?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0361	Where's it coming from? It comes from different places. If I knew his source, I'd drain it, not mess with it. But it comes from a lot of different places. So don't let me be the devil's advocate here. So those who buy very cheap fuel are legally auctioned off, and those who buy fuel are tax immune, so it can be transferred from them, it can be from somewhere else, sir, as part of the standard storage facility, it can be collected and stored somewhere. We've taken precautions on what we call number 10 oil, but it can still be available in places like this by transforming about it. And that's on our agenda, hopefully, when we get those mobile teams back on line, our fight in that field will be more effective. Mr. Right, why was the Customs Directorate in the district of Tokat removed? Now, dear friends, we have 154 customs offices across Turkey as of now. Of course, there must be economic activity that requires setting up customs managers. So if you haven't been able to access that activity, if the foreign trade activities there are far from paying for customs manager's staff's expenses, would you set up a customs department? You won't. Unfortunately, we don't want to do it at the slap either, but -- when commercial activity went down to about $10 million or dollars, we took down this customs department. But I'd like the Tokatians to move a little bit more with your contribution, or to start doing that in Tokat, which is what they're going to do when they get 200 million dollars -- let's not say -- for your sake, we'll set up a customs manager there for your sake, for your sake. I mean, I'm sorry to shut you down, but that's why. Sir, Serindağ, Gaziantep Karkamis Gate is also our renovating...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0140par0365	Mr. Serindağ is here, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0366	I turn around, I turn to you, looking round like this.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0140par0367	We're here, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0368	I haven't lost you, you won't get lost. Yeah, this door, of course, is one of the doors we're determined to renovate, but we're a little out of range right now because we might be... We've built the Nusaybin Customs Gate, there are problems in Syria, now there are no other doors. We've finished the door, there's no door. We're now turning this place into a form that will serve as a domestic customs service. We've prepared his decision. Therefore, we will do so within the framework of our program in Karkamiş, which, God willing, is a place of trust in Syria. Of course, the Syrian border crossings were turned into a bit of a rhetorical criticism, but to a certain extent, the criticism was justified. We provide the safety of our gates with efficient vehicles and our reinforced personnel, the safety of our borders. It's very balanced. If you put too much physical research into it, everyone will be uncomfortable. Why are you calling, brother? I told you. You can say it. For example, now, you've set up a bug leprous, a research commission. You put that device in your match pocket, you bring it in with a pen, there are many kinds. What would you say if we tried to search the person who came in and out of the door? We activate technical vehicles, show that sensitivity. And I want to say that because we're in good control in that sense. It's about Dereköy Gate of the 40s. We've already talked about it here yesterday. I told my friends they'd bring it back to me on video. Maybe I'll go that way soon, see the door in person if my time passes. Mr. Shandır has mentioned the savings of Article 640 as part of the Constitution. For once, when we assign our people to public institutions and institutions, when we give them a status, we take care of measurements, justice, performance, integrity, and driver's licenses. Therefore, we have our friends, who are now on the counseling staff, and if we need them, we will, of course, assign them to different departments of our ministry, in order to observe the criteria that I have expressed. Also, hopefully, when we move to the new Ministry -- our building is not available -- it's my understanding that those in the counseling staff are not the ones who sit down and wait and are in a vulnerable situation, and I'm going to divide them into groups, and I'm going to make them work in the service and jurisdiction of my Ministry throughout Turkey, and I'm going to take advantage of their savings.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0141par0373	You can't ignore the experience, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0374	I'd like to express that in particular. Yeah...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0142par0377	We're out of time. You can give it to me in writing if you want.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0135par0379	I'll give you the rest in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0142par0381	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 1. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process them in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft of the current 437 rows of legislation. It's a ten. We propose that the phrase "five years" in your paragraph be changed to "six years." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Aydın Ayan Ayayın Kazım Kurt Izzet Cetin Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the "50,000" in Article 1 of the 437 rows of the current bill be changed to "75,000." Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Lütfü Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "not less than 10 per cent than 10 per cent" in the 437th article of the current Law Bill, "not less than ten per cent to five hundred thousand liras, not less than 20 per cent for those above it." İdris Bauken Property One Fair Wolf Özdal Threer Erol Dora Sırrıyya Leader Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0143par0405	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0142par0406	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0144par0407	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0142par0408	Mr. Threeer, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0145par0410	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. What we're going to say on the motion presented on our group's behalf is that the size of sanctions in the arrangements for false documents and so on creates an important mechanism for deterrents. One of the most important problems in our country is fraud, bribery, corruption. If imaginary exports and imports and tax losses from these documents were somehow prevented, there would be huge gains for the country's economy. Of course, unfortunately, in this country, there's a trillion-year-old fuel smuggling in ships, but there's a fact that you're dead just because Van has brought a can of diesel in the village of the Robber. This reality, this fraud and border smuggling, has once carved itself into the history of Turkey with 33 bullets. Just as none of the people in Turkey has forgotten 33 bullets, we think the world will not forget the slaughter of children who put their lives on the line for the sake of a can of diesel in Ringer, Özalp, Baskale, Yüksekova or Roboski. We hope that these subcommittees, the Human Rights Commission, will go through these human rights violations, and that the mothers of all state forces, especially the Roboski massacre, of the people who have lost their lives in law enforcement, of the people who have lost their lives, of the people who have lost their lives, of the plague, will be fulfilled, and that the perpetrators of these events will be exposed, and they will be punished, and the public conscience will be relieved because today -- I will call the martyrs -- the mothers of Roboski martyrs were here, and they have made it clear to us why they were told of what they were being done, for what purpose. It may not be possible to express the fire of their heart, but I know very well that everyone with a conscience feels it. Unfortunately, while those who crossed the border or were somehow seized by law enforcement in hopes of making a trade for the sake of a can of diesel have been killed by their own lives, the businessman is being sent to public in the form of a major employer, who are in a position of political support and who have committed a trillion of bribes or corruption mechanisms for government officials. There's a shortage of numerical contradictions, actually. This motion lacks itself. Because, think about it, there are guarantees, not less than 50,000, but not less than 10 per cent for trillions, so there's a $50,000 guarantee for a 60,000-dollar facility, and there's a 10 per cent proportional disorder for a 600 million facility. And that has to be fixed, and that's what we've said in this direction. If corruption, fraud, bribery are not prevented in one country, and the people of the state's authorities are involved in this crime, and politics governs it, that state, that country will not succeed. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0146par0417	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to change the terms of the 1st article of the 437 rows of the Common Law to ▪550,000 (75,000), which is included in the 1st Article of the Charter. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0147par0425	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0146par0426	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0148par0427	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0146par0428	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0149par0429	Motive.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0146par0430	I'm reading the reason: Taxes are the most important funding of public spending. One of the major obstacles to tax justice is unregistered economic activities. Those who forge documents also cause a tax-loss fugitive by posing as an economic treatment that doesn't really exist with their verbs. The verb for falsifying documents is common in our country. Fighting false documents is mandatory, along with all legal and judicial measures, as well as deterrent administrative measures. Therefore, we find it appropriate to increase the minimum amount of compensation in terms of effective administrative measures. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st draft of the current 437 rows of legislation. It's a ten. For five years in his paragraph, we would like to change the term "also" into "also" for six years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0150par0440	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0146par0441	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0151par0442	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0146par0443	Motive? To be more deterrent. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0152par0447	Sir, we have a speaker.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0153par0448	The motive has been read.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0152par0449	No, no, we didn't ask for a reason, we have a speaker.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0154par0450	It's settled. I asked, but there was no answer. I'm just saying, just because you want a reason for him...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0155par0451	We have a speaker, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0154par0452	In accordance with these two motions, I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of the 437 Law Charter, which is currently in session, we propose and supply to be replaced as the value of the customs value. Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Enver Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Bill 437 be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken İstane Sırrıyya Leader of the Realm Erol Dora Fair Kurt Özdal Threeer Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0156par0467	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0154par0468	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0157par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0158par0470	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0154par0471	I'm reading the reason: This change was not mentioned by the audit board between the union and the co-operative bodies. This item, which will weaken the control mechanism, must be removed from the draft text. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of the 437 Law Charter, which is currently in session, we propose and supply to be replaced as the value of the customs value. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0159par0480	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0154par0481	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0160par0482	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0161par0483	Enver Erdem, Elazig...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0154par0484	Mr. Erdem, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0162par0486	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Customs Act and to the amendment of certain Laws and Laws on Article 2 of the Law bill. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, with this bill, of course, it is intended to resolve some problems. But I'd like to point out from here that our nation's real agenda, their real problems, are different problems. I brought it up yesterday regarding the problems of my constituency, Elazig Province. We've seen 45 friends of Elazig Mayor's Mayor have been punished by 45 people -- at least a year and ten months and fifteen days -- at the very least -- at this time, the government has not taken any steps, including suspension. Today, I have made a promise to inform you of the problems of Elazig, one of the most important problems of his, the work of closing the sugar factory in Elazig. Dear lawmakers, our Elazig province has been considered a center of attraction, a cultural centre, an important centre, and it has continued this way throughout the history of the republic, and until the time of your powers, it has largely maintained the importance of Elazig. Now, as of this day, unfortunately, the glory days of Elazig are gone, and the hand is left with serious problems. I'd like to say once again from this platform that Elazig is having very serious problems here, in terms of his grants, in terms of his management, in terms of central management, or the way local governments look at him. Precious lawmakers, in Elazıg, the production of sugar beets in Elazıg was around 220,000 tonnes a year in the past years -- up to your powers -- and during your rule, production was seen to drop to 200,000 tonnes in 2005, 88,000 tons in 2011, 55,000 tons in 2012, and in 2013, 40,000 tonnes this year. So here, scheduledly, Elazig is being taken step by step to shut down the sugar factory. There are reasons for that, actually. Now, the things that have been done so far to shut down the Elazig Sugar Factory: One, this privatisation process; the second, the quotas that have been implemented; third, you are saying that we should turn off the Elazig Candy Factory, which directly affects the production of sugar beets in the region, by cutting off electricity due to energy debt from the hives and Jobbags Association. Dear lawmakers, you're saying that we should close this factory with 400 workers who are directly or indirectly interested in 60,000 people, providing an important added value of 75 million liras. For God's sake, would that fit in the conscience? When you look at Elazığ's agricultural benefits, the precious lawmakers -- look, I'll give you an example here -- half of Elazığ's population from agricultural public investments in 2011 -- are getting a lot of money from the province of Bingl -- look, I'm not claiming, but there are $27m in Bingöl, which is half the population of Elazig. If it's at your mercy... if it fits your sense of justice... 418 million liras to Diyarbakır, 12 million liras to Elaziğa. What conscience would accept that, my friends? Now, this year, when Bingol was getting $27 million again...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0163par0496	Don't follow the example of Bingöl. If you follow the example of Bingol, you will be devastated.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0162par0497	Since there is half the population of Elazig, I speak of Bingol. ...the handout will benefit from an investment grant like $14 million. Where do you want to bury the hand in the darkness of what history, dear lawmakers? Have fear of God. You do it in the city; you deserve it, you don't do it. Now, you're making Elazığ a major city and costing Elazığ Municipality 75 per cent less. So I don't think you have a right to do this. Please, one of you, come out, and say to God, "This is the reason for these allowances. Let our people be at ease. Is his hand being punished? Let me be clear: as part of the Great Middle East Project, do you want to bring down Elizig? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So you can make that very clear from here. Otherwise, guys, what's the reason for all this?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0164par0503	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0165par0507	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0164par0508	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çam, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Candy, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Güler, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Öz, Mr. Akar. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article. These three motions are the same property, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the 3rd article of the current bill, 437 rows, be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Kazim Kurt Aydın Agha Ayyadın Musa Pine Süleyman Çelebi Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Duran Bulut İdris Baluken İstane Nazmi Gür Autonomous Trident Tiger Fair Wolf Does the commission agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0166par0541	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0164par0542	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0167par0543	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0164par0544	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0168par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 3 of the Law Bill 437. I salute your committee. In fact, we would be delighted if both the Commission and the government could explain why they disagree with this motion. From the beginning, for the last ten years, we've been saying that all the laws that AKP has brought here are in favor of capital, for Rant and against labor. And here's a typical example of that again. There's an arrangement about the tax exemption of Turkish Airlines transportation. Now, as we know, Turkish Airlines is not a state-owned organization with a single public representation, but a private institution, which includes private contractors, and it's given an image of a public benefit, but it's actually being created again by tax to the private sector. There's an arrangement here that's going to create a space for large aircraft companies, and it's going to run a runt, and we're totally against it. Turkish Airlines, of course, has to be supported to serve well on the national or international plane, but if you don't tax a company that the private sector shares in this way, then in society, you've seriously eliminated the sense of justice, because you're getting taxes even from a minimum-paying worker. I mean, you'll get taxes from bus operators, taxi drivers, taxi drivers, taxi drivers, but you'll exempt Turkish Airlines from a trillion-dollar purchases; there's nothing acceptable about that. In fact, all of your current economic policies are in the pockets of the government, the government's one hand in the pockets of the citizen. Today, from the electricity bill we pay to the phone bill, to the tomato we get from the grocery store, this is more than half of the consumption pens we're paying for. You're not making an arrangement for these, you're making an arrangement here to exempt Turkish Airlines from taxes. This must be explained by the government, by the Commission, and this clause must be withdrawn from the bill. Otherwise, as I said, you would have completely eliminated the sense of moral justice in society. I'd like to stress a few things in particular about the Roboski massacre, about the meeting of this bill on the same day. In a period when the subcommittee report tried to hide the perpetrators of the Roboski massacre, trying to obscure the process of the Roboski massacre, it's not really a matter of words to bring in a bill on illegal oil in a day, on illegal fuel. There's a process going on upstairs about Kurdish villagers, who are trying to cross the border to bring a can of gas for their own tuition, who have to put their own life on the line to support their own family, being overlooked by Kurdish children being torn apart by warplanes. And here you are making arrangements to enforce the so-called punishment procedures for illegal oil, illegal fuel. This is the second time you've bled a wound in the conscience of society, and it's a very bad situation. In particular, we would expect the AK PARTY group today to reject the report from the subcommittee by listening to the voice of the consciences of all lawmakers involved in the Human Rights Commission. That's what all Turkey's public, the whole world's public expected, but unfortunately, you failed this test. The fact that you tried to cover up the Roboski massacre in the next process, unfortunately, your zeal for not asking the account of the broken Kurdish villagers in Roboski, has raised concerns. I hope you will quickly turn this wrong, and carry out a process that will ease the public's conscience about Roboski. In this regard, the practice of the Parliament's commission of human rights, which has been established in history, will be referred to as a black spot, which will be associated with this crime. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0169par0557	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0170par0560	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made on the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. This third article is one of the most negative clauses of the bill, valued lawmakers. As of July 1, 2010, airlines, aircraft, engines, and parts of them are exempted from customs duties, including VAT and VAT, which are imported for use in these activities. Of course, first of all, the question we're curious about is how many planes will be bought, and more than 100 planes will be bought. They're priced, too. How much customs taxes and taxes does the government give up? Here, Mr. Secretary must explain it and explain it. In this regard, of course, we need to open a parentheses, dear friends. For ten years, the Justice and Development Party governments have imposed all indirect taxes, no tax exemptions and exceptions from farmers, workers, and tradesmen in favor of production. Over and over again, the OTV has rejected all proposals and legal proposals regarding diesel, medicine, fertilizer, seeds, and the exceptions of VAT, but this kind of, for a number of commercial and capital, can make their exemptions and incentives to certain minority groups without hesitation. Indeed, this attitude is a reproach, dear friends. In the commission, the Turkish Airways chartered Airbus and Boeing aircraft for ten years after the end of this period, the Turkish Airlines would damage its flights, so Turkish Airlines would be on the way to buy these planes, but were scheduled to receive zero customs tax for one of these brands until 2010. These explanations, unfortunately, reveal certain doubts and facts. First, Turkish Airlines has been damaged by ten years of chartered aircraft. This is clearly confessed. Secondly, a company in a country that is not a member of the customs union and a company in a country that is a member of the customs union are being equalised. In this case, the customs union has no meaning. Now, we'll get back to that. Third, the special company is denied a substantial amount of budget revenue by exclusion of customs tax to Turkish Airlines. It also goes against the logic of privatisation. Why are Turkish Airlines specialized, dear friends? It'll work more rationally, make a profit. The fourth, with this arrangement, there is no unjust competition being eliminated, but it leads to unfair competition. The tongue is worth the aching tooth. There's a saying. This time the pain threatens not the female, but all health. According to this, we also need to contact the economic and diplomatic dimensions of this provision, but we don't have enough time. In the past few days, Economy Minister Mr. Zafer said that since 1995, Turkey has been left in a serious unfair competition with the Customs Union Agreement, and that if it continues like this, it will be put on the table. I invite the government to discuss the matter of the customs union, with all due respect.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0171par0573	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Who will speak from the Republican People's Party Group?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0172par0575	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0171par0576	Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0173par0578	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Of course, despite the three opposition parties' agreement on the removal of this third clause, despite talks made by the Plan and Budget Commission on this issue, the government insists on bringing an exemption, but the people who need to be granted basic exemption do not get immunity. Today, 305 people who have been fired in Turkish Airlines for three hundred and three days are still on the street. There's not a single step to address their problem. 305 people have been standing outside your door for three hundred and three days, despite your judgment. It has been discussed earlier, with my highly valued friends, members of parliament, Group Deputy Chairman Akif Hamzaçebi, Mevlüt Aslanoglu, Musa Çam, Aydın Ayyadın, I, Erdogan Land met with Erdogan, and were told that if these talks were to come out of the judiciary, these people would be put to work immediately. Despite the verdict, despite the fact that your expert has proven that 305 of our friends are innocent, there are still 305 people crawling in there and being kept in the cold, winter, summer at the airport gate. Now, I'm warning you from here, I'm calling in the Minister of Labor -- he was just here -- on duty. The discrepancy has been held in the air business and no agreement between the HAVA-HIS Union and the airline has been reached. There's a week's share, and the AVA-HIS Union has to hang the strike decision. When the strike decisions are hung in the air business, there are serious problems with the reservations and delays begin. Those of you who are thinking of Turkish Airlines... in order to end this cancellation first, today, there is no compromise. I once again express the sensitivity of the union called Turkish Airlines from this stand. Today, they could have put up that ad, they didn't hang it, they didn't hang it so the Turkish Airlines wouldn't get hurt, but they also called for a call: after a week, a strike notice will be hung, maybe a strike vote, and then a strike. Now, it's the job of ministers to participate in this process as a compromiser. First, let those who think about the airline solve the problem of those 305 people who have worked on airlines in this sense, who have contributed to moving their airlines to this point. Another issue, my dear friends, is the operation that was conducted today at the DİSK's General-İSK trade union and the HAK-İSK-İSK-İSK-İSK Union. I'd like to say on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group that we reject all kinds of terror, violence, wherever it comes from and wherever it comes from. But this operation is against DİSK. Why is he against DİSK? Because he's not AKP, he's not AKP's ally. The partisans are protected, the others are silenced. It's a silence operation like this. The doors were broken, the locks were cut off one by one, and the unions were searched with oppression, and the reason is that we watch from the air, through these neighborhoods, through these citizens. That's why we're searching here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's based on an unrealistic motive. So, in the interest of removing these suppressions, I say we do business in order to solve these 305 people's problems. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0174par0588	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0175par0589	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0174par0590	I submit three motions of the same nature to your votes, and I will seek the sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0176par0592	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0177par0593	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0174par0594	I don't see enough of a decision here.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0176par0595	Mr. President, do it with an electronic device.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit03spe0174par0596	It's 20 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the three motions given on the 3rd article of the Law Bill 437 rows. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted. Now, we'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "in 30 days" in the second joke of Article 177 of Code 4458, which is envisioned to be replaced with Article 437 of the 437 Numbered Bill, shall be changed to "in 45 days." İdris Baluken İstane Nazmi Gür Fair Wolf Özdal Threer Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0178par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0021	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0179par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0023	There's no one to talk to. The extension of a 30-day waiting period on the waiting period of the returns to the court is important for victims that may arise. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: In Article 5 of the proposed Bill, we propose and propose that the statement be changed into terms of transactions. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ali Serindağ Musa Çam Bült Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Customs Law number 1/746, under Article 5 of the Law and Law Act, "The joke below" shall be replaced as "the jokes have been added" and the article referred to as "5." In the liquidation procedures under this Law, the provisions of State Contraction Law No. 2886 dated 8/9/1983 do not apply and the procedures and principles related to it are determined by regulations." We'll supply and offer to add his joke. Mustafa Elitaş Oya Eronat Mehmet Kabbat Hilmi Bilgin İsmail Kashdemir Osman Love Look Does the commission agree with this motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0180par0047	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0048	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0181par0049	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0182par0050	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0051	I'm reading the reason: The provisions of State Contraction Act 8/9/1983, issued in connection with the sighting of general public services, purchase, service, construction, rent, trampa, have determined the procedures and foundations for the same rights and transport of property. According to Customs Act 4458, the procedures and foundations for liquidation are regulated and the liquidation of the disposable property is carried out by tender or retail sales, allocation and destruction. In accordance with the Customs Act, the nature of the procedure and the basis for the sale of the goods, which must be carried out in the sale of the property that has been liquidated, is not the sale of the goods that have been obtained using treasure resources, but the sale of the goods that must be carried out without a price being paid for the treasure. Because, according to the Customs Act, the liquidation is not only a tender sale, but also an allocation and destruction. Under the provisions of the State Contraction Act, provisions such as the official newspaper announcement of the tender from at least 10 days ago, not being sold at a low price could result in delays in liquidation transactions, even liquidating them. For this reason, a tender under the Customs Law must be made and sold to ensure that the liquidation process is excluded from the State Contraction Act. The clause added joke aims to quickly and effectively carry out the liquidation process of the property to be auctioned off by the Ministry of Customs and Trade. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In Article 5 of the proposed Bill, we propose and propose that the statement be changed into terms of transactions. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0183par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0062	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0184par0063	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0174par0064	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0185par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, a joke has been added to the 180th article of the Customs Law with the 5th article of the Law Bill 437 rows. I'm here to welcome you to our motion to make a change in this joke. I salute you all. My dear friends, first and foremost, this bill that we're discussing has been passed by the Plan and Budget Commission on Article 91. We agreed to another 60-point bill yesterday. This, I don't know, is the number of laws we've agreed to this semester, but unfortunately, we've accepted hundreds of such articles now and again, very important items of hundreds of laws. Of course, the fact that we often replace them with the bag of laws violates the integrity of the law. We don't know what we're doing, we're just being slaves to bureaucracy, we're making the laws the bureaucracy wants, we're breaking the integrity of the law. It's not right to change the law so often, folks. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the legislature and is also the control body. We don't do inspections -- you know, the Court reports didn't show up this year -- we hardly do any inspections, but we keep making changes in the law. As a result of the changes in the law, as a result of the bag of laws -- for example, yesterday, the 60-point bag of legislation that we adopted in the Plan and Budget Commission, was related to 23-24 different laws -- its integrity is breaking down, it's derailing, it's causing a lot of trouble. In fact, there's something about this: since Turkey has passed law amendments from the Grand National Assembly, the bureaucracy is constantly offering changes in the law to ensure itself, or the ministers are offering to ensure themselves. In fact, they bring in some changes that can be made with the regulation, some changes that can be arranged with the notification, and they bring them to us by law, and we pass them on because they're a tool, not too controversial. In fact, a logic like this is wrong, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shouldn't accept it. We need to be more careful about this. I'm afraid we've just become a place that rules bureaucracy and accepts their changes. Let's get back to the point. I just mentioned, we're adding a joke to the 180th article of this Customs Law with a motion that was just adopted. According to this, we're bringing in the removal of the property that was destroyed in customs, without law enforcement, according to Law 2886. Now, dear friends, as I recall, the Customs Law has been in effect since 1999, and the State Contraction Act has been in effect since 83, so there have been both laws for years. Even though there are both laws, the liquidation process is running smoothly. If Mr. Secretary says we don't already apply the Customs Law. As we already know, it has a different policy. According to the Customs Law, we do so in our own way. There is no need for such a change. No, there's a need for that kind of change. But there's been this law for 30 years, and there are these laws; they're being processed according to these laws, everything that's been created is going well, there's no problem. Anyway, he didn't show up at the Commission when the bag was being drafted, and now there's no way to figure out why he came all of a sudden. So, yeah, there's a law, so let's take it out. Now, if this were in the Commission, we'd ask: how much liquidation per year, how much of this kind of product is being sold, what is it? What's all this about, anyway? Who can't be sold? Any questions? We'd look into it in detail, and then we'd break that law, and now it's here all of a sudden. I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to argue about it... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We agreed, and we probably made a mistake. I wish we could make more careful, better laws. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0186par0078	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0187par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0186par0080	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0187par0081	Sir, I'd like to present a matter to the government and the General Assembly. Mr. Kusoglu has announced that the motion of the Justice and Development Party for this clause has been under way since 1983. He says, "Do not be subject to the provisions of the Law of Resolvement." That's not true, sir. Dear lawmakers, there is a law that has been enforced in this manner for thirty years. The reason for the motion is that this object is the property of a citizen, so it does not have to be subject to the Law of Contraction. On the contrary, when it is the property of a citizen, it is necessary to implement the provisions of the Law of Contracts more carefully, so that the law of a citizen should be a more competitive tender. In that case, if this motion is accepted, we will ignore the citizen's law, and the administration will have the opportunity to liquidate it the way it wants. FOR 30 years, TAPS has been liquidating it. If there's stuff that needs to be destroyed, he's been liquidating it for 30 years. None of these are the issues of which the Law on Contraction is excluded. And yet I don't understand the logic of this motion being brought in. I don't think it's right, the ruling party motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0188par0085	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0189par0087	Mr. President, dear friends, you know, we're doing the liquidation of the fuel with this particular draft, with this item. So illegal fuel will be first given to private administrations, property managers, institutions that need it. There's been a lot of capture, no need for public enterprises, and it's been added to speed up their sale.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0190par0088	Make an open bid, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0189par0089	In general, the liquidation of the illegal or abandoned fuel product will be made by the allocation of public enterprises.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0191par0090	But Mr. Secretary, the motion...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0192par0091	It's not just fuel, it's all the stuff in the SECNAV, Mr. Secretary. I mean, think about it, sir, there's been a system that's been running smoothly for 30 years.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0189par0092	I mean, it's true, it's the right arrangement. We think that we should not pay for the goods found in the warehouses, we should not pay the rent fee, and our deposits are filling up, these processes take too long, we should shorten them.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0193par0093	Mr. Secretary, there are urgent tenders in 2886, which could be used, but now that it's illegal, it has no legal basis. The administration will make the tender and arrange it.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0189par0094	No. See, the Court also has an opinion on this arrangement that this might happen.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0193par0095	Let the Court make the law. That's not true.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0189par0096	They've been made and accepted by consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0194par0098	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the earlier motion, I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th draft law of the current 437 rows. We would like to submit the statement to a public institution and to other institutions, which are a public institution, by applying its tasks by applying them in comparison. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Kazim Kurt Aydın Agha Ayadın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 8th article of the current Law Bill, 437 rows, be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0195par0119	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0194par0120	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0196par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0194par0122	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0197par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, our friends here have said that this is a substance that they bring here on reasonable grounds, but it's been a little out of hand, so we've made arrangements for five or six different institutions in the last two or three years, even before we've gone through the last five years of building-and-work. So what's done in this article is we're going to do some of the things that have been done before, and we're going to do it again before the time comes, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again, and we're going to do it again. Now, of course, there's a structural problem here, beyond who's being given the job, the value portion, Mr. Secretary's evaluation commission, whatever it is that's being authorized. Dear friends, each ministry has its own model of do-and-work. In the last few weeks of health, we've accepted the do-restraint, and now we've given you a special authority on customs, on national education, on the DSI, and on the other hand, there's the Ministry of Culture, and there's him in this law. I mean, I don't understand what it's like to be an economist.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0198par0128	He's not here.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0197par0129	No, no, it's coming, it's all coming, so I'm telling you, it's all coming from behind.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0198par0130	The Ministry of Culture isn't here.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0197par0131	He's on his way, and I'll say it for him, Mr. Demiröz, because our next commissioner is of Planning origin, that's why I said I'd bring him there. Dear friends, Mr. Minister, here we have our Minister, here we have our Deputy Prime Minister, here we have Mr. Babacana, and now we have one more law-designation coming up. They're all here because they're in charge of the co-ordination of the economy...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0199par0133	The Minister of Urbanism is here.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0197par0134	We're not looking at him, he's the construction minister, so he's doing it. He's getting the bids, he's making the bids. Friends, we said there's a framework draft of the framework framework for the structure -- look, there are laws in Turkey -- the State Planning Agency has been waiting since 2007 -- God rest his soul -- at the Ministry of Development. It's hard to keep track of this, and it's hard to keep an inventory, if each of us comes along and adds something like this to these laws. This model has been envisioned for investments in matters that exceed a certain cost and bring burden to the public. Come on, we said it should be a coordination unit, which is already in the Ministry of Development, where there's the Department of Public Special Partnership. Now, everyone's in charge of something that requires this kind of expertise. The purpose of the work is one thing, and it's another thing to do it in line with purpose, so we have problems with methods and vehicles. So we thought we'd make the most of it. We say it every time, but it doesn't work. What's supposed to happen -- we criticize this model, we accept it, we don't, it's a different issue, but -- when you do that, you have to draw a general framework of a four-headed construction-business, a public-private cooperation model, and you have to make a general law, you have to determine the powers. What do we do with the rest of them? You're authorizing the Council of Ministers. What? Is there a High Planning Board? I do. Do they give you these powers? It does. You'll also authorize the details, you'll go to the relevant ministry, you'll come to the High Planning Board, you'll come to the Council of Ministers, you'll take the authority, you'll do it. No, let's write that down. Why? There'll be an investigation tomorrow, we'll go to the Supreme Court. I don't understand, so you've changed the verdict, and you're still afraid. What's going on? So that's where we write the stuff that we don't write in the regulations, dear friends. Please... We've got the law-making business on its feet, Mr. Secretary. I mean, we've written down everything that we wouldn't even write in the regulation. So, on this occasion -- our esteemed ministers are here; our executive minister is here, and Mr. Babacan, who is in charge of coordination, is here -- come, take a look at this. There's one on the shelf, Mr. Secretary. Tell your friends at the Council of Ministers -- Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz will bring you the bill -- take the draft, make it a bill, and we'll put it all in one frame, and we'll find out where it is. If we don't do this, there'll be others tomorrow. Now, I'm telling you, guys, he's not here yet. He says. I know he didn't show up, but he's in line, and he's gonna get busted, and we just gave him our opposition. And tomorrow, Mr. President, to the morning edition... do you even have it? Mr. Vedat says: "It's been printed, it's come into my hand." He says, "I think it's coming too." So we need to put this in a frame, both in terms of the law-making technique and in terms of setting priorities. It's supposed to be a co-ordinator organization above every department... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to coordinate with the Ministry of Finance with the Treasury. It's already in the Ministry of Development. I'd like to take this opportunity to bring this back to your attention. It's out of the question, but he says it's a win-win if we can turn it around or turn it around.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0200par0141	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th draft law of the current 437 rows. We would like to submit the statement to a public institution and to other institutions, which are a public institution, by applying its tasks by applying them in comparison. Mehmet Candy (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0201par0148	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0200par0149	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0202par0150	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0200par0151	Mr. Sugar, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0203par0152	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, before I begin my words, I salute you all. Article 8 of the bill stipulates that the customs doors given the right to operate under the do-and-run model will be extended again for no more than 30 years after the duration of its operating period is over. If the deadlines are over, the extension means giving them the right to operate indefinitely, meaning the removal of the part of the environment. So, the do-and-do model is made into a do-do-do-do-do. A make-and-run model for the security of the customs gates must be conditioned on the partnership of a public institution or organisation. My fellow lawmakers, the longest border in Turkey, our border with Syria, unfortunately, is in a very difficult position. There's no telling who's going through these doors, who's going through the border, what's going through them. This lack of control, dangerous, criminal, ulterior motive is also causing people to walk into our country. Many Syrian refugees have been charged with fires, injury, smuggling, perjury, using false documents, and theft. The defendants are wanted with an official newspaper announcement because the courts can't report their verdicts to refugees. The Syrian crimes have increased traffic between the Yayladağ Criminal Court of Peace and the Official Gazette. The border crossings on the Syrian side are now in the hands of the opposition. During the war, opponents organise their illegal business through these gates to convert government property into money. If necessary measures are not taken on the Syrian side, there is no way to prevent smuggling. Mr. Secretary, yesterday you made a statement at the General Assembly that you said: "No vehicle with Turkish plates can enter Syria because of security, Turkish citizen cannot enter Syria." (Then, Mr. Minister, you must explain to us and to the public the transition of Laz Ziya, suspect of Sarai Sierra, who joined the Free Syrian Army to fight the Assad forces. See what the father of Rizeli Burak said: "My son went to Syria without a passport before, and was caught on his return, and he was punished for not having a passport. Three months ago, my son came back and stayed for about five days. I begged him not to go. My son has been persecuted there, his children are being killed by Syrian soldiers. I can't watch them. He left again, saying, "I can't. He didn't have a passport again." How did my son get across the border? Doesn't this government have military police on the border? Are our borders the inn? This government must answer for it. Another issue is the transit approval of drivers who deliver oil between Turkey and Northern Iraq. These drivers are required to have a criminal record for clearance. Although 98 per cent of the driver's business has no criminal record, some of the respondents have not been approved for four or five months. The drivers, who received the approval, learned that their approval would be revoked as they would pass through customs. Mr. Secretary, I have a list of 200 drivers for these, the Gaziantep and the Urban driver. They're being asked for a criminal record, and when they pass through with these records, unfortunately, they're being forced to do so again and again and again and again. We must ask you to take precautions on this. There is no explanation as to why drivers have been kept waiting for months or why transit approval has been cancelled. This is a serious problem for the region's people, whose livelihood is provided by shipping and driving, and needs to be resolved immediately. He wishes you'd do your best in this matter, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0204par0160	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of Law Bill 437 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Alim Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0205par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0204par0172	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0206par0173	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0204par0174	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0207par0175	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on the 9th Amendment in Article 9 of the Law on the Amendment to Customs Act 437, which is currently under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council. Our motion requires that this clause be removed from the draft text. The reason is this: this article identifies those who can be assistant customs advisors in Customs Law 27/10/999 and 4458, and includes provisions concerning those who are entitled to serve as customs advisors among them. With this change, for example, three years in the presence of a customs consultant for the purpose of an internship, among those who want to be an assistant customs consultant. It reduces the requirement to one year. So, we're predicting that this sentence stays exactly right, so that the sentence of three years can be maintained with the offer of extraction. On the other hand, in the joke on Article 228 of the Article 228 about those who will be entitled to serve as customs advisors, he says:...the bill is reduced to two years, including three years of customs and customs legislation and customs, and those who have succeeded in the examination covering business and financial issues. So you've already earned two years by reducing your three-year internship to one year, and you're reducing the time predicted to grow from here to here by reducing these three years to two years. Now, on the one hand, in the country where smuggling runs, where the terrorist organization feeds on smuggling, if you bring down the terms of the people you need to raise, you have no chance of fighting it. So you're going to make people a customs consultant under the rules that have been enforced a year ago, and you're going to reduce the time required for this to grow by two years, and you're expecting qualified personnel from here, and you're thinking about raising the guy who's going to fight the fugitives in customs. Mr. Minister, this won't happen, so we think it would be a good change to have this 9th article removed from the draft text. Otherwise, Turkey loses, with an arrangement where people who don't know what they're doing, who don't have the qualifications for interviews, especially in recent years, are a customs consultant or an assistant customs consultant, we lose. We think it would be more beneficial for the country to have this changed and to maintain its former state. On this occasion, this bill, which should include arrangements for the prevention of revenues made by the terrorist organisation, especially by cigarettes, oil and other trafficking, is unfortunately a bill that lacks these regulations -- I can't say but I can't stay behind -- is getting lighter by this kind of arrangement, which aims to open new jobs for those close to us. For him, it would be more appropriate that such arrangements should not be included in the bill, which will push the grown-up staff into morale, and, unfortunately, will be incomplete in raising the qualified employee he needs. I look forward to your support in our motion with these feelings and thoughts, and once again I salute you all by stressing that this clause must be removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0208par0183	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. There is a motion on the 10th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added to Article 10 of the current Law Bill 437 rows. Three. According to this law, punishments in other laws do not apply. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Lütfü Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0209par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0208par0196	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0210par0197	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0208par0198	Mr. Turkkan, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0211par0200	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, we had some reservations in the 10th article in the Law of Customs and Anti-Trafficking Law, in order to make amends for some previous setbacks. I also interviewed the Minister and his bureaucrats yesterday. Article 10 states that administrative sanctions are carried out during the period of trial and statute of limitations in the Turkish Penal Code, as long as there is a sentence related to a verb that requires the execution of the verb, and there is a criminal trial due to the longer statute of limitations. We have explained some of our reservations to the bureaucrats here. And the bureaucrats convinced us of their explanations. Thus, our request for this motion was not approved, but we felt that our request could be corrected later by certain setbacks that would arise in time. I'd like to move on to something else today. I went to Sincan Prison today. In Sincan Prison, I visited Mr. Engin Alan, our Istanbul MP. You know, Mr. Secretary, you're a former lawyer, you've been in and out of prison a lot. I took off my belt, my shoes, my watch, all of it. I'm a congressman here with 115 thousand votes in this country. When I go to prison, my government doesn't trust me, he robs me like a banana, and then I go in. I put my finger on it, they make eye signals, etcetera, and then I see him. They said all of this was in effect with a general order issued by the Justice Department. I wonder if you've started expeditions from here to the Imralı, the ferry expeditions, I don't know if you're going to participate in the next period, do you? Lawmakers who go there... they tell us: "Take off this belt, take off your shoe, go barefoot." And they insist: "Do you have SIM cards on you?" What do you mean, you got a SIM card? If there's anyone to suspect, you'll be looking at the BDP delegation. They say, "We even went in on the phone, so we could put in a wire." We've never been called. So, what's our sin? Is it our sin to stand in opposition to the division of this country? Is it our sin to be Turks?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0212par0206	It's your sin to be a Turk!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0211par0207	It's a pain in the ass to get a taste for something like that. The Justice Department needs to rethink the arrangement on this matter. You can't just rob people's deputies like bananas and put them in jail. There's no such thing! If you want to go to Imralı, walk away. If you want to visit your MP, undress like a banana. I suppose that's the kind of thing you don't get to do with lawmakers. You are the chosen guardians of this nation. This kind of practice is getting to me. And the man I'm going to is a congressman. I'd like the Justice Department to make the necessary arrangements on this matter immediately.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0213par0209	Let's do it with a do-over!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0211par0210	Look, I don't see much of a sense of humor in this business, but I find that the treatment is very inhumane, and I see that it's not very appropriate for the position we're in. You guys, look, the day after tomorrow, you're going to visit someone, too. Take off your shoe, take off your belt, take off your watch, do you have a SIM card on you? They treat the public defender like a man who walks in here and commits a crime. Besides, we're the guys who know about prisons, so we're from there, so we know how to get in, and we know how to get out. Someday, when I come to visit you, I don't want to see any of this. I'd like you to take precautions on that right now. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0214par0214	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 437 which is currently in session, the 12th Amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures shall be adopted. Article 1. With the lines of his joke (a) and (c). In addition to changing its joke (a) and (b) the customs taxes of the designated value (e.g. Article 4. The joke is that the first joke (a) and (c) be handed over to the item specified in the dams, its property is decided to be transferred to the public, and its property is returned or re-exported. Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayayın Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 145 of Customs Act No. 4458, which has been replaced by Article 12 of the Law and Law Act. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special İsmail Kashdemir Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Sevim Savarer ▪5. Two times more administrative fines will be fined if the property brought to the Turkish Customs Area and not included in the transit regime statement determines that it is a markedly different kind of object than the reported one. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 12 of the current Law Bill 437 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Necati Özensoy Ahmet Duran Bulut Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0215par0241	We don't agree with the last reading, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0214par0242	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0216par0243	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0214par0244	Mr. Özensoy, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0217par0246	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 12th amendment of the proposed bill. I salute you all. The bill eliminates the principle of justice in punishment. In addition to other verbs in the Customs Act, it has been noted that the charges passed to Customs Law have eliminated the principle of justice, and a logic of punishment in terms of violations within Customs Law 4458 has been taken into account. This is caused by the sanctions here in the Anti-Trafficking Act, or the strict transfer of customs to the Law. In contrast, sanctions in terms of misdeeds in the Customs Law were in the form of a strict tax-shaped punishment for the victim's irregularities. In the current case of the Customs Law, the concept of value is regulated in the form of the customs taxes, so this is the same in sanctions, since it is passed as it is in the Anti-Trafficking Law. It's causing trouble. The 12th article of the bill poses a serious potential danger to the customs area and to foreign trade counselors who operate here. The 12th article of the bill is referred to by the Customs Law, part of the act of misdemeanor in Article 3 of the Anti-Trafficking Law. However, the verbs were not transmitted exactly when this transaction was made, and the expression style has also been changed. The 12th article of the bill included the following expression, which was not included in the Anti-Trafficking Act, added at the beginning of the verb "criminal act" in the 12th article of the bill. As a result of the examination and inspection of the property subject to the free movement entry regime; In addition to customs taxes of goods, twice the amount of the customs value of goods, and twice the amount of the amount of property that the Law Against Traffics (11) is issued in the third report of Article of Article III (11) of the Law on Trafficting (11), if it is subject to the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right or the right. As you can see, the verb referred to in the Anti-Trafficking Act, which is referred to as "importing" in the draft -- in the Customs Act -- was translated into the form of control after the examination and inspection surrender. As the verb is transferred to the Customs Law, it will be sufficient to determine the implementation of the sanction, along with the added above. However, if the testimony was taken exactly from the Anti-Trafficking Act, it would not be punished. The principle is that there will be no punishment for the verbs that remain under customs administration's control during the declaration period. Since the intentional element cannot be searched in this regard, the first joke (c) of the Law (e.g. the first article) of the Law (e.g. the first article of the Law) for the owners and the customs advisers who have made a statement on their behalf will result in irreparable consequences. The Customs Law is not looking for an element of intent in terms of the Law of Misdemeanor. In addition, there is no search for the element of intent in the anti-trafficking implementation of crimes, including the verb. Once removed from the Customs Law, there will be no search for the caste element, and the outcome will be sufficient for sanctioning. The application found that the cases were largely against the administration because the Anti-Trafficking Law was sought for the element of intent in terms of misdeeds. As fixed by experience, customs authorities also determine tariff positions for the same item. From time to time, tens of thousands of pens can be made mistakes in customs tariff positions. It's always possible to make this type of indiscriminate error. Therefore, such a situation will be subject to separate sanctions for both the customs adviser and the importer who makes the declaration. Since these substances are so troubling, we demand that this clause be removed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0218par0254	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 145 of Customs Act No. 4458, which has been replaced by Article 12 of the Law and Law Act. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends ▪5. Two times more administrative fines will be fined if Turkish Customs Area determines that non-transmitting items brought into transit regime declarations are clearly property of different sex than the one reported, twice the customs value of a different object. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0219par0262	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0218par0263	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0220par0264	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0221par0265	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0218par0266	Motive... Reason: The item brought from outside the Turkish Customs Area is either subject to a transit regime declaration to be transferred to internal customs or taken out of the other border crossing. Under the control of the statement made concerning this item, it is ordered that the violation be imposed on administrative sanctions in case it is clearly different from the property declared. The joke was added in order to receive twice as much administrative fine as the property's customs value. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 437 which is currently in session, the 12th Amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures shall be adopted. Article 1. With the lines of his joke (a) and (c). In addition to changing its joke (a) and (b) the customs taxes of the designated value (e.g. Article 4. The joke is that the first joke (a) and (c) be handed over to the item specified in the dams, its property is decided to be transferred to the public, and its property is returned or re-exported. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0222par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0218par0275	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0223par0276	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0218par0277	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0224par0279	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 12th Amendment to Customs Act 437, and to amendments to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. Dear friends, the legalisation process is written in our Constitution, and in the Council of Parliament. The legalisation process shows the quality of democracy. If our democracy is quality, our legislation will be quality. Now, we've just been brought up again on an extremely important matter of additional substance abuse. Many of the MPs here, including myself, have been subjected to an additional clause in an extremely important matter, almost unreported. The supplemental contract was to eliminate the sale of goods from customs from the scope of State Contraction Law 2886. Dear friends, I'm afraid it's become a habit to smuggle it out of our public auction system and do it in the middle of the night with pirate proposals. It's extremely dangerous, extremely wrong, extremely incomplete. Look, our public tender system has two legs: the first foot is the foot that requires the state to spend money, which is the leg that requires us to go out of the budget, which is organised by Public Contraction Law 4734. Another foot is the foot that will bring revenue to the state, which is regulated by Law 2886, the Old State Contraction Law. In both laws, he set these up to set up tenders, how to set up commissions, how to open bids, how to open contracts, and to set up a law-making, economic, efficient, efficient, and legal tender system. Now, when you take it out of the public auction system, it creates problems in three or four ways. First, it creates a constitutional problem because now, there is no legal basis for the administration's procedure, which is against the rule of law. The more administrative problem is that the separation of tasks comes from an international rule called management. In fact, we parliamentarians know another mode of separation from these tasks as a principle of separation of powers. What is the principle of separation of forces? It's a balance and brake mechanism, which means the same organ doesn't live, the same organ doesn't judge, the same organ doesn't operate. It's the only center where it's going to hurt democracy. It's the same with management, it's the same with any company. For example, it's given to people who sign a payment order in a company and who pay it. What's the point of that? Not allowing abuse by gathering authority in one person. Now, when we remove it from Law 2886, that authority will be passed to the Ministry by regulations. Now, this ministry will make both the tender and the arrangement for the tender. I'm not saying it's for Mr. Secretary, but imagine that a malicious minister -- about $1 billion in fuel caught -- is doing the sale of this contract according to regulations, and at the time, there's a problem with the tender, and the problem is that it should be legal, and he's going to be judged by a clause in accordance with regulations. And since the Minister has the authority to do the regulations? That minister may have a chance to change the regulations that he himself will be tried for. Now, you want to make a quick tender, but fast management also has to be legal. Or democracy can't control where this fast administration is going, our people can't control it. Now, this is a change that may seem innocent in these changes, but when was this made? The 4+4+4 Education Act was made as it passed. What we were saying at 4+4+4 is -- it makes a lot of difference according to guesses -- in ten years, there's going to be 20 to 75 billion dollars. Is there a legal basis for this? Tablets to buy, electronic boards to buy. There's no legal basis for this. For example, the Urban Transformation Bill has passed. It's said to create $400 billion worth of economic value in total, but Mr. Secretary submitted a motion in the middle of the night, turning all tenders into a non-advised negotiation process, into a 21/B clause. Now, from all sides, we're getting these complaints from the corporations. I'm not saying the complaint's coming. I'm not saying he's right. They say, "Sir, the bargain-style tenders are being sold." We have received a complaint, which is wrong, but we have been warned in time, and don't do it, friends, do it with a clear tender, declare it, for the benefit of the state, for the benefit of the people." We said, "This is for the benefit of the people." But unfortunately, it was not accepted. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0225par0288	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0226par0289	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit04spe0225par0290	I will, sir. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0225par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu and his friends voted on Article 12 of the Law Bill 437. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the 12th article to your votes in accordance with the earlier motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 14 of the current 437 rows of the Bill be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0227par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0225par0016	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0228par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0225par0018	Mr. Dedeoglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0229par0020	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the amendment proposal on Article 14 of the Law on Amendments to Customs Act 437 and Some Laws and Laws. I hereby salute your high council. Congressmans, this bag of legislation changes the Law on Agriculture Sales Co-ops and Associations. The government plans to redesign the law on agricultural sales co-ops and troops, again, in accordance with IMF policies. With this arrangement, the government, which plans to strengthen its so-called agricultural sales co-operation and unity, will make these institutions even weaker in building and functioning. Agriculture sales co-ops and troops were founded to protect the producer's interests and support development. Agricultural sales co-ops and troops gathered producers under one roof to support small-income producers and contribute to the economy. Co-operatives and units have also done important services in our country to ensure price stability and assess the producer's income. Until the 2000s, it was used as a tool for buying agricultural sales co-ops and troops for state support. In addition, state intervention has been brought in for cooperatives and troops. This structure has forced agricultural sales co-ops and their troops to respond to the manufacturer's demands. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this law is now requested to be reorganised under the European Union and IMF policies. The change planned to be made in Law 4572 is contrary to the functioning of a company of cooperatives and agricultural sales co-ops and their troops. In this case, the structure of agricultural sales co-ops and their troops will be open to external interference and abuse. With this bill, the management of the cooperatives is clearly sought by the government. These political interventions do no good to anyone, on the contrary, to harm these institutions and producers. The current law, which is of great importance, cannot be handed over except in the event that they merge with another cooperative or unit. The decision appears to be unguarded in the bill. In the main contract, the provisions for the handover were not made clear in the draft draft draft by the government. In the draft bill, there are uncertainties about the age of the partnership's share. The current arrangement for operating facilities owned by the Union and co-ops is being completely removed. This practice violates the purpose of unity and co-ops. Studies on this subject should not compromise the support provided by the state for co-operatives and manufacturers. The efficient and efficient management structure, one of the most important elements of the co-operative and troops, should not be corrupted in any way. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers must also be provided with the financial needs of agricultural sales co-ops and their troops. Kahramanmarash and the cooperatives and troops in the region are also in great straits. For this, the basis of the need for financing would be to ensure interest support under the annual budget law. The independent structure of the union and cooperatives must be observed, and even the smallest rights of the partners must be maintained. Co-operatives and troops must be even more financially strengthened in their effective work. A study must be conducted by receiving opinions and suggestions from all parties. All this progress is a waste of both our country and our nation's time. I hereby request the acceptance of our amendment proposal, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0230par0035	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the 15th article of the current bill, which is 437 rows, be removed from the draft text. Aydın Agha Ayadın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Izzet Çetin Mustafa Moroğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0231par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0230par0049	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0232par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0230par0051	Mr. Moroglu, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0233par0053	Mr. President, despite the request of our motion for the 15th Amendment to be adopted by the government and the Commission, I would like to briefly explain our reasons for this clause. Because we want this substance to be completely removed and the 238th article to continue exactly the same. For those who violated the provisions concerning the temporary import regime with the processing regime under Customs control, the Article 238 was sentenced to twice as much as the customs tax. Regarding the 15th article brought in for a change: Those who violate the customs value of the processing regime under the import regime will receive twice as much punishment over the customs tax, with this amendment offering twice as much punishment over customs value, and this is a contradiction with the provisions on the other lines of the same clause. Therefore, while other violations are based on customs tax, we do not find it right to base customs value on the violation of the customs-controlled processing regime and the interim import regime. For this conflict to be eliminated, we ask that Article 238 be carried out in the same way, so the 15th article be removed from this bill. We're trying to address the problems of our citizens at every turn. After expressing our view of this proposal, our friends have expressed their views here today on the injustices of the law on the entire bill, especially the agricultural sales units, and on two issues so far that the agricultural sales cooperatives have been able to breathe. Today, we have tried to rephrase the problems that have been waiting for years in the research motion for a party of ours on 2/B. Despite what we say, don't buy EVV and VAT from our peasants, farmers for regional support. You've moved on to a save such as not taking the WTV and VAT from Turkish Airlines. Besides, our peasants' problems aren't limited to these. I don't know if we have any congressmen who know about the Mendüme cluster. The interpretation of Mendeleme is: Five are in one place. Five villages live together in a bowl, and, perhaps, most of our Ýzmir MP friends don't know about -- leaving our home invasions in 1921, leaving 40 of our citizens firing in this square. But in that square, the monuments of 40 men were erected in the square of Hamaköy, whose names were written, but today, because of the agricultural policies you applied on that monument, there is a dark cloud, and the villagers think black. Their biggest concern about this is that for years -- and the best chestnuts that our minister should know -- is that they grow the best chestnuts they've ever been exported to -- the forests in the forest, the forests that they've lost their quality, and they've been vaccinating themselves into mountain chestnuts -- the land that they've died fighting against that enemy invasion, and they're still paying rent. Instead of passing laws on them, you make laws in order to save yourself and major companies in matters that have been whispered to you, rather than making arrangements for the benefit of the villagers to remove the WTV and the VAT. We will always speak of these things, but we can't understand why our Minister and especially the Izmir MPs are afraid to address the problems of our peasant citizens living in Mendüme, and we will continue to tell them, my dear friends. And it's a pain in the ass to have to pay rent around here. You have to pay rent for that land, 100 lira and 150 lira rent for the villagers who are olive branches these days. I think our ministers and deputies will take care of it too, not just the laws of the elders, not just the laws of the monopoly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0234par0059	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose a change of the 16th amendment of the current bill, 437 rows. In addition to export taxes, exportable goods may be fined three times as much as the export taxes of goods from the Turkish Customs Area, without subjecting them to customs or paying export taxes. Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayayın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0235par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0234par0074	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0236par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0234par0076	Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0237par0077	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, after we brief this motion on the summation of our purpose, I will continue to explain a very interesting problem for our peasant citizens. I hope that my friends, the Izmir MP, listen carefully and try to find a solution to this problem. First, we recommend that the regulation on this clause proceeds with the 240th article, because the 240th article, which came after the 239th article, was lifted by a law you passed earlier. Again, in this arrangement, we suggested that instead of adding a joke to Article 239, it should continue as a 240, and that the aim of the arrangement would be to collect the taxes that should be paid during exports, we would also recommend that the definition here be corrected as opposed to the export taxes, but unfortunately we can't agree on any kind of proposal. Because every motion, every bill from AKP (AKP) MPs, from AKP (AKP) group MPs, is accepted by saying yes, without giving any thought, without having a chance to discuss it. The bill comes in 64 articles, 94 points on the commission, and you agree. When you come to the assembly, you accept proposals to extract suggestions that protect a number of interests that have been whispered in your ear, even to the issues that come from the opposition and need to be more orderly in the technical sense, because you don't think, because you don't listen, because you don't argue. If we bring in a motion called God One, we have an image that you're going to object to without thinking, perhaps unaware, and we don't even want to ask you this question: Are you, my friends, an enemy of the wheat beater? Now, what's this wheat beater's slanger, I'll tell you in short what's going on with our villagers.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0238par0080	We know. Don't waste your time.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0239par0081	They call him the coffee-beater's griffer.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0237par0082	There are those who don't know. If you knew, you wouldn't be the enemy of that wheat beater. At weddings, they beat wheat for their weddings, they have bottoms, they have wheat for their bottoms, two men take the mallet for theirs, and as they strike, those who gather around them say, "Hush, what else do they do?" Yes, you've sunk Turkey, you've made wheat, you've made chestnuts, you've made land where agricultural products will be beaten. The Prime Minister and his partner took the gavel, and they hit him, and you say, "Hushink. " One day you'll understand what it's cost you to say, but I think, after that day, it'll fall to the workers, the peasants, who work hard to fix the mistakes you've made, and it'll fall to the circle. I don't know how you're going to pay for them. Now, my dear friends have written to the Ministry, and they have not responded well to any of them, because this chief of ours has gone to the AKP MPs, he has written to the Forest Regional Directorate, he has written to the Ministry. At the beginning of March, Bayındır Regional Directorate writes to Küçükören village, saying: "We farm here for many years; I will not name a ten hectares of land within your borders; I will not name it; a citizen wants to plant it; his name is hidden in mine" -- we will hire it to him. Whatever happened happens after that, the mayor just quits or gets fired. On the 14th of April, the Department of Public District writes to the village. Since you did not bring the documents at the time -- although the notice of the request is gone, in front of the Public District Directorate -- this transaction is being destroyed, your case is being removed from the process. We gave this land to this person. It's called. So... what would the public officials have done in the past? Look, it's the power that's taught all the public officials. My father was also the head of the population, and he put his birth certificates on the donkey's back, and he changed the birth certificate in the villages. Government officials of this state who are concerned about the public work with that kind of morality. In the old days, he would've taken the phone, Mr. Mukhtar, you've requested this land, but you're missing that document. Let's give it to the peasant as soon as possible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He wrote to the Ministry, he wrote to the Regional Directorate, they all got the same response. I think it's our duty to fix it, our duty to try, but your debt to fix it is yours. And if you don't, the plague is on your neck.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0240par0088	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion for a new clause. As you know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended most of the time. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 437 which is currently in session, the 18th Amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures shall be adopted. It's about to come up after Article 19. We propose and supply the addition of matter and other substances to be identified. The penal code of Customs No. 19-4458 shall not be imposed upon the administrative fine of the Law of Misdemeanor 5326." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Aydın Ayyadın Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Müslim Sarı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0241par0106	We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0240par0107	Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion. There's a motion on Article 19 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 1 of the draft article 4572, "the first sentence of the first sentence of the first article of the First Amendment, which is dated 1/6/2000, which is envisioned to be replaced by article 19 of the current Law Bill of 437 rows. With an autonomous, powerful and independent financial structure... their declarations will be removed from the sentence and "... To come after the word sustainable...", we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of administrative and fiscal independence..." and the addition of the following joke after the third joke of Article 4572 of Act 1. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu "There cannot be another Association of Agriculture Sales Cooperatives in the working area of an Agricultural Association." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0242par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0240par0118	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0243par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0244par0120	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0240par0121	I'm reading the reason: The amendments aim to create strong units in the creation of weak structures in co-ops in co-opsing laws 4572, the Law on Co-ops 1163 and the emphasis on independence in all aspects of the new Turkish Trade Act 6102, the prevention of co-operative and troops, and the removal of hesitations in the practice. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 19th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Cooperatives and units, established according to these laws, can be used as instruments for producers, and are used as means to provide support for the state-run co-ops, not to exceed a year," he said at the end of Article 3 of Article 1/6/2000, under Article 3 of the Law. "Cooperatives and troops conduct their purchases by processing the products they have purchased, and by organizing the decisions of the competent bodies of the evaluation activities according to market conditions." Adding his joke to the last sentence of his second joke, To follow the "all" or" declaration, "not less than a quarter of the share amount per share of the product average delivered by partners in the last three years" will be added to the statement "with the opinion of troops and other interested partners" to come after the first word of its sixth joke, and we propose that the following be added as a final joke to Article 3 be made. The Ministry of Foreign Trade is responsible for the reduction of funds and the use of funds related to the funds needed by the Ministry of Economics in the period of the Stock Exchange or exports of products that are considered suitable for the work of the Economic Ministry. Erkan Akçay Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Mesut Dedeoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the following joke to be added after Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 4572, which has been reconstituted under Article 20 of the Law and Code of Law. The Agricultural Law No. 5488 provides support for agricultural producers through the Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and Associations is a priority, and if necessary, they can be tasked with interfering with agricultural product markets by the Ministry's proposal. In this case, the shape and basis of the intervention mission will be shown in the Council of Ministers' decision. The need for loans for the financing of the Union's product purchase, protection and production inputs is provided by the Treasury on the basis of the Council of Ministers Charter and on loan rates imposed by the Agriculture Bank on credit issues. Oğuz Oyan Müslim Sarı Kazım Kurt Aydın Ağan Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Izzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0245par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0240par0148	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0246par0149	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0240par0150	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Oyan, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0247par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, sir, this has just been read in the other motion. In the government's proposal, the sentence at the end of the (1)th joke of this clause was: "Cooperatives and troops established according to these laws can be used as a means of support for the manufacturers and can be used as a means of benefit for the state-run cooperatives. We would like the Ministry to insist on this offer, not to back down in the face of the pressure of the treasure. Because that's what would've saved your arrangement here, but you've stepped back from it, it's a shame! You rejected my motion on this matter in the Commission, the motion to further strengthen it. My motion here is a motion made from my proposal for the law. Every legislature, I've offered legislation for agricultural sales cooperatives. My proposal was either discussed or discussed, denied, eventually discussed and rejected by the Commission. What are we doing with this bill? We're also giving the ministry a mandate through the Council of Ministers to give agricultural sales co-operative troops the task of interfering with the agricultural product market, and we're bringing in the treasury to be met by the treasury, with the reduction of loan-related interest rates imposed by the Agriculture Bank on loans. Mr. Clerk just read it very quickly, so I'm trying to make it clear by reading it slower. My dear friends don't go without agricultural support. There is no agricultural policy that walks without support in any part of the world, not in the United States, not in Japan, not in Europe. We're trying to ruin our own agriculture. Look, you know why agriculture doesn't work without support? Because trade has changed against agriculture. Look at the internal trade conditions in Turkey, which is domestic trade volumes -- agriculture and non-adgradal products -- the intra-industrial trade between industrial products -- are constantly growing against agriculture. In order to sustain agriculture here, you must support agriculture in order to ensure food safety. What are you guys doing? The tax you receive from the gas, which is the most important entry in agriculture, is the UVV, and the VAT is the total support you provide for agriculture. So, the tax that you're taking back, just through diesel, through the diesel that agriculture uses, is the total amount of support you're giving agriculture. Not to mention other taxes, in fertilizer, in seeds, medicine, etcetera, the incredible rise in agricultural input prices, the incredible tax loads in agricultural inputs, and you, friends, look like you're supporting agriculture. It's not true, it's a game, it's a show, it's a show. I mean, there's no such thing as agriculture support, actually, in Turkey. However, you brought your own Agricultural Law in 2006. In that Agricultural Law you said 1 percent, we support agriculture at least 1 percent of the national income. Well, give it to me, why don't you give it to me, why don't you get over half a percent? You're at half a percent, the other percent, so the manufacturer must charge you $5 billion a year in Turkey. Count for seven years and eight years since 2006, 7x5=35 billion. How much do the troops owe? The troops owe 1 billion 285 million. The source? Here you go. The 35 billion that agriculture is going to get, you can't erase a billion dollars of debt from the troops, can you? You can't erase a billion dollars of debt. You gave me $13.5 billion in direct income support -- no return, no return, no interest -- you gave me 13.5 billion, and you didn't take it back. Come on, wipe it off with your principal money and interest. No, you can't leave. My dear friends, the Agricultural Law has to pay the difference, depending on the premium system to pay the difference. So if there's a difference between the cost of a product and the market prices that produce that product, if market prices don't cover the cost, then Europe has done it for years, because of the difference. Now, don't follow us, give us direct support of the type of income support. They say that's what they've done for decades, but that's what they've done with agricultural policies. Why shouldn't we use this? You brought him into the law, so let's do it. No. You put it in the law, but you can't help it. Is that what agricultural policies are, this is co-op, this is what support policies are? My dear friends, by the way, let me tell you again: 12 million liras of troops such as Apricotism, Taskobilism, that's what you owe according to your reconstruction. You're here to go through Act 6183 and take over their administration... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and you hold him responsible at the level of government. This is truly the understanding of no service without punishment. That's wrong. You have to fix this. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0248par0165	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Cooperatives and units, established according to these laws, can be used as instruments for producers, and are used as means to provide support for the state-run co-ops, not to exceed a year," he said at the end of Article 3 of Article 1/6/2000, under Article 3 of the Law. "Cooperatives and troops conduct their purchases by processing the products they have purchased, and by organizing the decisions of the competent bodies of the evaluation activities according to market conditions." Adding his joke to the last sentence of his second joke, To follow the full or "significance," the added "not less than a quarter of the share amount per share of the product average delivered by partners in the last three years" will be added "by receiving the opinion of the troops and other interested partners" to come after the first word of its sixth joke, and we propose that the following be added as a final joke to Article 3 be made. Agriculture Sales Co-ops is the ministry responsible for foreign trade, which is involved in the work of their troops and is responsible for the reduction of funds to be determined by the Ministry of Economics or export of the products that are favourable by the Ministry of Economics, and for the use of the savings funds to the Union or troops when necessary." Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0249par0173	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0248par0174	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0250par0175	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0251par0176	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0248par0177	I'm reading the reason: With the change, the resolving of hesitations that may arise in practice, the prevention of interventions that could damage the economic interests of co-ops' partners, negatively affect their independence, encouraging the co-ops' co-ops' co-ops' accession and strengthening co-ops' co-ops' co-ops' co-ops' views are intended to be used to ensure the participation of the parties in the arrangements related to the type of central commitments. On the other hand, according to this law, it would be appropriate for cooperatives and troops to be intercessors in support of the manufacturers. In order for the Unions to function as support and not be burdened with large debt again, it is necessary for the producer to provide interest-free loan opportunities provided by state agencies in the purchases of products. The additional joke sentence on the third joke and the international trade bases are also being taken into account, with a fund on agricultural products and export products produced from them, with the incentive of agricultural activities and the balance of the agricultural sector and agricultural product market, with the aim of keeping the revenues from our country's agricultural product exclusion at a most appropriate level. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the last sentence of Article 437 of Article 437, draft 4 of Article 4572, dated 1/6/2000, scheduled to be replaced by Article 21 of the Law Bill. Amongst the people... is the expression "... We propose and propose that the following be replaced by the first sentence of the second joke. "The right to participate in general board meetings must be at least as much as the annual average of the last three years of delivery of the average product in the last three years for partners to be able to choose and choose, provided they remain reserved for each partner. The call to the General Assembly meeting is made in writing to the partners' legal residences as well as to the widespread ads. The number of representatives, qualifications, mandates, election bases, the number of cooperative and unity board members and the conditions sought in these members are determined in the model main contract," he said. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Duran Bulut Mesut Dedeoğlu Mehmet Günal Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0252par0193	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0248par0194	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0253par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0248par0196	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0254par0198	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made for the 21st Article of the Law Bill 437 rows under discussion. I salute you all. People who reproduce want what they produce to be sold for the value of what they produce, the labor of their hands, the light of their eyes, and the sweat of their brows. It's a natural demand. To that end, they form troops, they become members of cooperatives. If they can sell it for what it's worth, they'll keep producing it, if they make money, they'll take care of their cooperatives, their troops, they'll follow. They want to be in management, they choose their management, they find their CEO. Therefore, there will be serious competition, and the quality of competition will be exclusive. You can appreciate that no one insists on any damage done, nor does anyone else. Unfortunately, production is getting smaller every day in our country. How would they produce it, members of lawmakers? You can appreciate that the biggest input in production is energy. In agriculture and livestock, the largest input in production is diesel, fertilizer, medicine, seed, food, watering electricity. The decaying balances between the acquired product and the input parities have a negative effect on our production. The power still has not been able to make the sale of the gas, even though it has promised. Our farmer is waiting for days when he will buy cheap diesel, as in the marine industry. For our farmer to produce, to produce, it has to be supported, absolutely, as in the European Union, as in the United States, or as in all countries advanced in agriculture, the farmer needs to be supported, but he needs to be properly supported. If it's pretended to be supported, it'll be as heartbreaking as it is today. Come, dear MPs, let's all raise the EV and VAT in fertilizer, in medicine, in food and seed, not much, not for ever, but for at least three years, and let our farmer breathe in peace. Let's restructure reasonably in a way that our farmer can pay off his debt to the Farm Bank and to our producer's agricultural loan co-ops, otherwise, the dying agricultural sector in Turkey will collapse, unfortunately, and we will all be trapped together; we will be condemned to imported meat, milk powder, imported hay, even fruit, vegetables. The government, unfortunately, gives you a bonus for smuggling, rewards you. In the name of the border trade, agricultural products are entering our country, but can be marketed from the Istanbul Bayrampaşa Market in Ankara, or other major cities. Everyone knows who's taking advantage of off the books and smuggling, which unfortunately happens to our producer, our farmer. To remind us again and again, the task is on the power's shoulders, the duty is on yours, and yours is on yours. We've reminded you of these issues over and over again, as long as God allows us to remember, to remind, as long as he gives us health. We owe it to the silent majority to scream. The task is the power's to remind you of us. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0255par0208	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 22 that I'm reading: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. B. M. Head of M It's the 22nd edition of the current 437 Orders Numbered Bill. At the end of the article, he has to obey the first and fundamentals of his statement, which must be followed by the first and fundamentals. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Gürkut Acar İstanbul Antalya...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0256par0216	No, the motion was incomplete, Mr. President: sleeping and applying... (Absorption.) Then you dropped the sentence, and you forgot the sentence. ▪...22. At the end of the clause, we have to comply with the first and fundamentals. We demand that the expression be changed in the form of the first and the first and the first. Ali İhsan Kokturk İzzet Cetin Turgut Dibek
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0257par0220	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0258par0221	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0257par0222	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0259par0223	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0260par0224	Mr. Gürkut Acar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0257par0225	Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0261par0227	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to issue Article 22 of Bag Number 437 law. I salute you. Dear friends, I have something to say about this bag of law enforcement and the arrangements for Hal Law. If he doesn't have a sense of law in power, he makes arrangements with bags like this; he puts what he can into it, puts it in front of a citizen. What have we got here? There is a change in the 12th, 13th Laws such as Customs Law, Trafficking, Oil, Turkey Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Hal Act. Dear friends, I'm afraid he's made a habit of it, the Justice and Development Party. This bag is being brought before us with no connection, no connection to each other, and we're discussing every subject in a bag that requires a separate expertise. I'm assuming this has nothing to do with the law-making technique. Now, there's a change in the law we're going to call Hal Law 5957. I have a proposal for this law, too. Arif Cloud and our friend wanted a change, too. The Hal Law is an arrangement that deals very closely with Antalya, my constituency. But Antalya MPs are being ignored. The AKP people's proposal is added here, there's no way to understand it. My dear friends, in today's application of the law, the state of the law is shared: 25 per cent of its status is to the producer municipalities, to those who consume 75 per cent. Who are the producer municipalities? The municipalities, such as Izmir, Antalya, Mersin, are at work. The consumers, of course, are Ankara and Istanbul. We are the producers of this work. Sometimes the product is offered to consumption without ever becoming one. At that time, the municipality at the point of consumption will earn money without any effort, which is not fair. We said, "It is not fair." But the Justice and Development Party has never fulfilled the justice of that name and has not listened to us. In Ankara you have no right to finance Melih Gökçeş, Kadir Topbaş, İstanbul, for the work of Antalya, Mersin, and İzmir. It is shameful, and it is wrong, and it is not fair to Antalya. We said, "Do not be unjust to him." But we could not make him listen. When we say this, the right of the manufacturers is protected by the law, the power of the Council of Ministers is now given to the minister by this bill. The Minister will set up a regulation, give you what you want. That's no understanding, that's no justice. The lawless producer municipalities will never, ever get their rights under the minister's regulations. But the productive provinces, the laboring provinces, the people of Antalya will surely ask you to account for this injustice. Dear friends, let's get to customs regulations. Can customs legislation be implemented in all parts of Turkey right now? I'm asking you if customs legislation is valid in Turkey's southeastern borders starting from Hatay. It is not possible to say yes to these questions. Look, because of the conflict in Syria, the people that Turkey has provided support and protection for, even armed people, are walking in and out of Turkey. It's impossible to understand. Now, the American newspaper New York Times says that at Ankara Esenboğa Airport, Katar, Saudi Arabia and Jordan are carrying weapons in military cargo planes. Well, isn't the CIA's operations subject to customs regulations? Aren't the people who came in from Syria with guns subject to customs regulations? Do you have any idea what went in and out of the Syrian border? My dear friends, unfortunately, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't know any of this, and the government doesn't know anything about it. You will turn Turkey's southern border into an inn that has crossed its border, and the citizens will be banned from importing it and importing it. You will say, "You will bake it at the head of the citizen, first the customs tax, then you will seize four times that of its property. It's not possible to see reason. My dear friends, with these thoughts, ask for the acceptance of our motion, and I salute you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0262par0237	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 22nd Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd edition of the current 437 Orders Numbered Bill. We propose that the statement of construction at the end of the md should be changed in the form of all production facilities. Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Ali Serindağ Mehmet Ali Sesam Ramadan Kerim Özkan Sakine Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the current Law Bill 437 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0263par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0262par0255	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0264par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0262par0257	Mr. Chinar, come in, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0265par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the amendment motion we made as the National Movement Party in Article 23 of the Law on Amendments to Customs Act 437 and Some Laws and Laws. I salute your high council. Agricultural sales are established to protect the manufacturer's interests. The gathering of manufacturers under a roof and supporting the manufacturer is one of the most important goals of these troops. These troops are independent organizations that govern themselves, which should not be interfered with. It will not be in the farmer's best interest to open up their means of intervention, to make arrangements about them. With the changes being made, we are concerned that a political domination of these organizations is being considered. As agricultural sales co-opters were established, it was intended to ensure that the farmer ensures their needs in the most appropriate way, such as fertilizer, diesel, seed, and machine, providing appropriate loans for our farmer, providing support for their production to develop and gain more profits. Kastamon, my constituency, is one of our provinces that provides most of its livelihood with agriculture and livestock. For our farmer in the region, it is very important that agricultural sales co-ops are widespread and powerful. Up until the 2000s, we had about 50 percent agricultural sales cooperatives operating in our province, while today, unfortunately, our active co-operative numbers have dropped to 19. Our farmer in the region and the county without co-ops is crushed by the merchant's hand. What the government has to do is to strengthen and promote these organizations, to keep the farmer stronger by keeping all kinds of numbers away from them. For a country to stand on its feet, its agriculture must be strong. A country that can't afford itself can't claim any power in the world. Unfortunately, our country has been very regressed over the last decade, and agriculture has been brought to its end. In 2002, the agricultural growth rate of our country, which was 9.3 per cent, was reduced to 2.6 per cent in 2012. In ten years, our population has increased by more than 10 percent, while our growth rate in agriculture has remained at 1.5 per cent. In ten years, AKP's biggest work was to borrow money from the farmer. When you came to power, our farmer owed $530 million, and in 2012 that amount increased to $30 billion. In my constituency, Kastamon, we have 360,000 citizens. Currently, the number of files that have been tracked for execution is over 50,000. Unfortunately, valuable lawmakers, this is the majority of the file rates that are being followed by our farmers in agriculture. The amount of loans used by our farmers from the Agriculture Bank in 2002 was $2,745,000, while the amount reached 204 million,688000 in 2012. Almost all of our farmers have been pushed into debt. Why does a person feel the need to borrow money? He'll either expand his business or he won't be able to do it on his own anymore. Now, our agricultural people are in a position to live on debt. Dear lawmakers, this is what our farm farmers are facing, and unfortunately, it's not what they owe, it's whether they're selling their farm or tractor to pay off their debt. It's not just in my own knowledge, it's in every area of agriculture. In ten years, agriculture is over, and our farmer is devastated. One of our farmer's most important supporters is to support agricultural sales co-ops, increase the ability to hold our farmers' hands. Otherwise, we won't have any farming citizens left in Turkey. I look forward to your support for this amendment motion we've made, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0266par0269	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 23rd edition of the current 437 Orders Numbered Bill. We propose that the statement of construction at the end of the md should be changed in the form of all production facilities. Sakine Öz (Manisa) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0267par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0266par0277	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0268par0278	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0269par0279	Mr. Sakine Oz...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0266par0280	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0270par0282	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 23rd amendment of the proposed bill. I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, the 19th and 30th article of the next bag bill envisions changes in the Law on Agriculture Sales Co-operatives and Associations. When we look at the arrangement, we see that the bill revolves around agricultural problems, co-opters and troops rather than radically solving their demands, not focusing on the real problems of Turkey's agriculture, not on the real problems of Turkey's international institutions, but on the main framework of global bureaucrats' desk arrangement, and on the problems of financing in the products' buy-times, which are the biggest challenge for troops to get a sustainable financial structure. However, we understand that the bill does not consider solutions by the state to support co-optive and troops by state or public policy figures. The government's attitude is to gradually neutralize agricultural sales co-ops and troops, and it means avoiding the responsibilities our Constitution has imposed on the state, in turn, towards the development of co-ops. The bill, with a very wrong choice, does not respond to the demands of co-operative and troops and the Price Stability Fund to restructure its debt, but consumes the opportunity to use public loans with appropriate interest. Companies and co-ops, which have raised debts, have failed to provide credit financing and are unable to fulfil their completed activities. Of course, in our country, a more regular and efficient audit, which is taking on an important job in agriculture, should be opened a way for unity and cooperatives to work more efficiently. All of these studies must demonstrate an understanding that will facilitate the solution to our real agricultural problems. In our country, the low quality of agricultural support premiums, the height of agricultural input costs, the rising of imported goods day by day, the restructuring of union and cooperative debt in terms of agricultural truth, and ultimately looking for solutions to transform Turkey's many agricultural products into imports, but with this bill, it is forced to consolidate the efficiency and efficiency of agriculture and to establish bureaucratic processes by opening the audit processes to the private sector. The bill transfers control and management processes to independent institutions, gradually moving out of the constituency of the electoral body. Members of parliament, the third article of the bill, referring to measures to the development of co-optarianism, seems to have opened up an important issue, however, to exemptions and exceptions for cooperatives and unions. Will the exception and exemption of the law affect the laws associated with it and adopted before the law? This verdict is not clear. In a different law, a matter that can affect cooperatives and troops may not be clearly stated in this law, and may not be considered by the enforcers. Dear lawmakers, this bag you imposed on the people of the law sector while suffering the victims of raisin companies and cooperatives in the Aegean region and especially in Manisa. The Sultani type is a basic export pen that is considered a seedless raisin dryer and a table. Agricultural policies based on poor support and promotions that have been monitored recently increased the problems of late-declared grape purchase prices and inadequate, unresolved storage, unresolved infrastructure services, our grape producers and exporters. In times like these, our manufacturers have experienced in past years, there has been a history of salvation, but as of today, Tarish, who was not supported by the state, is powerless to remain and have hope for his partners. This year, many of our grape producers have agreed to sell the kilograms for less than 2.5 lira without a core, but not even at this low price, so that they would not remain in the vineyard, although the Tarish Grape Co-operatin is quite low. If this price lowers the price at the beginning of the season at less than $3.5, I'll take it. It has silenced our politicians in the statement. I wonder if this plan that doesn't get to the bottom of the matter, that makes the problem bigger, will it cure the raisins of my district? I don't think so. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0271par0291	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 23 is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 24th and 47th articles. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group in the second chapter, Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0272par0299	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the second chapter of the underlying Law Bill 437 rows. I salute you all. The bill makes adjustments in the legislation on the fight against fuel, tobacco products, alcoholic beverages and other goods to increase the effectiveness of trafficking. Smuggling is one of the crimes that threatens the country's economy and causes significant tax loss. The smuggling of basic goods and goods, which are important for tax revenues, is causing our country to lose economic power, preventing the opening of registered jobs and disrupting local businesses' activities due to unfair competition. Indirect taxes in our country are too high and political instability in neighbouring countries attracts all kinds of contraband from these countries. The fact that high profits and penalties in our country's illegal property are not deterrent encourages this crime. The issue of trafficking in our country is a very important issue for areas such as security, terrorism, social, finance, economic and culture, but there is no fight for smuggling. It has been announced by Mr. Prime Minister that there has been fuel smuggling at $15 billion a year. The Prime Minister's Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated February 13, 2007, asked for records from 48 countries where we imported oil from the foreign Trade Undersecretary, speaking on February 28, 2007. Thirty-one percent of these countries responded. 31 countries where these answers say that Turkey has imported $28 billion of oil from us over the last two and a half years. According to the records here, the amount of fuel imported from these 31 countries in the same period is only $9.3 billion. There's a difference of $18.7 billion. When you add the share of SV, VAT and EPDK, the difference goes up to 38 billion dollars, and we haven't gotten the records of 17 countries yet, and when they do, the difference is going to get bigger. Together with our new law, which has entered into practice today, we have largely blocked trafficking, and we have eliminated this major corruption ground. They have had very clear explanations. According to this information given by the Prime Minister, two thirds of the fuel entering our country are fugitives. At least $38 billion a year in two and a half, which is at least $15 billion a year in fuel smuggling, and the state's tax loss is around $8 billion a year. In the past six years since the Prime Minister's statement, has smuggling been largely blocked? Has this great corruption floor been wiped out? No. What has been done as a government on this issue, what measures have been implemented, what results have been taken, and we have brought it up as a nationalist movement party. During the latest budget talks, we asked the Finance Minister, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Customs and Trade and the Deputy Prime Minister, but information has shown that there has been no significant improvement in preventing this smuggling so far. As a matter of fact, the amount of illegal fuel capture was 32,000 tonnes in 2010 and 37,000 tons in 2011, according to information from the minister in budget talks. During the first eight months of 2012, Mr. Minister stated that 32,000 tonnes of illegal fuel were seized, which meant averting tax loss of around 91 million lira. The Prime Minister, however, mentioned the tax loss of 8 billion dollars a year, and the amount caught is not even 1%. How can such a large amount of fuel be smuggled into our country? Why can't smuggling be prevented? The reasons for failure in this matter must be explained by the government and given account to our nation. A serious and decisive political will is needed to succeed in the fight against smuggling. Unfortunately, it's not possible to find it in the AKP mentality, and the process shows it clearly. Our AKP-run country, unfortunately, looks like a country dominated by smugglers, profiteers, con artists, con artists. Dear lawmakers, there is a known fact that the PKK's terrorist organization is taking a serious part in this smuggling event. More gravely, the ministers know that the PKK's terrorist organisation provides resources through fuel and cigarette smuggling, and they even share that information with the public. On 8 November 2007, during the signing of a co-operation between Customs Undersecretary and the Energy Market Editing Board on the prevention of fuel trafficking, Mr. Hayati Printer, who was then the Minister of State and Deputy Prime Minister of Customs, provides the money for the equipment used by the PKK terrorist organisation. There's intel that there's fuel smuggling among them." That's what he said. The Energy Minister said that fuel smuggling continues despite all prevention, and most of it is done by ships by the PKK. The Minister of Finance stated on October 27, 2011 that cigarette smuggling was linked to the terrorist organization in the Anti-Smuggling Action Plan for Tobacco and Tobacco Mamullers. Over the last four years, over 400 million packages of illegal cigarettes have been seized. It's imperative that we look at smuggling not only as a forensic case, but as an event that finances terrorism, but as a policy development. The fight against terrorism is not supported by rational policies, and it is clear that terrorism cannot have permanent results unless its financial resources are drained. The state must decide to make an effective fight against smuggling. This has to be done so the PKK doesn't try to kill our people by feeding on this smuggling. To condone smuggling is equivalent to supplying weapons to the organization. It's imperative that you stop even if it's too late. With the fact that every liter of fuel passing illegally across the border, each pack of cigarettes provides a bullet to the organization, it must be stopped immediately. While known as smuggling fuel in mules or trucks and truck depots, it is evident that the smuggling was done by ships, by tankers. As a matter of fact, the Minister of Energy has expressed it. The fuel must first be blocked from entering our country, and the customs doors and ports must be kept under strict control. If it isn't, it's hard to avoid selling fuel that can break into the dorm no matter how many precautions are taken about distributors and dealerships. Once he's in the dorm, he'll find a way to sell himself. I'm asking Mr. Secretary: Why is there no way the PKK could prevent the smuggling of tens of billions of dollars of fuel and cigarettes, even though it was known to be the source of the terrorist organization's income? I'm asking the Prime Minister why, despite your strong words, you couldn't prevent fuel smuggling? Why did you not cut off this hose to the PKK, even though you kept saying, "We've cut the cords." In fact, the reason for this is the fact that the AKP government has been seen as a partner in the negotiations and negotiation traffic with the PKK and the Imralı and that the bloody terrorist organization aimed at interethnic division has been considered to be the solution and peace ambassador of the Imran criminal. In this regard, the AKP government has given no hope of preventing trafficking, which is mainly controlled by the PKK. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0273par0311	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Izzet Cetin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0274par0315	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the second part of the underlying Law Bill 437 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, we're up against a classic bill of law, a bag of law again. This bill was produced during the Plan and Budget Commission talks, with over 20 amendments to the bill. Of course, the changes are really very funny. Given the reason for the bill presented to us, as Mr. Nationalist Movement Party's spokesman said earlier, it was intended to prevent smuggling and prevent issues of illegal trafficking in customs or in illegal ways. Even though it was said to us there, it was intended that some toys imported from outside the country, especially China, or Japan, or other toys, or other toys, or other toys imported from Japan, were intended to be prevented or made fit for health. It was clear that they were not real, although it was said. I'm going to say it here because it's so exemplary. Above, the 63rd -- now I think 89, I think -- there is a change in the Umumi Hfzussihahah Law, and 7-8 articles are being removed. Motive? Toys are bad for you. If anyone has an iPad, let anyone with a computer look at the same material. When Article 197 of the Public Health Act was issued in 1930, the municipality either builds a slaughterhouse or rehabilitates what exists within five years. I mean, it's far from serious, far from preventing trafficking. It will be discussed in a week, perhaps, when the Oil Market Law, which is related to the Oil Law, should be better discussed with him, is now being discussed here. Of course, we, as parties or as lawmakers, are doing extra work here, and we continue to do it. Dear friends, Agricultural Sales Co-operative 4572 is a law in accordance with 10 articles. We're changing seven. It's a fact that the law can be democratized, the mechanisms are improved, the co-ops are strengthened, structural problems removed, et cetera, but the bride sees that a whole single code is imposed, democratic operating mechanisms are blocked, almost driven, and it's headed towards a single state of co-op. Again, the Organization for Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial 4733 is envisioned for a change in the Agency and its duties, but if we look back, Mr. Prime Minister says it will be necessary because the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Foundation is being sold at Bilgi University's restaurant in İstanbul on July 25, 2012. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan is now completely out of the production of cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. There's no point in such an institution stopping after privatisations. In this sense, a bill of law is being sent to parliament on December 19, 2012, and we are witnessing a comprehensive change in the Law on the organisation of the tobacco and alcohol market, which is strengthened here in this bill. Dear friends, speaking of which, I would say that the sin of TeKEL is especially at the neck of AKP MPs and their government. And I looked back, and all the income of cigarettes and alcoholic beverages went into the hands of strangers in 1883, and I looked back, until 1883. When the republic was established in 1923, the smoking was stateed in 1925, the drinking was nationalized in 1926, and the work was called TEKEL in 1946, and the TEKEL Law came out in 1969. By the time it was shut down, an institution that employs 40,000 people, workers, $600,000 manufacturers, $1 billion in liquor division, $1 billion, $720 million in tobacco departments were sold out at the expense of taxes, while the corporations were paying taxes, and the golden spawning chicken was slaughtered at your time. Elin's son received $292 million, handed it over to $810 million in 2006, and then re-arranged for $3.2 billion in 2009. The plague of this is in your hands, which you lift. Dear friends, Petroleum Market Law 5015 is part of the 30 clauses, and 14 clauses are being changed. I mean, whether it's been thought out, well-spoken, researched, it's anonymous. You will say, and you will approve, and I will not doubt it. But there's a lot to be said about fuel stations. When they go to Europe and ask the employer where he's applying for a license, he's a distance risk and he's dense, so they'll lead him to a master plan first, and not to the dense areas, but to other areas, but we don't even have a master plan. We all know, dear friends, that we all travel. On the way out, we call it cheap oil. When you go in, really, oil, diesel is cheap there. Where does this diesel come from? Why is it cheap? Smuggling. Don't we know that? So there are reports of trafficking in Turkey in the 40 per cent of the informal economy, international investigations on the size of trafficking in Turkey, where the size of trafficking in Turkey is more than $5 billion per month, which is very clear, because I was a union leader -- let's say a foreign researcher -- among the top executives of Kurdish guerrillas, security forces, and governments -- is a great source of conflict and ranta. You've been in power for 11 years. Smuggling is one of the main issues that feeds terrorism. Terror cannot be prevented by political measures alone. If you try to stop him from drying the resources that feed him, you'll create a co-principal. You'll see in the future he'll bring it to you. If you really want to prevent terrorism, the first thing you need to do is to cut off its material resources in order to drain the source of terrorism, the MHP spokesman said as well. Now, our country has come to a point where it's as if there's someone holding your hand, as if there's no governor in this country, as if there's no governor in the provinces, as if there's no governor in the provinces, as if there's no police chiefs, as if there's no financial inspectors. That smuggling, in cigarettes, in guns, in this one... and now we've been made an intermediary for another international smuggling by airway. Dear friends, the measures that really need to be taken on this smuggling have not been discussed in a healthy manner, but in the Plan and Budget Commission, the proposals of opposition parties have not been taken into account, but all the blame is on you, and you will continue. Look, I'll give you an example. The European Union Convention on Clearing, Researching, Confiscation, Confiscation, and Finance of Terrorism has been transferred to Turkey's Grand National Assembly and has been discussed by the Foreign Commission and has received a number. It was sent on October 7, 2011. After the number of rows was taken, your government suddenly withdrew this bill from Parliament yesterday. Now, as a member of parliament and as a citizen of this country, I'm asking the government if its legislation was prevented by a major money traffic jam, or if the terrorist organization had black, dirty money to move in from the outside, and you withdrew it for him? If you're sincere, if you really want to avoid unregisteredness, prevent trafficking, you need to be democratic, listen to the voice of the opposition and heed their suggestions, I salute the esteemed members of the High Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0275par0328	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. In the name of his personal name, MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0276par0332	Mr. President, we're discussing the Customs Law; yes, but before we discuss the Customs Act, I'd like to speak on behalf of myself about an important problem that concerns my city. If there's time later, or at the beginning of the third chapter, I'll also give you my opinion on the Customs Law. I say it's the problem with my city, yes, it's really about my city, the Bigeli industrial area. Since it's an industrial area, there are many private companies' factories. One of them is Pakmaya, whose name is clear and clear. This Pakmaya company produces an age yeast, and Turkey is also a monopoly, as in Turkey it is a monopoly, but it is also a monopoly in the world. For as long as I know, this company has been employing workers at a minimum wage or a little higher in years. In fact, they have factories in Turkey, not only in Izmit, but also in İzmir, Düzce. The workers this company employs are people who have worked for 20 years, 30 years, working for $1,000, $1,200, or minimum wage. From time to time, workers in this company want to organize. They want to be organized. They don't want to form a criminal organization, they want to form a terrorist organization. Every time they want to form a union, some of these workers are fired. It was like this fifteen years ago, like this ten years ago, and the same thing is happening today. Six workers from Izmit's establishment were fired today because they participated in the work of forming a union; four workers were fired in Düzce, and four workers in İzmir. Now, I ask you: on September 12, 2010, everyone will no longer be a member of one union, but two unions. Isn't that what you said at the referendum? There will now be a union guarantee for people in Turkey. They will have a union structure that protects them, protects them, defends their social rights, defends their wages. You said that, let alone, right now Turkey has one fifth of its union figures working in Turkey on September 12, 1980, and the number of unionists is melting every day. So let alone being a member of two unions, people get fired for trying to become a member of one union. You might say: "The assets are high, there's competition." This is really a monopoly and the cost of five percent labor, my friends. European standards vary from 18 to 23 per cent, this sector has 5 per cent work, and what do people do when they try to establish a union to secure their rights to this labor? They're being put out the door, and we're bragging about the Business Act here. What do we say? We bring workers the right to a constitutional right to a job. We call it a huge lie. The Minister of Labor was just here. When I explained the situation to him, he no longer had to report it to the employer to become a unionist. We opened the thing from the union. He said, "They can now be unionists on the Internet." It's a complete hoax, there's no such thing, it's an e-sidika, there's no such thing. But I asked the Minister of Labor to send an inspector, and he promised to send it. I'm expecting you today tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, next Tuesday, I'm going to ask him if this inspector sent it, what he sent it to him, why were the workers fired? I mean, is it really because there's too much work to do, because he got thrown out because he's a union worker? Dear friends, you have a great pressure, a great pressure on all of Turkey's institutions, and one by one you have taken over the institutions that you have failed to achieve, and there are several unions left. One of them is DlSK. In fact, the raid that happened the other day on Genel-İsti... we visited there with our friends today... 48 doors were broken in... these aren't iron doors, friends; they're normal, they're doors that go into an office or go to the bathroom. They even broke down these doors, the door that was open. He says: "Our addresses are clear, our houses are clear, we have guards there, if they had come knocking on the door, we would have opened the door, they would have made their calls." Oh, they say that he was a union member who threw a lava gun at the AKP building, he was a union president. If E had thrown out a doctor, you would have raided all the hospitals, or if the engineer had thrown out an engineer, you would have raided all the institutions he worked for, or if this had worked at our Department of Public Works, you would have raided TOKI. Is there such an understanding, my friends? Unions are trying to be silenced, workers' efforts are being prevented. Well, you're gonna be able to do that, and then you're gonna come in here and you're gonna say, "We've given the right to be two unions, and they can belong to the workers and any union they want." Are you looking at the number of union workers? Total number of employees, the number of union workers in Turkey 9 per cent At least one percent of the world belongs to Turkey and...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0277par0342	Let's just shut it down.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0276par0344	Let's just close it. They say. That's right, turn it off and be happy, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0278par0346	We don't, yours...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0279par0347	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Congressmans, I'm going to the QA section. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0280par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, Mr. Minister, it is said that in these days, when the border, Syria, our borders were destroyed, people were deported again because customs and other substances such as people, animals and other drugs were so dense, there were fires in the refugee camp today, there were riots, there were two people killed, and many people were injured, and there were announcements in Assad's favour. Is that true? Can you tell me about it?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0279par0352	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0281par0354	Of course, my knowledge is very limited, so it is not at this time that I give you any information that will really satisfy you, but security measures are always protected, not only when the event occurs, but also for the safety of Syrian citizens who have defected to Turkey by taking security measures to be preventive. Of course it's an important service. I mean, they're almost 200,000 refugees from Turkey. So, unfortunately, there are these kinds of fires that they use to warm up, to satisfy their other needs, as well as other kinds of fuels, but I don't know if any of them, because of this kind of fire, are reversing it, actually, but our relevant friends will explain it, and I think I'll access that information tomorrow, and share it with you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0282par0357	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0283par0359	Mr. Secretary, there's been a report recently from the press. According to this report, there have been reports that the punishment for violating the Competitiveness Act has been reduced, as a minister from the government stepped in, claiming that the punishment against the banks would undermine macroeconomic balances. Is that a concern? Is there any difference between the punishment proposed by the Chairman of the Competition Foundation and the punishment? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0282par0361	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0284par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are exorbitant penalties for listening to music on the radio at Antalya. It's considered a crime to listen to music in salons, shops, drugstores, police raids. There's no way to figure that out. Copyright is important, no one is to be violated, everyone's rights are protected, but there's a method. It is not understandable that the tradesman is being raided as if he were being raided by an organized crime organization. Is this practice being done all over Turkey, in villages, in districts? Are there any other raids outside Antalya? How much did the Esnafa get? Is there going to be a solution, a middle ground, that won't hurt anyone here? What is the government's application? There's a lot of serious pressure on copyrights, Mr. Secretary, and it's a common practice, and the tradesman is exhausted. I expect an explanation on this matter from you as a government. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0285par0366	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0286par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Mustafa Gülshen Bey, our AKP MP in Kastamonu, recently told the press that Kastamonu had serious initiatives to build the free zone. Is there any study of this in our area? I'd like to get the information from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0287par0371	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0288par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, even though these cement factories were fined by the Competition Board last year, they're continuing to form the same monopoly now, and especially because they're building a monopoly on concrete plants, they're causing a lot of trouble to pay concrete to the citizens. Will you be working on that again?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0289par0376	Thank you, Mr. Light. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0290par0378	Thank you. I would like to answer Mr. Erdoğdu's question: The Competitive Association is one of the first independent senior institutions established in Turkey, and my observation is that -- of course, you are this opinion -- by its practices so far -- has put sanctions on sides, in a very fair way, in order to enforce market rules, and in the face of corrupt actions. He's started an investigation into banks, turned them into investigations, and explained that he's made his final decision. This decision, of course, is an administrative procedure. So, because the upper board is administratively operational, banks in the position of the decision or subject have the right to take this decision to the judiciary, of course. As soon as it does, I mean, it'll be final. So, I don't want to comment any further on a savings like this on my legal identity, but let me put it this way, in your question, you're saying that you're hearing that either one or a few of the government members are involved. So hearing, hearing on its name, is not done by hearings that are not based on data...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0291par0381	I'm not saying that, Mr. Secretary, there's been news in the press.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0290par0382	...but I've always looked at it this way, in Turkey, in the government's administration scheme, whether it's the top board, or the ministry, or another unit, when they're doing their procedures, when they're using their duties and powers, they look at it with a holistic approach to Turkey, and they make their decisions according to it. So the Competitiveness Agency, of course, makes decisions by taking into account the country's interests, its economic performance, its reflections, and, of course, the contribution of competition to the economy. As a matter of fact, in his law, he has the authority to enforce sanctions up to 10 percent of his turnovers, which means that the lawmaker has predicted the border to this board in order to create this flexible space. So I don't think there's much to be criticised for the fact that the board applied sanctions within a range of 10 per cent. That's my statement on this. Mr. Acar is being punished for listening to music... in fact, I find that difficult to understand. Why is a music listener being punished? If it's a high-frequency listener after certain hours...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0292par0384	Copyright.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0290par0385	Okay, let me get this straight. I don't know about that. Why is a music listener being punished?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0293par0386	I'll tell you. According to the copyright law, there is a penalty in Antalya to a radio-listening shopkeeper at the barber shop.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0290par0388	It's probably copyrighted there. There's been a wiretap hearing, a complaint, sanctions.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0294par0389	Mr. Secretary, it's very common.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0290par0390	Look, guys, the idea and the testing rights are very important, so you're going to protect the rights of thought and test, but I'm thinking, why did he think of that scale, why did that example come, and why shouldn't Turkey have to go through that? So this needs to be focused on. I mean, it's a barber shop, but rights are important. And when you look at the matter on the scales of rights, there is a listening without permission, from which there is interference. The question of Mr. Çınar is: Kastamonu is free zone... You know, the Ministry of Economics has the authority to organize and establish free zones, so free zones are defined by the Ministry of Economy and free zones have a pattern. So I don't have any information that I'd like to share with you as of right now about what's going on in the Ministry of Economy's field. This is Mr. Light's assessment of the monopoly of cement factories, which we occasionally get from time to time. About a year and a half ago, there was a rise in both cement and iron prices, especially in the construction industry. We're gathered in the sector, we've talked, there's been a recovery, but I'm going to focus on my reworking of your complaint in the cement area by combining it with the complaints that I've been given before. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0295par0394	Yeah, one more question. We still have time, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0296par0397	Mr. Secretary, when I was just asking, I didn't tell you what I heard, I asked you about the news in the press, and it's on important media. It wasn't my claim, it was a press release. The fine for banks was reduced from $2.7 billion to $1.1 billion with a minister's dick. That's what I asked. I didn't say that to blame, one. Second, you mentioned the independence of independent boards. If the chairman of a board is appointed for two semesters, independence will be eliminated. We told him when this law came in, but he wouldn't listen to us, government. There's another important matter, Mr. Secretary. Now, when I look at public tender records, when I look at privatisation tenders, I see that the public tenders in Turkey keep going round and round among 20 companies. These companies have privatisations, public tenders, contracts under the State Contraction Act... concessions, licenses all over these companies. According to public tender board records, this appears to be a situation that eliminates competition. I wonder if the President of the Competitive Protection Agency can start a competition review through these statistics in public tenders. Can you give me some instructions on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0297par0401	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0298par0403	Thank you. Dear friends, I do not give orders or instructions to the Competition Council. The Competition Association does not receive instructions from the minister, whose relationship is related because of its administrative relations, because of its budget. We need to know that. So, if you have a complaint, if you have a complaint, if you have some data that you have reached us, if these are credible, you can deliver it to the Competition Foundation, or you can send it to us, we'll send it to the Competitiveness Agency. Take it, take it, assess it... So the relevant petition is added... That's it. That's the assessment we sent or did. Of course they come to me, and I go from time to time. We don't talk about these things, about investigations. So if the Agency has any other problems, staff problems, staff problems, we'll talk about them. The Competitive Association actually, in a very independent, autonomous structure, considers issues, negotiates, ultimately decides, explains. That's how he saves money on banks. Some find him few, some find him many, but that's the way he appreciates it. There may be a repeat of what I just said, but he used his authority within the margin. And if you look at the decision, it applied a little bit more to those who were extremely disruptive to the competitive environment, and it applied a little lower to the others. So that's what you've got. He'll finally write down his decision, explain it, become public. You'll be able to make a healthier assessment when we read that rational decision.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0299par0407	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you've ever left the Cilve-Eye Border Gate, but I've been out there a couple of times, and we've seen that the trucks that came out of our side of the border unload the goods that they normally carry in the middle of Syria without going into Syria, and that they've come back from thousands of blue barrels, so they've entered and re-entered Turkey in a few hours. When we said to the customs officers there, "Why do you tolerate this?," we were told to turn a blind eye. They're saying. Do you know anything about this, sir?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0299par0410	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0411	I'm sorry if you left soon.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0412	I mean, it's probably been, like, six months.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0413	Look, I mean, did you go to the Customs Gate once? I've been there a few times, I've been there, I've been there unannounced, and I've been there very soon.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0414	There's still one now, sir, alone.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0415	And I've been there recently, but I haven't seen the kind of action you've been saying, and it hasn't been passed on to me until today.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0416	There is now, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0417	There's a zone.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0418	It's a natural outlying area. Mules and barrels are being moved.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0419	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There is a distance of 2,900 meters between our services, customs services, and the Syrian border crossing point, or the unit where customs services are performed. This is what we call the region.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0420	Yeah, that distance, yeah.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0421	2,400 meters of this is Turkish territory, 500 meters of Syrian territory. At the moment, Syrian traders and Turkish traders are in the area, in the middle of the trade. Our vehicles come there, bring the goods; Syrian trucks come empty; products that are sold are transferred to Syrian trucks. Shopping is ending, they're going to Syria, Turkish vehicles are coming to Turkey, but in that area, in the way you say, with the cans, it's possible that there may be an activity to satisfy the needs of these vehicles, but I'll have them examined immediately. If you repeat your question tomorrow, I'll brief you on what happened.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0300par0422	Mr. Secretary, there are thousands of barrels, you'll see if you can get them checked out, sir.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0301par0423	Okay, so my Warden General is here, so they got the note. I'll give you healthy information tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit05spe0302par0425	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, our time is up. The talks on chapter two are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 28 of the Law Bill 437, İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and his friends were unable to decide on the number of votes. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 29 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Customs Act 1/746 shall be changed to 1/6/2000 by Article 29 of the Charter of the Law on Some Laws and Laws, which shall be included in the third joke of Article 6 of Article 4572, which shall be added to the Law. Mustafa Elitaş Recep Custom Text Ashunk Mehmet Doğan Kubat Yılmaz Bronze Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0304par0018	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0019	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0305par0020	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0021	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to prevent the victims of the current managers in co-ops. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Customs Law No. 1/746, under the First Amendment to certain Laws and Laws Acts, under Article 31 of the Law Bill on Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 4733, on Article 8 of the Law, on Alcohol and Tasks of the Law, we propose that all kinds of drugs, alcohol, tobacco and tobacco abuse be replaced in order to fight addiction, and we offer to associations established to fight the abuse of alcohol, alcohol, tobacco and tobacco. Mustafa Elitaş Osman love Look Muyettin Aksak Rifat Sait Ahmet Berat Çonkar Ali Gültekin Sword Zülfü Demirbök Oya Eronat Bayram Özçelik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add the following statement to the second joke added to Code 4733 with the 31st Article of the current 437 rows bill. "In addition, the sentences referred to in Article 8 of Article 03.01.2002 and Article 4733 are not applied to those who produce, sell, produce, and transport the helix tobacco in the jokes of f, g, h. Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayayın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 31 of the 437 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Fair Wolf Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0306par0052	We don't agree with the final motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0053	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0307par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0055	I'm reading the reason: This article mentions a change that could lead to negative consequences for the Agency and its duties of the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Organization. The institution is said to be able to follow the public cases of tobacco, tobacco products, ethanol, methanol, and the real and legal people who produce goods or services in the market for alcoholic beverages, as part of the market activities. There is also a statement that, as may be found in the criminal complaint, the legislation can be applied to the authorities for sanctions. This actually causes the possibility and anxiety of interfering with a citizen's lifestyle. It is intended to prevent this with change. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add the following statement to the second joke added to Code 4733 with the 31st Article of the current 437 rows bill. "In addition, the sentences stated in Article 8 of Article 03.01.2002 and Article 4733 are not applied to those producing, selling, selling, and moving tobacco in the jokes of f, g, h. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0308par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0066	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0309par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0303par0068	Anybody want a word on the motion? Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0310par0071	Mr. President, very valuable members, dear friends, an institution that is the tobacco and alcohol market... this institution has already been abolished. This institution -- we're still making this law -- was abolished in the Agricultural Commission two months ago, passed through the Commission. We're still discussing a disbanded institution here. What do we want here? Friends, the production of a product in Turkey cannot be free and forbidden. Sarmalı tobacco, Mush MPs, Adıyaman MPs, Malatya MPs, it's a fact of life. If tobacco is to be banned in the world, let's ban it. If people in the world forbid smoking, let's ban it, all of us, but Philip Morris, Japan Tobacco, we're going to sell all the cigarettes we've produced to Turkey, underline our own village, in a 500 square metre area... there's the fact of Adıyaman Çelikhan, Malatya Kurucaova, Mus... In Diyarbakir, Mardin, Siirt, around here, people wrap their tobacco and drink it; there is a fact of life. You say it's free, you add it -- 3,000 liras, 5,000 liras a year tops -- and then, after that, you seize his car while he transports it. Yeah, brother, he's free! In Anatolia, there are tobacco shops everywhere. You're between your boss's lips on that property. There's a punishment in the law, actually. If he practices, he'll fine that dealer 500 lira a day. It's in the law, but you're between your boss's lips. My dear friends, we say in this motion, friends, the planting is free. There are 50 stores in the same market, they sell garlic tobacco. It's not illegal, but it's illegal. The bride, the non-existent Tobacco and Alcohol Market Foundation, doesn't exist, there's no such institution; there's a Article 8 of this, there's a penalty for shipping and selling. Guys, if we're going to ban tobacco, Mr. Secretary, let's all bring it in together and seize it. If no tobacco is to enter Turkey, let's all raise our hands together. But you put bandroll in the sale of foreign cigarettes to Turkey, and you sell them as you please. Let's get this on the record. Let's record the breeder and the seller's tax records. Put something specific on it. But we can't go anywhere without a restraining order. We can't go anywhere with a ticket. It's an Anatolian fact. Go, look, in those little stools, all over Asia Minor, in the southeast, he takes off his layer, wraps up his tobacco, and drinks it. You can't stop them from enjoying themselves, you can't forbid them. So we're saying in this motion that we don't punish our own property for shipping and selling tobacco. Bandrol, tax records, whatever you're doing. Say, "The truth of Asia Minor," but we forget the truth of society. There are all kinds of incentives to sell foreign cigarettes so that our property, our own value, is not sold, but all kinds of obstacles are being made so that the helix doesn't sell tobacco.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0311par0074	They're Marlboro people. They're Marlboro people.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0310par0075	I don't understand.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0311par0076	They're Marlboro people.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0312par0077	The AKP drinks Marlboro.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0313par0078	Mr. Veli says Mr. Mevlüt drinks Marlboro!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0314par0079	Mr. Agha, please, let's not make any promises.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0315par0080	Guys, this is not a joke. I'm talking about something very serious. We're looking for solutions to the problem of the people who produce something in this country, produce something for 500 meters, produce something at 1 acre, feed it at 5,000 liras a year, and feed it at 3,000 liras a year. It's all yours. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's all yours. I present to you all the attention. If you like domestic production, if you like domestic goods, come and remove the obstacles. You say freedom, and that's freedom. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0088	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Customs Law No. 1/746, under the First Amendment to certain Laws and Laws Acts, under Article 31 of the Law Bill on Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editing Institution 4733, on Article 8 of the Law, on Alcohol and Tasks of the Law, we propose that all kinds of drugs, alcohol, tobacco and tobacco abuse be replaced in order to fight addiction, and we offer to associations established to fight the abuse of alcohol, alcohol, tobacco and tobacco. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0317par0095	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0096	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0318par0097	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0098	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to ensure that all types of drugs, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco products in the joke are provided to those who have been established to fight their addiction and have been granted public-profit labour status by the Ministry of Health budget, in which all kinds of drug drugs, alcohol, tobacco and tobacco are established in order to combat addiction. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's dated 6/6/2002 and the 7th Amendment to Special Expension Tax No. 4760. Article 1 (c) of the 437 Numbered Law Bill, which envisions the change of the first joke (c) bell. We propose and propose the addition of the statement "to NGOs who look after the public interest of the municipalities" following the declaration "to the villages." İdris Bauken Property One Fair Wolf Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of the 437 Numbered Legislature be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Alim Light Article 32-6/6/2002 and Article 7 (c) of Article 7 of Article 4760 of the Special Consumption Tax Act has been changed in the following way. "c) The free delivery of those who have become liquidated under Customs Law 4458, in certain cases of catastrophes, infectious diseases and so forth, to general and special budgetary administrations, city private administrations, municipalities, villages, and the unions that they have formed, without charge, has the authority to determine the basic and product of the products on the List of Ministers, according to Article 5607, under Article 16/A of the Anti-Trafficking Act. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0319par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0120	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0320par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0122	I'm reading the reason: The production costs are rising because the price of agricultural input in our country is too high. Therefore, the Turkish farmer cannot compete with the manufacturers of foreign countries. The price of the diesel was 1 lira in March 2002. Today, it's $4.24 a gallon. At 1.44 cents an exit rate, a $1.60 U.S.V. is taken from the diesel. With the other shares, a liter of motors is sold for $4.24. Because of these high taxes, our country is the head of countries that use the world's most expensive diesel in agriculture. The annual amount of diesel used by the Turkish farmer is 3,300,000 tonnes. Farmers' gas support only covers 5% of the price paid for the mazota used in agriculture. The EV of the rural engine used by farmers was low according to the euro diesel. As a result of the removal of the rural engine from January 2011, the Turkish farmer had to pay 250m euros of WTV. Ships and yachts are given fuel without SVR. The AKP government, which is trying to obtain VAT from diamonds to diamonds, is now receiving 37.61 per cent of OTV from farmers' engines. According to the French farmer, it uses the diesel at 40% cheaper, while the Polish farmer buys the diesel without an OTV. In order for the Turkish farmer to compete with the world, the mazota that our farmers use should be brought with exception to the OTV. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's dated 6/6/2002 and the 7th Amendment to Special Expension Tax No. 4760. Article 1 (c) of the 437 Numbered Law Bill, which envisions the change of the first joke (c) bell. We propose and propose the addition of the statement "to NGOs who look after the public interest of the municipalities" following the declaration "to the villages." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0321par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0135	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0322par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0137	I'm reading the reason: This statement in the relevant bill is of great importance, especially to municipalities for the free delivery of those who have become liquidators. This arrangement will increase the coordination and public benefits of local governments with NGOs in their area. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Law 437, which is incumbent on some Laws and Laws, under Article 33 and Article 4760 added to Article 13 of the Law. " (B) 50 litres of the property on the basis of the "significant, " and in the name of those who have these goods; for each of these findings, this is added to the Law (III) list (A). 00. 00. 00 (singles made of only tobacco substitutes) G. T. I. P. If the number-one item exceeds 5,000, it is likely to be responsible," he said. Recep of Nurettin Canikli Special Tülay Kaynarca Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0323par0150	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0151	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0324par0152	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0325par0153	Motive.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0154	I'm reading the reason: The first protocol under the United Nations Convention on Tobacco Control Framework was signed in Geneva on 10 January 2013. The protocol in question is 17. In the matter of confiscation, not only can the parties be collected as well as the manufacturers, distributors, importers or exporters as well as the missing taxes. In this scope, it is required to provide penalized tariffs for those who are importing or carrying non-bandrolized goods that are produced in the country. Also, for cigarettes 5,000 (50 packs) and alcoholic beverage products, over 50 litres of unbandolved goods include the application of the inclusion of responsibility for those who import and manufacture these goods. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 38: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose the amendment of Article 38 of the Perpetual Code to Some Laws and Laws shall be changed in the following way. "The following joke is added to Article 5 of Law 38-5015. Refiner license holders are obliged to import raw oil, interstructure, non-fuel products and fuel tanks and license domestic and international sales tanks and report information on the use of tanks to the Institution. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the regulation issued by the institution by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Chairman of the IRS." Mustafa Elitaş Hadji Bayram Türkoğlu İsmail Kashdemir İdris Şahin Fatih Khan Ünal Osman Look at your love Ilyas Sugar İbrahim Korkmaz Bedrettin Yıldırım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 38 of the current 437 rows of the bill be removed from the draft text. Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayayın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Izzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0326par0183	We don't agree with the last reading motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0184	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0327par0185	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0316par0186	Ali Serindağ on the motion, Gaziantep MP...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0328par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. While this clause was discussed in the commission, Republican People's Party MPs warned that the matter would be corrected, the clause came here incorrectly. However, we're learning now that you're correcting the substance with a new motion. Of course it's a good thing that you've come back from the wrong. Congressmans, now, in Gaziantep, there's an institution called Southland, Southland. THE South is a cooperative union that protects the interests of southeast producers, protects the interests of peanut producers, lentil producers, pepper producers, grape growers. But now, unfortunately, this union is inoperable. With nine cooperatives, 17,000 manufacturers, I'm afraid it's out of order right now. Now, as I once said up there, there are concerns as to whether the Gazianteps are sinking? Hopefully, the government will relieve the Gaziantep people's anxiety. Mr. Secretary, customs administrations are important administrations because customs administrations are the side of a country that opens the gates to the outside. That's why we need to strengthen the customs administration. What do you have to do? First, you need to strengthen technical equipment and personnel, you need to employ language-speaking personnel. In particular, people who speak languages that exist at the air customs gates must also be employed at the black customs gates. There are no language-speaking personnel at many black customs gates. Gene, you know, part of customs goods are subject to lab examinations. Therefore, strengthening labs should also be employed in labs by people who are knowledgeable, experienced, know-it-all. And, you know, Mr. Secretary, before your government was formed, before 2002, a protocol between the government and the Chambers and the Stock Exchange Association began to improve the customs doors. The Ipsala Customs Gate began at the gate, and these improvements were made at many customs gates after the Isala Customs Gate. I just said, we have Karkamis Customs Gate in Gaziantep. Please, one day, go and see it. Can't we just call it a customs door? Gaziantep is one of our highest export potentials, commercial potential. Mr. Secretary, you need to turn this customs door from the Class B Customs Gate to the Class A Customs Gate because the Gazianteps already deserve it. Besides, three sides of our country are surrounded by seas. Unfortunately, there aren't enough sea border doors in our country. There should also be a study on this, enough sea border doors should be opened, and the necessary work on making more use of the sea should be done before time is passed. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, I have some work to do there, so I'd like to make a point or two. In 2000, I became Governor of Cırklareli, and the Dereköy Customs Gate will be opened to truck traffic. It hasn't been opened since. Now, you mentioned the road. According to a report from the early 2000s -- I don't remember the date of the UND (now possible 2001), 2002 -- Turkey is losing $300m each year due to the fact that Dereköy Customs Gate is closed to truck traffic. Please, examine this matter. When you were asking questions, you said you'd take a trip there and study the situation when I asked questions about other substances being discussed. Resolving this issue will save Turkey from $300m a year's damage. Also, Mr. Secretary, there is no marina from Burgas, Bulgaria, to Istanbul, there is no marina on the Black Sea coast. However, in Pinaada, as of its location, as of its natural appearance, it may have a suitable marina in its natural nature. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you're traveling there, please check there as well. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0202	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose the amendment of Article 38 of the Perpetual Code to Some Laws and Laws shall be changed in the following way. "The following joke is added to Article 5 of Law 38-5015. "The owners of the Rafierian license are obliged to import raw oil, interstructure, non-fuel and fuel tanks and license domestic and international sales tanks and report information on the use of tanks to Kurum. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the regulation issued by the institution by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Customs and Trade, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Chairman of the IRS." Ismail Kashdemir (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0330par0211	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0212	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0331par0213	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0214	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to make changes easier, depending on the changing conditions, by recommending the procedure and the basis for the obligation of the owners of the refinery to make notifications, by taking the view of the relevant institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "and immediately" to come after the declaration of "right" in Article 39 of the current 437 rows of the Bill of Law. Erkan Akçay Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Alim Light Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0332par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0228	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0333par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0230	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0334par0231	Motive...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0232	I'm having it read. It's important to have access to the system as quickly as it's wanted directly. It shouldn't be a waste of time. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 42: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 of the Common Law Bill 437 be changed in the following way. "The fourth joke of Article 42-5015 of the Law has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added to the same article after its fifth joke. "The complementary part of the national oil stock is kept by refinery and is determined by the accession of the complementary portion, the need for resources, financing costs and the cost of storage and maintenance of the stocks, added to consumer prices (the Kurul determines up to 10 US dollars/tons). And it's covered by revenues left in the institution's use. In the case of imports outside the refinery, this income is paid by the company importer. The income will be reduced to the level that will provide sufficient storage facilities and supplies to ensure survival costs." "As part of the national oil stockpile arrangement, the Institution is authorized to oversee the stocks which the owners of refinery, fuel and LPG distributor licenses and free users are obliged to keep and to regulate the product genus and the bonding of products in such a way that there is no reduction in the amount of stocks to be kept." Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Necati Özensoy You've summoned Lightning Münir Kutluata Ahmet Duran Bulut Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 42 of the current 437 rows of the bill be removed from the draft text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Kazim Kurt Aydın Agha Ayadın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0335par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0259	Government?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0336par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0329par0261	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0337par0263	Mr. President, very valuable members, my dear friends, what is this material and what is it? Listen carefully, if you don't mind. The national stock is 20 percent, except the distributors, the refinery, the dealerships, everyone has to keep stock. You know what? This isn't about the Ministry, and I'm telling you, it's not about the Customs Department, it's about getting into the bag. They raised money from the dealerships, from everyone, 500 million, with the current money. WHEN did TAPRAC become special, how many years has it been since TAPRAS became special?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0338par0265	That's a tough question.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0337par0266	The money taken from the public, taken from the dealership, is still kept in the accounts of the distributor, friends, the state's national stock, is kept in the account of a privatized company, yours. Years of privatisation. The money that is collected from the public is converted into money, called national stock. 500 million money is kept in the accounts of TEPRASH, and I repeat it again. What's it called? Who's judging? How much is the contribution? That money's right there. Who owns it? It's owned by TAPRAS. It's not a national stockpile, it's owned by TAPRAS. If there's money in my account, I own it. It's been going on for years. I discovered it, and the Minister had no knowledge. The Minister is deeply disturbed by this matter. Guys, is that a thing? It's a private company. You sold it. Back in the day, you served in public for the public, and if he did, you gave him a job to do, but he's still waiting. Mr. Minister asked the interested ones at that time, they said, "We'll do a study, we'll bring it." Perhaps they didn't know either, if the Minister hadn't asked. That's the way it is. I offer the situation to all of you. 500 million dollars of this country's national stock is sitting there. Friends, Minister, do we have to keep national stock now? There's no need. If you're going to take money from the dealership, there's no need to block it in a bank on behalf of the dealership; give it back. If oil is to be imported, it imports interested institutions, sells them to dealerships. Years ago, perhaps in the 1930s, everyone was obliged to keep 20 per cent of stock for every dealership in the absence of oil. When did this law come out? The conditions of that day are not today's. For years, the money collected... maybe a lot of people who pay aren't dealerships today. Guys, it's like this. The government's 500 million is in the safe of a company that specializes 500 million people. Appreciation is all yours. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0339par0271	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 of the Common Law Bill 437 be changed in the following way. "The fourth joke of Article 42-5015 of the Law has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added to the same article after its fifth joke. "The complementary part of the national oil stock is kept by refinery and is determined by the accession of the complementary portion, the need for resources, financing costs and the cost of storage and maintenance of the stocks, added to consumer prices (the Kurul determines up to 10 US dollars/tons). And it's covered by revenues left in the institution's use. In the case of imports outside the refinery, this income is paid by the company importer. The income will be reduced to the level that will provide sufficient storage facilities and supplies to ensure survival costs." As part of the national stockpile of oil, refinery, fuel and LPG are authorized to control the stocks that are required to be owned by the owners and free users and to regulate the bonding of products and products in such a way that the amount of stocks to be kept will not be reduced." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0340par0280	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0339par0281	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0341par0282	We disagree, Mr. President, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0339par0283	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0341par0284	In fact, that's true, as far as both proposals are concerned, so this area needs to be organized, and our Energy Ministry has a new law on its agenda, an arrangement, and there's a solution. But let me add this: this money is not in TUPRASH's account; it is in the Bank of Agriculture.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0342par0286	It's your account, though. It's in the trust account, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0341par0287	And the money collected there every year...
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0342par0288	No, it's the account.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0341par0289	No, it's in the escrow account and it's being distilled, and every year the Energy Ministry shares its accounting records with the EPDK, and so there's a follow-up, but there's an arrangement for how to use it. In this regard, your suggestion is correct, but I don't think it has a place here. That's why I can't agree. I'll tell you why he's here, if he's not involved. The knowledge of the stocks of the EPDK (EPDK) is important for the success of fuel smuggling. The EPDK is authorized to know the stocks here. He's on our bill for her. I can't agree with the motions. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0343par0292	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0344par0293	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, if you hadn't warned me, would the gentlemen have known?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0341par0294	They do, they do, they do.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0344par0295	No, they didn't, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0345par0296	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0346par0299	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since this is a very important matter, I have taken my word at this hour, and I salute you all. Under Article 42 of the bill, the EPDK is authorized to oversee the stocks it is obliged to have with its refinery, fuel and LPG distributor licenses and free users, and to regulate the product genus and the bonding of products, without reducing the amount of those stocks to which they will be kept. The Law on Oil Market, issued in 2003, made it mandatory to maintain continuity in the market, to avoid crises or extreme risks, and to maintain at least 90 days' supply of net imports in the previous year's average use, with the aims of obligations related to the state of emergency oil stocks, according to international agreements. The National Oil Stock Commission is responsible for holding oil stocks. The Commission consists of the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Energy, as well as representatives of the National Defence, Internal Affairs, Finance and Foreign Affairs Departments and the Department of Finances, the General Directorate of Oil Affairs and the EPDK. For national stock, the refinery, fuel and LPG distributor licenses are obliged to keep 20 times the daily average amount of products provided by owners of the daily supply in their own warehouses or licensed storage facilities separately or separately according to their status. The law stipulated that the complementary part of the national stock should be kept by refinery and that funding costs could be created due to the completion of the complementary part, and that the cost of storage and maintenance of the stocks should be met with revenues added to consumer prices and remaining in the use of refinerys. There's no clear information on whether or not the national oil stock in our country is being stocked in the law is, unfortunately, out of the question. Since there is no inspection, there is a negative situation, such as a stockpile on paper. The regulation for the inspection is brought in exactly ten years later. Thus, after a decade or so of Law 5015, it appears that these stocks have not been created. Turkey does not have such a stockpile, while most states have an oil supply that will run their country for at least three months. There is no reason why such a vital national stock could not be created in order to be used in extraordinary situations, with many threats to our country. The government has not done its duty, it has committed a crime, it has committed a crime. It has also been discovered that fuel and LPG prices have not been reflected and have not been claimed for 500 million liras. According to information, this money is in a bank account in the name of the privatized company. Mr. Secretary, this information is very clear, this money is in TUPRASH's bank account. He's lying in an agricultural bank, that's true, but he's registered to TUPRAS. It is not known why this money was left in the name of a private company, whether the funds needed to be transferred into this account were transferred, whether the deposits were being moisturized in the most appropriate way. I'm afraid the commission hasn't been given enough information. It's a scandal. The public source is in a private company bank account. In addition to the price of fuel, the money collected from the citizen remains untraceable and unclaimed. We're correcting this with a motion from the National Movement Party. In the information given to the commission -- once again -- I have a strong confidence that you precious lawmakers will also show the necessary sensitivity and support our motion to claim this money, which is still at 500 million lira. Please don't take credit for the government's absence, anything is expected of this government, you decide according to your conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0311	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0348par0313	The money's gone!
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0314	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 43: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose that "one and two jokes" under Article 43 of the Law and Law Code shall be replaced as "first, second and fourth jokes" and added the following joke to the article. Mustafa Elitaş Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Bkent Turan ŞümümünÜ Ünal Sıtký Güvenç Hakan Sergeantoğlu Rifat Sait Hamza Mountain Bayram Özçelik The 19th Article provisions are implemented when tests in the samples are determined by laboratory analysis, where national markers are not necessarily on the necessary and level." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0349par0326	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0327	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0350par0328	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0329	I'm reading the reason: Since Article 19 of Law 5015 is stated to be incompatible with the missing marker and the technical criteria to implement Article 19 of the Court of Appeals, there is no administrative fine in the absence of markers, and there is hesitation in the application. The change in the fourth joke aims to address the uncertainty involved. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 44 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 437 Sequential Code of Customs and the 44th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. The 19th Amendment to Article 5015. We propose and propose that the second clause (d) bendi (f) be removed from the text of matter, and that the following joke be added to the article as the final joke. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Kazim Kurt Bulent Kuşoğlu Müslim Sarı Musa Çam For the Bayis, one fifth of the above sentences are applied, except for those related to trafficking. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0351par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0344	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0352par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0353par0346	Motive.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0347	I'm having it read. The 19th Law on Oil Marketing No. 5015. There is already a sentence in the article that the fines for dealerships will be imposed by one fifth of them. The law also provides punishments for other crimes and crimes other than trafficking. It is also due to the dispersal of economic power from the dealers and refinerys, and the law must be protected on that basis. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0354par0352	I have a request for a statement according to 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0347par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0354par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. The 31st article that we discussed in this chapter, Tobacco and Alcohol Market Editorial Institution 4733, is making a change in a provision of the Law on the Organization and its duties. A motion issued by the ruling party also changed the commission text. I'd like to express that we don't approve of this change or the arrangement in matter. For this reason: According to the clause, the Ministry of Health is authorized to provide assistance to public-use associations to fight addiction to drugs, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco, according to the Commission's text, either in a different form or in a proposal. Of course, fighting alcohol abuse, fighting tobacco and smoking addiction is a right approach for health reasons, as a result of its health purposes. However, it is absolutely wrong for public associations to be excluded from Article 29 of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 of Turkey's Yeyilay Association, according to a different version of the motion adopted by the General Assembly. Because the 29th article of the Public Financial Management and Control Law shall determine that matters concerning the use of and auditing of assistance shall be regulated by a regulation taken out by the Council of Ministers on the issues and the results of the audit. So, if the public source is donated to a useful society, it is the right of the citizens to know how to use it, the right of the nation to know how to use it. Now, you're going to help the Green Moon Society, and people won't know where this help is being used, if it's being used properly. The arrangement is intended to ensure that this use is taken from the public eye. I certainly don't think that's true. I'm critical of the government's position and the ruling party's position. I suggest we go back to this clause with the technical debate and arrange for these spending results that have been missed in public to be brought back to the public's knowledge. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0355par0359	Thank you. There's a motion on Article 45, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Customs Act 1/746, we propose and propose that the amendments to certain Laws and Laws shall be changed in the following manner, which is added to Article 5015 and Article 20 of the Law. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Oya Eronat Ahmet Haldun Erturk Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen Sermin Bült Turan Nurdan Şanlı ▪ The temporary pause is given according to the results of the karan acremental laboratory analysis, if the verb for smuggling is only related to the national marker level. Executive measures to prevent illegal fuel sales are taken by the Institution until the results of the lab analysis are announced. If the national marker control result of the mobile control device is invalidated, the sample will be delivered to the lab within five work days at the latest. The lab does the analysis that has been asked to be done in 15 days without changing its sample properties and reports the result within three workdays at the latest." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0356par0372	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0355par0373	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0357par0374	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-03-27sit06spe0355par0375	I'm reading the reason: The amendment organises the expectation of the results of arredity lab analysis if the trafficking verb is only related to the national marker level and the adoption of administrative measures by the Institution until the report is completed. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, this concludes the vote of the substances in the second chapter. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
