tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the problems in Maltepe district of İstanbul and especially the incidents in Gülsuyu and Gülensu. I'd like to address two of the hundreds of problems in Maltepe County. Maltepe has been struggling with traffic problems for many years. The Maltepens say that investments in other counties are not being made to them, that they are not getting the services they deserve from the municipality. A few days before his 2009 local election, Mr. Kadir Topbaş promised to allocate central vehicle traffic to the pedestrians at Maltepe Square, Baghdad Street -- such as Beyoğlu in Maltepe. After four years, the commitment was not fulfilled, but a sub-ground parking project planned for 12 locations was not implemented. It will not be surprising that the government also linked the traffic density of Maltepe to the Travel Spirit. Again, on the coast of Maltepe, despite the objection of all Maltepes, NGOs, the municipality, although there are no CED reports, a filling site has been created, even though there are no zoning plans and projects. The filling areas are particularly causing ecological destruction on the coast. Dear lawmakers, the events in Gülsuyu neighborhood, where problems have arisen since 2009, have reached far-reaching levels in recent days, until long-standing injuries, beatings, threats, abuses, deaths occurred. In protests against drug gangs in Maltepe Gülsuyu neighbourhood three weeks ago, events that resulted in three gunshot wounds to the head of Hasan Ferit Gedik. Right after that, two people who wanted to put up a poster for the march on our dead teenager were attacked by three people, and their faces became unrecognizable by the beating. After the injury incident, we're going to have the gang driving around the neighborhood and we're going to do a massacre. It's in the statements of the residents. The only positive development in all these difficult times has been that Gökhan Aktaş, who has been treated for nearly a month, has been removed from intensive care and his health has improved. I pray to Hasan Farit, once again, for mercy from this place, and for immediate healing for the wounded. Dear lawmakers, representatives of the association and members of the city council in my one-on-one talks have described the problems of the city's municipality not being able to solve the zoning and property problem. In front of them, it has been specifically said that the biggest problem of property is that the zoning problem cannot be solved by the main city. The stories, the allegations that are going around, are pretty severe, especially in a country that claims to be a state of law. It's not the kind of news that's gonna be on the front page for a few days and then forgotten. Victims and relatives have informed me that they are concerned that if they file a complaint, their safety will be compromised. The day before yesterday, 23. After 00, even the vans were blocked by the police, and the State of Emergency Act continued semi-official. Despite this police blockade, the people in a vehicle that was supposed to have a fake license plate have been nervous with slogans in the neighborhood, and unfortunately the police have been watching. The shop is said to have been blocked by large police vehicles, and the trade is interrupted. The anxiety in the neighborhood is disrupting the tradesman's business. Dear lawmakers, see, the events here are not just a drug issue, they are being harassed even in women's homes, they are trying to create prostitution and child pornography markets. What is the reason for the release of many of the suspects who were taken into custody after the death of Hasan Ferit Gedik? What is the reason why three CHP MPs filed a report in August and why our research motion was rejected? Are the reports and solutions proposed by the IHD to be taken seriously? WHAT is the reason why the MOSESEs, however, did not work at the time of the attack? Why is it that those who arrest people, raid their homes, take even the slightest criticism of social media, including the fact that they consider the slightest element of crime in social media, and why do they not even feel the need to investigate social media photos and very interesting names and connections after Hasan Ferit Gedik's death? Dear lawmakers, these tensions lie in new and unstoppable circumstances; responsibility lies in power. The police need to stop protecting someone and protect the public and get ahead of things as soon as possible. Everyone must know that there is no way to leave the area through tyranny, including those who wait with their mouths flowing for the runt. Yours truly.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. On behalf of the government, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar will respond. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I'd like to thank our very dear congresswoman friends, especially our congressman, for expressing issues concerning Istanbul Maltepe. The filling on the coast of Maltepe is a fully recreative filling, with a development plan, with a CED report. This will be a completely green area, which will be brought to Istanbul, and to the people of Maltepe. Although the fillings are 10 per cent, 20 per cent ecologically reserved, they are all over the world, especially in metropolitan and megapol cities, where cities, cities, cities, cities, populations, cities with more than 5 million people, cities with more than 10 million inhabitants, new jobs to breathe in, recreation areas, people's breathing, on holidays, Saturdays, Sundays, children can be heard. Istanbul City has had such a request from our Ministry. So we evaluated this demand, we gave the CED report, we made the zoning plans, we looked at their ecological woes, and we gave them permission. With this mark, the filling of an area close to 1 million square metres is finished. After that, Istanbul will be given a beautiful green area. Again, Istanbul has a particularly serious effort to build a parking lot recently. But as you know, our country is a democratic country and a country with the right to property ahead. We have serious difficulties in this regard, an extremely intense migration to Istanbul. We're going to put new materials in the Building Law to build new parking lots. With the benefit of our citizen, we will encourage private parking by citizen. In this direction, we've had healing talks with our municipality of Maltepe, and we've had zoning talks. Istanbul's subway is also run very quickly, and it's clear that when we get the level we want on the subway in İstanbul, Istanbul will get to a much more comfortable transport, traffic density, hopefully, a reduced position in both parking and transportation, as well as in the world's largest megapolices. In this regard, I send my love, greetings, and respects to the Maltepens from here. As soon as we can, we'll be relaxing traffic in Maltepe. The subway of Kadıköy, Maltepe and Tuzla, which we also built in Maltepe, will continue at the current pace of the bridge crossings. I have been promised to inform you in this regard in the High Council. Again, thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0005par0034	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar. The second unscheduled statement belongs to Erzurum MP Fazilet Dağcı Shriş, who asked for a comment on the 129th General Assembly Meeting of the International Assembly in Geneva. (AK PARTY clapping in rows. Here you go, Mr. Scream.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book oath to inform you of the work and talks of the 129th General Assembly of the Republic as a member of the Turkish Group of Parliamentary Union. On this occasion, I salute you. The PAB is an international organisation with the parliaments of 163 independent countries. He is working very closely with the United Nations. In this framework, the PAB discusss current, political and economic issues on the international agenda in its general boards. At the end of each general assembly, the world brings its decisions to the attention of the public. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been recommended nine urgent agendas for the 129th General Assembly Meeting of the Union. As a result of the vote on these proposals, the role of parliaments has been accepted and taken into consideration in the monitoring and banning of chemical weapons, which are jointly proposed by the Nordic countries, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. As you know, on the night of August 20th, there was a human drama in Syria that threatened world peace and security. Hundreds of civilians were killed by the use of chemical weapons by Syrian regime forces. It is important to address the issue in the PAB General Assembly after Syria's attack on all humanity. As a Turkish delegation, we fully supported this agenda, stressed that the chemical weapons attack in Syria was unacceptable, and strongly condemned those who carried out the attack. We also had the opportunity to express our views and concerns about the sanctions that need to be taken on this issue at a general meeting attended by 1,200 lawmakers. In particular, we stressed that Turkey sided with all agreements on weapons of mass destruction. Immediately after these developments, we made a decision with a majority of votes, condemning the use of chemical weapons and stressing the need for zero tolerance for chemical weapons. In addition, the same decision was called for the participation of the Syrian Arab Republic in the chemical arms convention and the fulfilment of all provisions of this convention. The Inter Parliamentary Union knows and cares about the creation of parliamentary awareness, the handling of chemical weapons that threaten world peace and security in all dimensions. For this reason, the issue has been carefully discussed during the general assembly at both permanent committee meetings and panel meetings. However, it will be discussed in general at the 130th General Assembly Meeting in March 2014, and it will be discussed in general of reports that will be reached. As a Turkish delegation, we continue our efforts to make the necessary contribution in these talks. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as it is known, we hosted the Conference of Minimum Advanced Countries in Istanbul, where 10,000 people attended in 2011. The Istanbul Action Plan, adopted at the end of this conference, continues to contribute to Turkey. We worked with the United Nations as the PAB Turkish Group to prepare for the parliamentary dimension of the conference. Therefore, meetings for the implementation of the Istanbul Action Plan are held on each PAB general board. We are participating in these talks to discuss Turkey's contributions to this action programme. In particular, during this general assembly, during the meeting, we stressed that the United Nations decision to co-operate with TİKA was the result of Turkey's importance and contribution to the issue. Mr. President, we've had bilateral talks with the delegation of many countries attending the meeting during the 129th PAB General Assembly. However, in our extensive talks with the British, France and Pakistan delegations, we have discussed the major developments in the world's agenda, especially Turkey, and we have had the opportunity to pass on our proposals. On this occasion, I say I am pleased to convey our work to our great Parliament and salute our beloved nation.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Scream. The third unscheduled statement is from Manisa MP Hasan Ören, who asked for a speech due to a mining accident in Soma district of Manisa. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0008par0054	Mr. President, I have taken a stand outside the agenda of the accident at the mine in Soma district of Manisa. I salute the grand jury. My dear friends, these mortal accidents are endless in Soma County, where labor and sweat are intense. Again, on Sunday morning, October 20th, there was another fatal accident that burned the hearts of the Somans and of us. As members of the Republican People's Party, we arrived in Soma earlier this morning, but the people of Soma also know that these accidents in Soma are no longer fate, that there is no fate, that there is no destiny, and that there are ten of our fellow MPs who are political in Manisa. Seven of the eight accidents take place in the same mine. We're asking the regional manager: they're making incriminating statements about the mine. Yes, it's called Warn Mining, they say it's because the owner of the mining company in Soma is not taking the necessary work safety measures. We're meeting with the TKI General Manager: TKI General Manager says the contract of this company will be closed at the end of the year, that the company has not really taken job security on business accidents. I'm talking to the Energy Minister at this time: I'm saying that this mine has a criminal record for these business accidents; I'm taking it further, because some of our friends from the Manisa lawmakers have taken political support from some of our friends, and these people who have lost their lives, they don't have to suffer from Soma and their families, but they don't. My dear friends, please refrain from pressuring the political employer. The owners of the mines are not required to transport workers who wear their helmets to AKP rallies in Manisa. The money they're going to pay the workers they're going to carry here, the money they're going to pay for the buses they're going to be holding, they're going to have to take precautions in their own company, in their own furnaces. On the 20th of the month, we lost a friend named Jonah Power, 49 years old, because of the fire. He's a father of six. There will be no more Ramadan in his house, and there will be no more the feast of sacrifice, and that house will live with it all the feasts. Is politics that insensitive? Lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party, Manisa MPs, do they have to stand behind this company? 11 fatal cases took place in this company from 2011 to 2013. The same events don't apply in other companies. Xenel Uzbek, who was wounded when we went from the workers there and met with him, says: "When I have finished my work, when I knock on my house, my children and my wife hold on my neck, and pray to God that I have come home safely today." And what the workers who work in the government mine there say is very important, they say that if you give the administrators information on business security in the government mine, if you tell them there's a lack of information, they'll give the employee who says there's a lack of executives, they'll give them a reward, but when they try to present information about business security in the mine that's a criminal record, they're out of business security. My dear friends, Soma, it is not the destiny or destiny of subcontractors who work in mines. The Justice and Development Party is obliged to be with the workers who work here in Soma. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Part of the Manisa MPs of the Justice and Development Party are responsible for the disappearance of those 11 souls by the side of the bosses. I also resent that this should not be resolved immediately and that the Minister of Energy -- although I have said so many times -- is insensitive to the matter. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to lawmakers who have entered the system. Dear Light...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, many of our young people who graduate from our universities each year suffer from a shortage of employment. One of these unemployed young groups is agricultural engineers. Despite repeated commitments by the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism for 2013, these young people have not been appointed and have not been employed until now. Tired of coming and going between finance and agriculture ministries, these young people think the government is making fun of them. I think both ministries should be dealt with and fulfilled by the end of the year. I'd like to call upon the government to appoint these staffs who have the rights to be approved by agricultural engineers, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there are many complaints from our citizens regarding the house of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, the house in Thessaloniki. As it is known, that house was used as a museum, renovated, renovated three years ago. It was re-opened in August with the participation of the Minister of Culture and Tourism, but its appearance after it was opened seems to be very reactive by our citizens. None of the Ataturk's personal belongings were left at home, so there is nothing on the ground floor that he uses as an Ataturk and a nursery. All the stuff about him has been taken out, slides and boards. In fact, you remember, I think it was 2006, when the Prime Minister, who was angry with a citizen's writing in his journal, tore up that page. We also see that the journal has been removed. Now, our citizens ask: Why were a large number of items removed, including these personal items belonging to Ataturk, including the cradle, in childhood? Why aren't these items exhibited? Why was the scrapbook removed? That's what our citizens are asking.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, because of the dams built on the Çoruh River in Artvin, our town of Yusufeli will be under the dams. Our people who live in Josephi demand that this uncertainty be resolved without delay, without delay, be begun with the formalisation process. Other than that, a very serious problem stemming from the Publicisation Law has been faced by the citizens in Yusufeli, Artvin. Unfortunately, the state has been forced to follow up on the citizen's execution. According to the previous law, a citizen who did not accept the controversial price was going to court, and he received it when the second increase was after the initial price, but at the moment, a citizen who did not accept the price of the appreciation commission for the amendment to the Publicisation Act, after which the price was increased, the irreconcilable price is paid with the first court decision, but before the Supreme Court breaks its decision, unfortunately, the subcommittee's part is being carried out. That's why the state and the citizen are facing each other. There's been a severe victimization situation. It is imperative that a change be made in the provisions of the Law of Publicisation. I demand that the government consider this.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0015par0087	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0016par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. It's October 23rd. Two years ago today, in the wake of the earthquake in Van....I am congratulating 604 of our dead citizens....and congratulating their relatives. But there is one sad thing: On 22 August 2013, when we went to Van as the Republican People's Party commission and followed in the press today, I respectfully announce that we are at a place where the electricity and water of some 150-200 families in the containers have been cut off and left alone in the inhuman environment, while Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism in charge of the Turkish Environment and Urbanism is here, at the point of immediate repair of this disgrace, please do what needs to be done. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0017par0093	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0018par0096	Mr. President, thank you, thank you. Now, Mr. President, it's the end of Eid's Day. These animals were sold, controlled by the market, in markets, in particular in this Adana region, which we call unregistered, the Syrian, the Iraqi, the Iranian, whatever, but there were no buyers, especially the other goat, who was fed as a sacrifice. This is the Meat and Fish Association. I'm buying cattle. Won't the Minister of Agriculture release this goat and cattle purchase? I'm just saying that to make him think about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0019par0099	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0020par0102	Thank you, Mayor. The information Mr. Minister Bayraktar just gave about Maltepe's sea filling area is not true. The answer to the question made by themselves is exactly what I say -- the CED report is not necessary. There is a declaration. So there is no engineering design that can withstand the tsunami of this one square mile [1 km] of sea filling and an earthquake during the expected large Istanbul earthquake. The plague of this belongs to the Minister's office. There are also 280 or 300 households that still have to live in containers after the two - year - old Van and Ercish earthquake. Victims that Turkey does not deserve continue to be human drama. Because they couldn't have a home.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0021par0106	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0022par0109	Mr. President, while our Minister of Environment and Urbanism is here, I'd like to ask specifically. In Çanakkale, the Kaz Mountains are a fertile area, where milk and vegetables are abundant, but even so, there have been eleven contests about permission for an outside-dependent plant that can work with coal and sea water. In the last village of Babadere, especially in Ayvacık, will you report to a thermal plant like this, where such an agricultural environment is famous and the new indoor irrigation is over, and the fish is abundant in Turkey and the world and vegetables are introduced to the world and it is famous for its cheese and has such products on one side, especially when the wonder of nature is such an externally dependent plant? Because the emissions volume of the province of Çanakkale are sufficient for no thermal power plant except for other thermal plants established at the bell.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0021par0112	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0023par0115	Thank you. Mr. President, I told you yesterday. Sadly, the actions of workers in this Tunceli company continue to slow the business down, and the employer is not making any effort. Today, in our Ovacık district, in many counties, in Mazgirt and villages, many villages in central districts have lost electricity for days. We need to find a cure for these citizens. What are these people going to do? All the equipment they had was destroyed, they threw it away. Who's gonna pay for all this? Earlier in Ovacık, a friend named Ibrahim Atan was removed from the Ovacık. Unfortunately, our friend was killed because the fugitive pole was electrocuted. Now, who are we going to tell? This government needs to take over. There's no electricity here for about a month. I mean, what's going to happen to these people? To the height, these citizens' winter needs, they're all rotten, they've thrown away. Who's gonna pay for all this? What kind of a deaf government is that? Get him out there and give these people a little support.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0021par0117	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0024par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. While our Minister of Environment and Urbanism is here, I'd like to show him some photographs. Minister, today is October 23rd, the 2nd anniversary of the Van earthquake. Our citizens in the containers are currently on hunger strike because their electricity was cut because they were asked to be removed from containers. They can't send their children to school, so they're on hunger strike because their water's been cut off. You said that you would build a house from the TOKI, but why did these TOKI houses not come out to these people? Why do these people have to be thrown out of these containers right now? What do you think of the solution to these people's problems? Are you going to condemn them to death fasts? It is your duty to solve the problem of our citizens. Who will be given these containers after they are taken from our citizens? Is it to be given to the Syrians? There are rumors of that kind. It is said that there will be rent assistance, but there is no telling how much it will be done or how much it will be done.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0021par0123	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0025par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. On 29 June 2012, applications for the return of taxes to the IRS paid by pension and insurance companies were terminated on 29 August 2013, when they were released from the insurance system. However, complaints about not being paid are being delivered to my side. There are still thousands of people who haven't been paid. How many people can't be paid? When are these people expected to be paid? What's the reason for this delay? Do you consider giving additional time or other convenience to those who have not applied? Finally, what is your opinion on the criticism of the delay in payments that will reduce confidence in the system? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0026par0129	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0027par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, my friends mentioned that today is the 2nd anniversary of the Van earthquake. The first earthquake left 604 people dead, 4,152 injured. To those who have died, I wish you God's mercy again, and my condolences to your relatives. But after the first earthquake, you know, there was a second earthquake on November 9th. After this first earthquake, Mr. Minister Besir Atalay, AFAD officials and the Governor of Van can enter your home." In the second earthquake, the people entered his house, and in the second earthquake, you know, the Bayram Hotel was destroyed, where 24 people were killed, including people from the Japanese relief organization, and this Bayram Hotel case ended 15 days ago, and the only person, the owner of Bayram Hotel Bayram Bayram, was sentenced to 11 years and three months and ten days in prison, but the real responsible public officials, Van Governor, the AFAD officials, were not processed for reckless and reckless death.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0026par0135	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0028par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Kadir Özcan, who served as both a football player and a technical man for many years, and who was my teammate and finally the coach of the 1461 Tripoli team, died of a heart attack last night. I wish him God's mercy, his family, his kinsmen, and his friends, my condolences on Turkish football. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0029par0141	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0030par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy to Mr. Kadir Ozcan, who died yesterday, from the legendary football players of Tripoli, and from the coach of the 1461 Tripoli team, to his family, to his loved ones, to his loved ones, to be patient. Today is the 2nd anniversary of the Van earthquake on 23 October 2011. On both October 23, 2011 and the second earthquake that followed him on November 9, 2011, a total of 644 citizens lost their lives in the Van quakes, many of our citizens were injured, property losses, and we suffered a great deal of pain. However, these pains have not yet been overcome. According to newspapers, at least 160 families are still living in containers where they were then placed under the influence of the Van earthquake. It is truly sad that these citizens continue to live in containers in such harsh conditions as electricity, water, or civilized conditions, and winter approaches, and there is no solution. I, Mr. Secretary, would like to invite the government on this matter. We want their solutions, their opinions here. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0031par0148	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0032par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. In our province of Balıkesir, in our Gulf region, the olive harvest days began. If there's no air-plowing, our manufacturers say olivery will be over. From 2012, the ban on the pesticide against the olive fly reduces efficiency in the production of olives. This year, our producers say efficiency is very low and the harvest will be bad. The government's support and awareness for organic exterminating is also vital for dealing with olive diseases and harmful ones. Will the air-explosion be released again by plane? Will the government support the incentive to use organic medicine that does not harm nature? If the exterminator is going to be organic, is there going to be a study for the government to pay for the difference? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0033par0155	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I would like to extend my condolences to Allah and to his loved ones, to the coach and the legendary football player of Tripoli. In addition, the farming season in Tokat has ended in many parts of Asia Minor, where people are preparing for next season. However, in the province of Tokat, the Kelkit Valley, Zile, in the plains of Artova, people who deal in vegetable and fruiting have been burdened with a huge debt because they are not able to sell and produce their products. These people are facing a huge debt to the private sector, banks, agricultural loan co-ops. In this direction, they've also begun the follow-up. They expect work from the government to stop the follow-up of execution and delay the debt or consolidate it. I wanted to present it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0035par0162	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0036par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know, the province of Çanakkale is a province that has made history in the world. It is one of the most important provinces in the world, with its nature, its sea, especially the Kaz Mountains. Gold exploration and business licenses, given by your government in the Kaz Mountains, make the Kaz mountains a living hell and a paradise for the sixths. These licenses must be revoked immediately. Secondly, the city of Çanakkale is now authorized to build and build a thermal power plant of approximately 8,000 megawatts. Along with the thermal plants affecting the surrounding Çanakkale, it reaches 14,000 megawatts, which is a disaster for Çanakkale. In Çanakkale, the licenses of those who will be established next must be revoked immediately. If you do not choose this path, I suggest that you change the name of Çanakkale to either the term of gold or thermic gold.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0037par0168	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0038par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, 1/100. The 1,000-scale Mersin-Adana environmental scheme has been suspended. The government, which suspended the plan just before the festival, tried to hide from the public that it had marked the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. From here, I'm speaking to all the Mersinites, without any party distinctions, to object to the plan marked by this nuclear plant that will kill you and your children, which will cause cancer. The rays that will come out of this plant will cause both AKPli and CHP's children to have cancer without any party distinction. I, Mersin MP, will object to this plan. I also condemn the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, who is here now, for supporting this plant that has massacred the environment.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0039par0176	Mr. President, as it is known throughout Turkey is the industrial capital of Turkey. Although it is only three months old, metal dust is falling on the inhabitants of the city's city centre, which has a considerable company of numerous organised industrial regions and 500 large companies of Turkey, although it has been created from a cold-carved steel factory that produces stainless steel. Even though we had stated it over and over again in the founding phase before the factory was produced, the Minister of Industry, who was the minister of this city, attended the groundbreaking ceremony there, where the foundation of the factory was laid and built before the CED report was received. Today, the dust rain continues because three months after the production of the CED report failed to carry out its tasks. This, of course, is an example of the massacre of the city of Izmit under the name of investment and employment, because these industrial facilities in the center of the city are making the city uninhabitable and turn it into a cancer plain. The minister who allowed it, the governor and the capital city...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0037par0178	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0040par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. During my visits to my constituency, I have conducted some study in our elementary schools, especially in the villages and villages, and in our elementary schools, and the view that we have seen has indeed made us aware that the national education system has collapsed. In particular, in some of our schools in the villages, the only substitute teachers are trying to study in the same class as 1st, 2st, 3nth, 4th and fourth graders. In particular, the lack of teachers appears in Tekirdağ district, where there is a serious shortage of technical equipment at the school's point of receiving services. I wish that the government would take steps to solve the problems of students who can study in schools rather than deal with other schools in the province of Tekirdağ or in the same position as other schools in Turkey.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0037par0183	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0041par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 2nd year of the Van earthquake. As the National Movement Party, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who lost their lives two years ago. No such disaster or pain ever again, of course. And I wish all Vanians a life of peace and security. However, after two years of the earthquake, unfortunately, we're investigating that his injuries haven't been healed yet. He believes that more effective measures should be taken, especially in the care of these wounds. On the other hand, in the second earthquake, especially our journalists, unfortunately, two of our journalists were killed in the earthquake. During the trial, there was no warrant to investigate public officials. There's only one possibility, a parliamentary investigation. I wish that the AKP Group would open up the possibility of a parliamentary investigation, allowing those responsible to answer for it, if there is one, to open the way for accountability from those responsible. We also have casualties and wounded in the accident that took place in the mine at Manisa Soma. I mean, really, keep a man alive so that the state can live. Unfortunately, those who give a shit are extremely stingy about taking safety precautions that will keep a man alive. On this occasion, I pray for God's mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. I also offer my condolences and my condolences to all Tripolinspor and his family, sir, for the passing of Mr. Kadir Ozcan, the coach of Tripolinspor, and for the passing of Mr. Kadir Ozcan.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0042par0191	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0043par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTY Group, also head of the 1461 Tripolinspor, and at the same time, ask Allah's mercy on the legendary footballer of Tripolispor, to extend our condolences to his family and to the entire sports community. Again, just two years ago, the earthquake in Van Nah, the disaster, has broken the heart of our whole country, our entire nation, and there have been suffering. My Lord has mercy on those who die in the earthquake. I offer my condolences to their families and to our beloved nation once again, and we pray that such a disaster will never repeat itself again. As the government, from the early hours of the earthquake, almost a large portion of our government was in Van, with our Prime Minister's orders, and for a long time there, they had mobilized all the means to heal the wounds permanently. Mr. Prime Minister, Hakeza has been there and there many times, and at the point of the construction of the van, he has avoided no price, nor will he be spared. In this process, both economically, in education, health, transport, especially in housing, construction, housing, and care centers have been done, as well. Of course, for the Vans, all of Turkey was a disaster. I say to all of them, once again, to make sure that these disasters don't happen, and as a government, all of our units, especially our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, are mobilised, and in that particular sense, at the point of healthy construction, at the point of urban transformations, at the point of which the TOPI will meet the need for housing there again. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0044par0200	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0045par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0044par0202	If you can open the system or answer from your position, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0045par0203	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer from there.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0046par0204	Your position, please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0044par0205	You can also answer your position because everyone asked where you were, and you have the right to answer. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0047par0208	Mr. President, very dear MPs, first of all, I would like to thank the MPs who have expressed our pain in the 2nd year of the Van earthquake and who have asked for mercy on our deceased people. May God never show our country such disasters, earthquakes, floods, of course. It's been two years since the Van earthquake. I've heard the need to re-explain something that's been said in particular. There was no damage to the earthquake here at the hotel on October 23rd, not a damaged hotel, and it wasn't part of the buildings that we had discovered the damage, and the scientific explanation that was made after Van. And the explanation that we made was very clear. And after that, there was no such thing as an investigation of other agencies -- nationally or not -- that there would be no investigations; the prosecution would demand an investigation against the MP, because he had immunity. However, the prosecutor's analysis has tested who will be investigated, the necessary investigation into public members has been conducted, and the result is evident.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0048par0210	He asked for permission, he wasn't given it.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0049par0211	No, it wasn't allowed.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0047par0212	Now, there's a statement here again about our 280 citizens, that they're staying in containers and that they're powered down right now. The most valuable MPs, whether they are tenants, owners, owners or not, live in a registered house, without a license, in their own house, and live as squatters, all of our people in the houses that were damaged by the earthquake were entitled to our rights, no exception. The ones sitting in the containers now are not our people whose homes were damaged in the earthquake, but our homeless people in the van, and we provide them with the necessary help. If you'll excuse me, I'll try to rephrase what's being done in Van. As a result of the earthquake, from the day we went to Van, building or building a building plan, building infrastructure, bringing water, and bringing water from Gurpınar Shamran to Ercish again to bringing water from 50 kilometers [50 km] to Ercish, the construction of 25,172 dwellings is being built at 104 construction sites in Van. Some of them have been delivered, and some of them are still under construction. This includes 12 high schools, 29 elementary schools, 80 stables, 80 home buildings, 34 mosques, 17 commercial centers, 3 boarding houses, 3 social facilities, 10 family health centers, 3 pharmacies, 17 kiosks, 2 health clinics, 34 outposts, 3 village treatment facilities, and another number of public buildings. In villages, 6,000 houses are now being built by citizens, by the method of helping the builder of his house, and these are also being inspected by my Ministry. And these are going on fast. After the Van earthquake, its opposition to Turkey, its power, with all its parts, with 80 provinces, and with the province of Van, its affinity and sensitivity to this earthquake have been appreciated and followed by the entire world. In this regard, I congratulate the people of Turkey and the people of Turkey once again. Van will be in Van on October 26th, 27th, next Saturday, Sunday -- along with the concerned ministers of the Republic of Turkey -- and I will be in Van. What needs to be done in Van is the next urban transformation activities, social utensils, and again the generational collection around Lake Van. We're going to do whatever it takes to get Van to the city after he's become a city. In the same way, the CED report on the project in Maltepe, we did environmental impact assessment reports while we were making plans, and we did not give a report from the governor's office, which we know is normal, resume, or permitable, but other than that, we were compiling the report that the CED wasn't necessary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think I'm out of time. Can you give me a minute?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0050par0221	It's off automatic, sir. Wait a minute, I'll give you time.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0047par0222	Thank you very much. Here, again, we gave you the zoning plans after we did the necessary inspections. After the feast of sacrifice, the government also promised that we would take all living animals. I'd like to express that, too. The CED report, which was to be done by Nurol in Çanakkale, was asked to be returned, and it was abandoned. Again, in Turkey, now, after that, we decided as a government, that we would not allow the construction of an imported coal-based power plant, but in Mersin Akkuyu, the necessary work has been done; it is a necessity for Turkey, and we have done it in the development plans. We're running that project there, holding meetings with the governor and the public. I'd also like to say that we, as a state, will conduct these services in the interest of our people by making a new arrangement after the privatisation of electricity shortages, taking away the privatisation of the distribution of the distribution, even if it is privatisation. Again, thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0051par0228	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0052par0229	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary has informed the General Assembly of the missing information, so let me make a statement. I'm here on my speech, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0051par0230	Just a minute, Mr. Original. If you sit down, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0053par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. That's right, there was no damage to the Bayram Hotel in the first earthquake, so even the TOKI engineers were staying there, and the relief workers were staying there. Look, in this case, the owner of the Bayram Hotel, Tevfik Bajram, should not be condemned, not judged, according to your logic. Secondly, there, the D.A.'s office issued a warrant for the investigation into the investigation of the AFAD authorities and the governor's case, but the relevant investigators, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, did not authorize an investigation. That's where the problem is. We've asked that a parliamentary research commission be set up for a thorough discussion of this matter. Let's bring him in, tell him what you've done, and let the public hear about it. There are still people left in the container with no electricity, no water, still victims. You've done so much, that's right, with the help of the Turkish nation, with the contribution of international organizations. Of course you will, you're a government, so there's no point in giving it back. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0054par0239	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Baluken, you've never asked for a word before. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0055par0243	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we would like to share this pain with our people again on the occasion of the 2nd anniversary of the Van earthquake, which has caused us all pain. First of all, we wish all of our people, Van, who died in this severe earthquake, God's mercy on our fallen citizens, and urgent healings on our wounded, who are still working hard to heal their wounds. Unfortunately, after the Van earthquake, the paintings were extremely bad. With the practice of the government not fulfilling the needs of the social state, the people of Van suffered severe casualties. First of all, in a natural disaster that affected the entire city, Van was not declared a disaster zone in an earthquake, and as a result of the insensitive approaches of our people, the government and the state in Van Naha, they had to spend one winter in the snow under heavy winter conditions. Fires in tents, severe pneumonia epidemics, epidemics of infectious diseases have caused many of our citizens to die. A real estate operation carried out in front of Van's people more than a study on the healing of Van's wounds has been carried out in front of the Van people, and we have stated that none of these processes have been acceptable since the beginning. We've called for sensitivity to the government, Parliament. Although we have repeatedly expressed the problems of the people of Van on this bench, unfortunately, we have witnessed that serious work has not been done. First of all, Parliament had to set up a research commission on a city that had become completely ruined by such a severe natural disaster, a resolution of all problems, and a will at the point of solving these identified problems. The same weight continues today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have another minute?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0056par0251	Thank you. Congressmans, I want you to know that I'm giving the group's deputy presidents two minutes, and I'm giving our other MPs one minute, because he's a member of the group, so he's got more of a commitment. So, Mr. Vural, here you go. The last time I promise you, you must have an additional explanation.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0057par0255	Sir, I'd like to remind you of two things about Mr. Secretary's statements. Mr. Secretary, we didn't tell the citizens to enter the buildings after the Van earthquake at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we didn't tell them not to. You had a statement. There was a statement from the governor of Van earlier saying, "You can go into hotels, there's nothing." Unfortunately, the people who stayed in the hotels and the people who were in them died in the next earthquake, you know. Now, when it comes to the matter of that case, unfortunately, there's no way to identify the real responsible for not being allowed to investigate public officials. In that respect, the only way to get past this is through a parliamentary investigation to determine the responsibilities of public officials. In this regard, if you take a step towards not protecting those who are responsible -- along with the AKP Group -- to conduct a parliamentary investigation, Turkey's Grand National Assembly will consider whether public officials are responsible. I just wanted to make it clear, Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0058par0259	Thank you, Mr. Vural. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation; I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary study I'm going to teach in the third place is more than 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read. In addition, the full text of the motion will be included in the Journal of Review. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the world and depending on it, business accidents are one of the most important problems of working life in our country. On average, 1 million work accidents occur every day in the world, and 2.3 million workers lose their lives each year due to business accidents or occupational illness. When we look at our country, we can see that the picture of occupational health and safety is creepy. According to the figures of the ILO (ILO), an average of 176 work accidents occur every day in Turkey, four of our employees lose their lives every day, and six employees receive permanent reports of incapacity. While the figures demonstrate the seriousness of the incident, Turkey has only approved six of the 20 international contracts adopted by ILO. One of these contracts is a contract on occupational health and safety approved in 2005. However, Since this contract is still not reflected in internal law, the lives of workers are abandoned to their fates. For this reason, Tekirdağ died almost every day due to a working accident in the factories, dam doors opened in Adana, there was not enough ventilation at the Zonguldak mine, and there was no precaution to build ships at Tuzla shipyards. Tekirdağ is also a rapidly industrialized province, where business accidents are intense because there are too many heavy industries and factories. Business accidents cannot be viewed as a simple health issue or a technical issue of production. A work accident is a problem with a person's social side. Workers are not the cause of business accidents, they are the vulnerable side. Since the value of the worker is measured by the price of his labor, the right of the worker to live as a human is not considered in the process of producing. Many workers have lost their lives due to occupational accidents or occupational illness. The environmental factor in the emergence of occupational illness is the primary and essential cause of the disease. Hence, many of our citizens, especially major industrial businesses, have been exposed to chemically-based heavy metals, gases, working in physical hot-cool environments, working in low-pressure environments, and exposed to radiation. The most important result of business accidents and occupational illness is human loss, such as death, severe injury, incapacity, occupational illness. The deaths form the most irreparable dimension of business accidents. The long working hours of our hard-working workers in the heavy industry invite the number of government inspectors and the lack of supervision, almost fatalities. Most work accidents and occupational diseases, however, can be avoided. As long as the production process is not centered on human, labor, and the labour health issue is not considered part of the general health of society, permanent solutions are not produced. It is important that the Ministry, employers and employees share the same viewpoint, co-operation, so that business accidents and occupational diseases can be prevented. Taking appropriate measures, developing the right policies, and proper implementation of these policies will play a major role in reducing the number of employees who have suffered from occupational illness and suffered from job accidents. In our country, privatisation, subcontractorization, business profits, exports and so on, are adopted as fundamental achievement measures, and in no way are valued by the manufacturer's work in the background of these elements. That understanding is the key to the problem. Therefore, the problems our workers, who are in the shadow of rapid industrialization and are the backbone of industry, should not be ignored at their workplaces. With respect to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Parliamentary Institution, in order to determine the basic causes of business accidents and occupational illness, to find permanent solutions by resolving legal and technical shortcomings. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 5) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 9) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to expose the impact of our country's incentive policies on economic and social structure and to establish more effective incentive policies, we demand and demand the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter. Incentive practices are one of the key economic policy instruments in a country for the development of the economy and boosting employment. The incentives began and have been implemented up to date in the history of the republic, to encourage investment, to boost the country's international competitiveness, to address inter-regional index differences. The campaign, which began in 1863 with the establishment of the Islahat Industrial Commission in Osmanlı, continued with decisions made at the 1923 İzmir Economic Congress, with the formation of the republic. Although incentives for the private sector gained weight during the early years of the Republic, the failure of these policies has made the OCEs the main force of economic development. In addition to the 1950s, incentives have been concentrated in the Marmara Region, and the country's eastern part of the country has not received sufficient investments due to the failure of public investments to spread across the country. Until the 1980s, the planned development period, along with the 1960s, brought a number of measures and regulations to promote industry, and again efforts to develop measures for the private sector to pioneer economic development. In particular, no results have been achieved from the measures developed to address regional development differences, and during each plan, either the previous plan has been abandoned or the previous plans have been abandoned. When we look at the distribution of sectors that received incentive documents from 1980 to 2008, the agricultural sector was able to benefit by 1.45 per cent. At the same time, the energy, mining and agriculture sector received only 7.6 per cent of the total employment created by incentives, and the services and manufacturing sector received 92 per cent of the employment created. In our country, industry has largely been held at the assembly level. The production sector is one of the most intensive areas today in which the labour gas has taken place as a result of the lack of sufficient RD work and the shape of economic policies by the interests of regional and international communities involved in the country. The more developed service sector in recent years is also the head of areas where cheap labor is heavily used. The stimulus packets for resolving regional development differences have not been able to resolve the problem, but have deepened regional differences. In the regional distribution of investment incentive documents, which were issued from 1980 to 2008 again, only 4.53 per cent of the Eastern Anatolian region's total incentive documents remain at 7.42 per cent. These areas share the same fate at the point of the financial size of incentives. The envisioned employment area also remains at 3.65 per cent and 6.75 per cent of the eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, respectively. Official data have shown that incentive policies so far have deepened the gap between regional indexes. It is also understood from the promotional speech of the Prime Minister's new incentive law, which was announced on April 5, 2012, when the Promotion Act on 4 June 2009 failed to produce a overall and regionally qualified result. As the latest stimulus package announced by the prime minister can be seen in the long run, the impact of energy on the current deficit has not been analysed in terms of the outcome of our country's austerity rates being far below the level of investment and towards external savings. In addition, privatisation of educational services, which are a public service and which citizens should receive for free, is one of the problematic areas of this incentive law. It is highly ideological for Turkish people to be driven to increase capital's commitment to invest, at the risk of ignoring the rights of labor, preventing the labour of an importing policy and the arrival of a neoliberal ideology where it meets. It is clear that incentives to support capital alone will promote poverty, such as minimum wage, rather than increase employment, and will further increase the revenue gap in society. It is important to review the incentive policies that have been implemented in our country so far and to open Parliamental research to make new policy assessments that will please every part of society. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and Investigation of Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and the Constitutional Charter 104 and 105, in order to investigate the impact of civil dictatorship and custody on Turkey's democracy, which is mandatory for the investigation of the coup coup on September 12th. With all due respect. [[İzmir]] 2) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] (x) (10/743) is included in the full text report of the main Parliamentary Research Investigator. 4) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] 10) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 11) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sinop]] [[Niğde]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Malatya]] 21) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] Investigating the September 12th military coup is essential for Turkey to investigate the impact of civilian dictatorship and the impact of custody on Turkey's democracy and the impact of Turkey's democracy. Civilian custody has more than one view in Turkey. Civil custody has first systematically completed its formation on the judiciary. The fact that the judiciary has become a component of civilian custody has begun with the legalisation of regulations that the public recognizes as the first judicial reform. Critics about the judiciary are not the only criticisms made by the Republican People's Party. As a matter of fact, it was adopted by the European Parliament on 20/3/2012 and European Council's Human Rights Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg shares the views of the Republican People's Party. The effect of civilian custody on freedom of the press has been self-inflicted. When it was possible for journalists to continue their work in terms of auto-sensorship while it was possible to continue their work, the results of journalists who have resisted auto-sensorship and who have continued to criticize political power or continue to write on unwanted issues by political power have led them to be fired or forced to quit their jobs, with various criminal charges, including members of the terrorist organization, to be sued and deprived of their freedoms. In terms of broadcasters, the process has been carried out with high figures of punishment, with the use of the current penal code and the use of the Anti-Terror Law as a means of suppression, allowing auto-sensorship to be established in terms of legal persons, and if it does not, by means of special authority courts or financial audits, to be punished with high numbers. The effect of civilian custody on our daily lives is the creation of a society of fear. In reference to the definition of fear society, concrete indicators are being experienced, such as that everyone is playing the frequency while making phone calls, listening to the environment of the central or branches of the institution and its legal organisational structures, being tagged by 1,048 personnel in the book published by the Ministry of Culture, or by TÜBITAK. In Turkey's development of eight institutions, such as the eight institutions, the autonomy of institutions with significant roles has been lifted, and the institutions have been stripped of their autonomy, with regulations such as the giving of control to the ministries, the making of ÜBA and TÜBITAK assignments directly by themselves. Civil custody has surrounded all administrative and judicial structures in Turkey. The lack of investigation of corruption, the lack of adequate and necessary care, has made itself public in the corruption of the Kayseri municipality and the Lighthouse case. The AKP's government, which wanted the military coup to be investigated, was the most benefited from the laws passed between 1980 and 1983, the systems and structures created by these laws. To investigate or investigate the military coup is to investigate and investigate the impact military intervention has on Turkey's democracy and the impact it has on people's lives. The removal of the negative effects of military intervention means that all of the legislation that took place at the time was redesigned to the basis of liberal, human rights and honor. If the AKP wants to erase the traces of military intervention and is sincere in its request, it should support proposals made by the Republican People's Party. Given the government's attitude towards foreign contacts and some international issues in recent years, close ties with countries ruled by dictatorship or with political authorities with ties to terrorism are seen to be avoided. There is no doubt that it should not be the duty of a state that defines itself as a democracy to have power responsible for the deaths of thousands of people. Against all blows and in this context, we must resist the current civilian dictatorship and custody. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's meeting Wednesday (23/10/2013), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 7 May 2013, Müsh MP Demir Çelik and his friends (3281 rows no. The parliamentary inquiry motion, which was submitted to the Turkish Parliament for consideration of the conditions of the prisoners in prison who are in severe illness, has been suggested to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information and read in the joint releases Wednesday (23/10/2013) and held in the same dated combination of talks. In favour of the proposal, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken... Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0059par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the group proposal we've made. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, we've repeatedly discussed rights violations, abuses, tortures and deaths on these platforms, we've argued with you on every platform we've been on, over and over again, with the public's reaction to the resolution of the House, we've called for sensitivity along with the democratic actions of the public, but unfortunately, so far, we're dealing with a parliamentary practice that is insensitive to the subject of prisons, or rather a practice of power. Every time we mentioned the problem, we faced a situation such as, let alone see a sensitivity from the ruling party, the practice of the ruling party filling prisons, and the ongoing construction of new prisons all over the country. Even this alone is very striking in the fact that the prisons are filled and that the construction of new prisons is not enough, that the AKP has shown how insensitive it is to this subject, how it continues its blind, deaf, dumb position in the human drama of these prisons every day. In particular, the condition of the sick prisoners and the prisoners in prisons, unfortunately, has already reached the extent of a very heavy, historical tragedy that bleeds the conscience of society every day. There are heavy patients waiting to die in prison for a long time. There are reports from NGOs, human rights agencies. Currently, there are 526 severe chronic patients in prisons, with 156 of which are heavy. I'm afraid all our attempts to evacuate these patients have failed. There are coffins coming out of prisons almost every month, and with every coffin there is a situation that kills our humanity. Today, the reason we brought this motion here is because it is a futile effort to save our dying humanity again. We're calling for sensitivity from here, again, all of you. We have friends who have a conscience, we have friends who are doctors, who consider human health more valuable than anything else. Come, quickly, this Parliament will set up a commission on these problems, and in no time, this commission will immediately present a study of the condition of the sick prisoners in all prisons, and we say that the serious crimes of humanity regarding the treatment process and the evacuation processes of these sick prisoners must be eliminated immediately. Dear lawmakers, we have repeatedly told you that the biggest obstacle to the evacuation of these sick prisoners is the Forensic Medical Association. The Coroner's Office has already turned into an institution that invites death rather than health, in order to carry the entire soul of September 12th Fascism. While scientific, objective, objective, health-related forensics must make political assessments, making political decisions, drawing patients who are on the thin edge of life and death to the side of life, unfortunately, they continue to sign decisions that push them to the brink of death. We've submitted research proposals here over and over again to change the institutional structure of forensics, we've had conversations, you've been insensitive to that subject. But we thought, at least let's do something like this together: the decision-making process of these sick prisoners should not be left at the mercy of an institution that carries the spirit of September 12th. We've asked university hospitals, education and research hospitals in this country, full-fledged state hospitals to conduct objective procedures concerning the health of these sick prisoners, to make objective decisions. You haven't considered any of the calls we've made. So it turns out that you have found that you don't trust university hospitals, education and research hospitals, full-fledged state hospitals, which are referred to in this country. For many patients, for example, the university hospital can't stay in prison. For example, the state hospital can't survive in prison alone. When they go to Forensic Medicine, they are sent back to prisons with a political decision. That's the kind of painting we're looking at. Look, when we entered medical school, we were first taught the principle of the Hippocrates' "Primum non nocere: First of all, do no harm." The Coroner's Office is a place where people study medicine, but in every decision he makes, he harms the patients, he signs the right to their lives under decisions. Dozens of prisoners died within just a year. We've brought him here many times. We discussed the state of Şahabedtin Yücel. Hadji Nasır, İrfan Eskibağ, Gürgün Kurt, Mehmet Aras, Latif Bodur, Mahmut Karataş, Mahmut Karataş, Mahmut Çakakan, Nurettin Soysal, Gülay Cetin... we have passed on to you from this stage, so to speak, live, and from these platforms, we have reported their deaths to General Board as we continue to speak. Even from a painting like this, you're supposed to feel uncomfortable and put a study on it in front of you. And for the past nine months, we've been talking about a process of solutions that you almost ended up with your insensitive approach. We said that the most important confidence-building step in this solution process was the decisions regarding these sick prisoners. A Commission for Solutions was created in this Parliament. The Commission of Solutions went to prisons and examined the situation of these sick prisoners. After that, they negotiated with the Minister of Justice, negotiated with the ruling party, but failed. The smart people have interviewed the families of the sick prisoners in prisons or prisons, and they've given you reports, they've expressed their opinion, but so far, you've never been interested in any solutions shown by the Commission of Solutions or the delegation of rational people. Here we are facing a massive human tragedy that turns into a death sentence every day because you refused to comply. Every moment, even when we're having this conversation, we're dealing with the tragedy of the people, the prisoners, who might die. Look, ten days ago, I went to Bingol, my constituency. Hasan Kaya, 42, died in Bingol Prison because he was not given enough treatment -- severe diabetes -- because his medication was not given on time. There's never been a single investigation of the responsible. Unfortunately, with the possibility of a 42-year-old living, your insensitive approach has left us with a heavy pain to lose our friend, just as it did with other sick prisoners. We are renegotiating the call that the situation regarding these sick prisoners should not be considered politically, that they should be evaluated from a human and conscientious standpoint. Since our talking time is limited, we don't have time here to explain what disease each of our friends is suffering from, what severe health problems they're having right now, but come on, listen to your conscience this time, sign a decision to save your humanity this time, and I'll set up a research commission here. I'd like to quickly put together a study of the condition of the sick prisoners in all prisons, and, with their proposals for solutions, we'd like to sign under a study that will ease the conscience of the entire community. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0060par0428	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against you, Sivas MP Hilmi Bilgin. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0061par0432	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the group's proposal to open the parliamentary inquiry under the relevant articles of the Constitution, and the Civil Code, in order to remove obstacles to the conditions and release of prisoners given by the Peace and Democracy Party Parliamentary Group, in view of the severe cases of illness in prisons. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, the honorable MPs, the 17th article of our Constitution, all have the right to live, maintain and develop their material and spiritual existence. The right to live is the most fundamental and superior of human rights. This right is guaranteed by our Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In that sense, all prisoners and prisoners in prisons have these rights, as they naturally are human beings, as do other free people. It is the duty of the state and governments to protect the health of this sector and to get treatment. In parallel with this situation, we are a party that has taken people into the center of services, both in our party program and in our government programs. We, the party, are doing human-centered politics. In every service we have taken from the day we've been established, in every step we've taken, we've acted with understanding of the state, we've put people and our nation in the focus of service and execution, and because we've served with this movement, we've been aiming for our people to get quality health care, whether they're imprisoned or free, to live with the quality and power of all our people. Dear lawmakers, in the time of our governments, the improvement of the life conditions of prisoners and prisoners who remain in prisons and prisons, as in all areas, has taken significant and serious steps at the point of resolving health problems, and the work in this area continues without slowing down. In this case, I'd like to brief you on practices involving inmates and prisoners who have health problems in prisons. Preliminary examinations and treatment services for the protection of the body and mental health of convicted and prisoners are provided at the institution for the diagnosis of disease, further examinations, treatments and rehabilitation are referred to state hospitals, further health care needs, and all kinds of treatments are made free of charge by the state. Again, prison hospitals, state hospitals, and university hospitals are also organised in accordance with medical requirements and legislation, which cannot be conducted in prisons, treatments, and health care monitoring which must be conducted in hospitals and in accordance with human and patient rights. It is also carried out in accordance with a medical board report conducted by relevant hospitals on prisoners and inmates in the penal institution who are in need of physical rehabilitation. Those who are deemed necessary by the attending to be treated in hospital for physically disabled prisoners and convicts are taken to the hospital's prison ward where treatment and surveillance are continued. In case the treatment physician's report is reportedly mandatory, the person involved will be accompanied. A family practice has not yet been adopted, and health care services are conducted by physicians assigned by the municipal health departments or by institutional physicians who have not switched to the Ministry of Health. Again, most of the penal execution institutions have a dental unit and are fully provided with dental medicine. Mr. President, it has been stated that the execution of prisoners, dated January 24, 2013, and the execution of Penal Code No. 6411, and Penal Code 5275, will be dropped until the execution of prisoners, who are deemed to be in no danger in the conditions of the penal institution, due to a severe illness or injury. Following the proposed arrangement, the Ministry of Justice ordered that prisoners and prisoners who could not maintain their lives alone in the execution institution by writing to all state prosecutors of the Republic and the heads of the criminal execution institution should be carried out immediately and that the reports to which they would be received should be sent to Forensic Medicine immediately. In addition, a team of judges has been formed under the General Directorate of Punishment and Investigation and daily needs to address issues that are a setback by monitoring the transfer and procedures of these patients. On the other hand, in the procedures of the Forensic Medical Association, and in the need for further series of examinations and examinations, prisoners and prisoners who were received at the scene were transferred to Metris Type R Correctional Institution to be carried out quickly. In this regard, the transfer of 42 prisoners and prisoners has been carried out. In an effort to speed up procedures in health care institutions, to speed up the process of forensic medicine...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0062par0446	Speak not of the text, but of his conscience, but of his conscience, and of his conscience.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0061par0447	...a meeting between the Officials of the Public Hospitals Association and Justice Ministry officials has been organised to speed up the process and provide the necessary information. As a result of all this, 419 prisoners and prisoners have been reported by the Forensic Medical Association, which has been decided that they do not need 260 people or that they can continue their execution in a hospital environment. The 159 prisoners and prisoners, who have been deemed in need of care by the Forensic Medical Association, have been ordered by the state prosecutors of the Republic to postpone the execution. The processing of 85 cases is still ongoing at the Forensic Medical Association, while 79 prisoners are still studying at local state hospitals. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a permanent commission in the Human Rights Review Commission within our House. This commission includes all party representatives with the group in parliament. In this period, the commission has been established, and he will continue his work. Over the past year, 22 prisons have been examined in every area, both in the healthcare area and in the area where prisoners and prisoners have faced problems, where reports obtained from here continue to be reported to relevant institutions, where they are reported to the relevant institutions, where they are able to address the problems that have been detected. As a result of the work done by this commission, an active and result-taking focus has been conducted. Again, this work will continue during this period. Dear lawmakers, for 11 years, in the time of our governments serving our beloved nation and our country in all areas, our nation's quality of life has been increased in all areas, and as a nation, it has become more confident in the future. In this period, all arrangements have been made to preserve human honor and dignity, whether they are free or convicted, and measures have been taken. The work in this area will continue without slowing down. We will continue to work on the responsibility our historical mission has given us to live in a sisterly, peaceful country, free of all pressure, free of custody, free of custody. I declare that we are open to any positive contribution and criticism the opposition parties will give in this regard, and I hereby declare that we are against the group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0063par0452	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. On the other hand, Erzincan MP Muharrem Ilk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0064par0456	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of the Council's motion to investigate the conditions of the prisoners who are heavily ill in the prisons of BDP, in order to determine their condition and remove obstacles to their release. I salute you all. Of course, valuable lawmakers, in the speech of the speaker who just spoke, the AKP MP, where one goes to prison, where one stays, where one is praised, the prisons are praised. Of course, in all the cities, we commend the number of prisons, the number of prisons, and a lot of courthouses. And that's actually where we're going. Of course, prisoners in prisons have the biggest problems especially when they're sick or when they're in prison. Laws set out here are seeking conditions to assess that he cannot survive alone due to severe illness or injury, and that he will not pose a danger to public safety. Of course, the applications that have been made so far can't take care of the majority of inmates who go to the hospital or to the medical examiner or to the university hospital or to the public hospital or to the majority of them who go to the hospital. Although the report has been reported, unfortunately, they are not left, they are not released, they are officially expected to die inside. Of course, we've been monitoring the public, especially the press, how the Coroner's Office most of the time reported it. In most of the reports, the cause of the disease is not fully defined, and we accept patients -- even if they are prisoners -- are said to have been faking there -- and thus delaying the reports given, days, months, unfortunately, is causing the death of most of these people. Of course, especially about prisoners who have been sentenced to life in prison, and if they're known to be ill, they need to be released immediately, even if they've been sentenced to life. But unfortunately, especially, you know, in previous hunger strikes, many prisoners who have suffered from what we call vitamin deficiency have not been released due to what we call the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. Earlier, an answer to a question motion asked at the time of Mr. President Ahmet Necdet Sezer shows that 12 prisoners were released in 2000, 15 in 2001, 93 in 2002, 123 in 2003, 9 in 2004, 5 in 2005 and 2 in 2006. However, after being President Abdullah Gul, 26 people were released, and only one of those we call political prisoners were released. Of course, the point of view of the people here is very important. It seems you don't release most of the people here because you see them all as dangerous and against you. Of course, there's some news in the press, we don't want to believe it, or there's some news from some lawyers that we don't want to believe, but it's probably true. In Metris Prison, where dozens of sick prisoners have to live under difficult circumstances, the killer in the Sivas massacre and many other cases is said to be privileged and comfortable. Some lawyers have also been told that there are many opportunities in wards in the R-type prison, where St. Yıldırım is reportedly staying, and that there are prisoners there who have been kept in the infirmary. Of course, that's been heard in public. I hope that's not true, and we accept. Of course, the most important thing is for a prisoner or a prisoner to get sick there after going to prison. Especially when young children -- sometimes when we go on a trip with the prison commission -- are there to go to the hospital, especially after they've been sick -- it's more difficult than getting through a ditch on a camel. Although people have resorted to many ways, they have not received love, they have not received permission from the prosecutor, they will hear from the prosecutor, and the prosecutor will inform them. Here, if it's a simple flu, it's already self-inflicted, but if it's an important disease, wait for it to come to a decision when it comes to it. It's called taking it away. And there's a lot of problems with taking the pills after they're gone. When the drugs come in, the prescription goes in, the prescription comes in. We've seen patients with epilepsy, these patients need to take daily medications, but unfortunately they often have seizures due to the delay of their medication. And these are the ones whose medications have been delayed again, so let's not look for ulterior motives in this, but it looks like they need to be searched. In particular, of course, it is said that the conditions of staying in prisons are important here, how bad they are, how beautiful they are, how bad their windows are painted so that the sun doesn't get in, and that the glass is painted so that the sun doesn't get in, especially in the latest news in Silivri, so that the sun doesn't see each other. We went to a children's prison in Edirne. Those young children who were in juvenile detention stay in wards of 18, 19, 20, and when we went, we found that most of them suffered from upper respiratory infections, even though it was summer. The children there are in great distress, and unfortunately, they continue to face the same challenges. When our Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc was asked a question about the Fatih Hilmioğlu, the people who were in the same situation, the last thing I think is that it's too much for Fatih Hilmioğlu, and there's bound to be others. And they need to be quickly completed, and if their disease is really going to improve in prisons -- and the reports are available -- if their treatments are not possible in prison conditions, they need to be evacuated quickly. I'm guessing forensics doesn't approve at this point, so let's warn them from here. I mean, you, of course, are free in your medical opinion, we have no right to get involved, but if these people's situations are similar, if the conditions outside are much better at the point of treatment, evacuate them. Let's just say that these people's families are comfortable with themselves and the community. We sincerely desire that they be released because the health conditions do not allow it. He says, "The health conditions do not allow it." And Mr. Bulent Arinc says that he feels guilty about it. But unfortunately, it's always in the words that someone relaxes someone's conscience, but they're allowed to go out the other side and keep the prisoners the same way. Of course, we see that there are four authorities for the release of sick prisoners. One of them is that hospitals need to report, which reports are being reported, but unfortunately the results of these reports can't be taken, the authorities don't often decide. Another authority, Mr. President, is that our President is being very stingy about it. The Constitutional Court isn't interested in that. The last time he goes to the ECHR, it's a fact that we've already been punished in most cases. As a result, we stopped at Erzurum, where my friend Huseyin Aygun was arrested for leaking information about the murder of 52 of our own people. Of course, we couldn't see each other because we didn't get permission, but the information that we got there, the private says, "Keep me in a military prison, don't send me to a civilian prison." I mean, military prisons are being looked after, more comfortable, and people are being asked to live there. Of course, Private Utku has post-traumatic syndrome. Our fellow physicians know the properties of this. The fact that this should not be under pressure, especially when the treatment should be done very well, unfortunately we see that even in the hospital, he is kept in isolation there under pressure, where he is asked to continue his illness and remain in prison for years. Which is why this private told our friend that he should actually be given a medal, our friends, and I agree. Because at least they've uncovered some of the facts in this country, someone has figured out what's what, and they've shown what the massacre in Reyhan is costing them. But we go on the same way because we know what's best for us. So what we're asking here is that this group proposal has to be absolutely supported, because even though it's a prisoner, if we're saying that we're a social state, we're a legal state, we have to look at these prisoners here, we have to look at the prisoners. These people don't sleep there for fun. There's cancers, there's paralysis, there's people who can't take care of themselves because of the brain tumor, there's people who have severed arms, there's prostate cancers, all of them we've seen. They need to be released as soon as possible. Especially because BDP, MHP, or CHP brought it in, it doesn't happen. Because in the end, we're watching commercials when you come out here and talk, and you're telling me that it's great stuff, but I suggest you go to prisons, see these prisoners there, and then you make that decision after you see how they're doing. We also know how the latest prison commission report on the Human Rights Commission was distorted, how it was spelled wrong, because our friends at the prison commission said it wasn't the truth. I ask you to support this proposal, and I offer my greetings.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0065par0474	Thank you, Mr. Light. Against him, Mr. Hakan Sergeant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0066par0478	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised a group proposal by the esteemed lawmakers, which the BDP has made regarding the conditions of the sick prisoners and those in charge. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Congressmans, as you know, the modern criminal execution law system is not only a favourable condition for convicts in the execution of sentences in prisons, in line with the winning of human thought, but also to ensure that they are free in prisons, to be reintegrated, rehabilitated, rehabilitated, in both physical and spiritual conditions. For him, I feel that the executions of prisoners and sick prisoners in prisons must first be carried out in healthy conditions. Which is why I think it would be an opportunity for convicts and prisoners, who are in these prisons, who are out of date, who are in difficult circumstances, who are doing their executions, to be punished in more modern forms, in healthier environments, to be able to keep them healthy at the same time. For this reason, our government and our government have taken steps from their early days to develop physical conditions in prisons, healthcare and the creation of new criminal execution institutions. Therefore, it is not the right approach to criticize the construction of new prisons while underlining the issue that prisoners and prisoners should be healthy. Dear friends, my dear friend, a very dear congressman, has just explained that in the past year of life, we have also offered a different alternative by adding a new one to the conditions for the postponement of the sentence by going to a change in Article 16 of Law 5275. This was that we allowed the execution of punishments to be postponed in the event of a severe illness or injury that I could not survive alone in the conditions of the penal institution. However, this was at an advanced stage, according to the former arrangement, the previous arrangement. Since the establishment of EC PARTI rulings, it has continued to act with democratic reflexes and reflexes that take you to the center. So there's no doubt or doubt that we've brought the criminal execution system into a healthier, more appropriate environment than before. When we examine the reason for the BDP group proposal, we see other factors being compiled. One of them, for example, is explained and explained about the problems caused by Kurdish speech. Dear friends, in 2009, we opened the way for a phone conversation with a relative of the prisoner or the prisoner, who said he could express himself better in another language by making a change in the regulation. In the same way, following this, we brought the arrangement that allowed them to speak in another language on the same plane, face - to - face. I don't think there's any need to repeat what our congressman just explained here. On this occasion, I would like to extend my respect and love to all of you before we invade your peace of mind by saying that we are against the group proposal.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0067par0487	Mr. President, the secretary is talking about the invasion. What did they invade?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0068par0490	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit01spe0069par0491	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll do it first. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ağababa, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Acar, Mr. Small, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Ööner, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Öz, Mr. Ayadı, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Silver, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sapan. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0069par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The meeting was not enough in the polls before the 19th amendment of the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal, according to the 19th Amendment. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. And now the National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Wednesday (23/10/2013), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. ==History==On November 13, 2012, the year 2012/6735 and the year of the TBM head of the Khakat MP Reşat Right were released in studies where their friends' age of drug use was widespread until they reached 11 years of age, or elementary school children. However, if there is a drug use and drug abuse situation in our schools, it has been suggested that our motion to conduct parliamentary research on Wednesday 23/10/2013 (today) will be read and held in the General Assembly for the purpose of determining the measures needed to be taken. That's right. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0070par0026	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. In our country and our schools, I have made a solemn commitment to the research proposal we made with our friends to determine the state of drug abuse and substance abuse and to determine the measures that need to be taken. It is possible to describe drug and drug addiction, the greatest enemy of mental and physical health, as well as a health issue with biological, spiritual, psychological, and social dimensions that can affect everyone, especially among young people, as a decaying problem of society and our future. Drug use in our country is increasing day by day, as in many countries in the world, and the age of drug use has also gone down to 11 years, so we see that the age of education has dropped down to elementary school children. This is a very grave and heavy painting. The time has passed for this kind of research to be done in our schools and the necessary measures to be taken. That's what our research proposal is for. It is clear that the countries will come to us as their most important problem if the use of substances is not prevented today. The destruction of the Justice and Development Party's power in social order has unfortunately left families facing many problems. In our country, farmers, civil servants, pensioners, workers, businessmen, tradesmen face great tribulations and problems. Debts are not paid, depending on these, and executions are met day after day. It's demoralizing society, leading people to despair. As a result, the use of substances in humans is increasing day by day. Young people, adults, women, old people, drug addicts, every day, unfortunately. The AKP's power must see these young people, they must see these people. In many of our counties, mainly major cities, the number of drug and other drug addicts is increasing day by day, and families are disbanded. Why is it that national education, family and social policy, health ministry officials do not take care of young people and the public? The ministries, in particular, move past this important issue with dressing measures. So far, however, we don't see that very serious work covering the overall prevalence of substance use in the general population has been done by the state. In 2003, a survey was conducted in six counties, covering the UN-sponsored households of Turkey, students and the population in prison. According to this study, at least 0.5 percent of opium and derivatives between 15 and 64 years of age have been tested at least once; at least 0.6% of solvents and glues have been tested at least once. In 2010, the pilot's research in the Ankara province of TuBIM (TUBIM) has at least 1.6 per cent of cannabis testing. In the last year, the rate of use -- 0.8 per cent -- has been seen to be increasing to 1 percent. Again, in research conducted by the TUIK in 2010, the rate of testing any drug at least once is rising to the level of 1%. The rate of substance use in men is at least 1.26 per cent, while the rate of use in women is 0.61 per cent. Also, studies among students show that any illegal, addictive substance has at least a 1.5 per cent average of testing. This rate has been seen as 2.3% in men and 0.7% in girls. 1.1% of the students have also been identified as having someone in their family who uses other substances other than tobacco or alcohol. The average use of matter for the first time is around 14. Given the results of this investigation, it must once again be considered how important the matter is. In Article 58 of our Constitution, the state takes the necessary measures to protect young people from drugs. Therefore, the state must act quickly in its prevention activities. To never start taking care of matter should be the basis of protection. The work and cost spent on treatment for substance abuse and reintegration is far greater than the amount of work and cost spent on prevention. Hence, environmental prevention study groups must be formed. School, family, community-oriented work must be done. Children and young people are the primary target of drugs. Hence, multiple assessments should be made for endangered groups. A study of seven different high schools in Ankara has also found that 13.2 per cent of high school students smoke, 23.5 per cent alcohol, 2.3 per cent drugs were used at least once in life. Despite this great threat, our schools have not had research on drug use in nine years, unfortunately. The ESPAD Project, which has been implemented in Europe and is requested to be implemented in our country, has not been conducted since 2003, due to the failure of the Ministry of National Education, which means that statistics among our schools date back to 2003. That's not true. In many cities in our country today, especially in some neighborhoods, young people have virtually unmovable, unmovable situations due to the use of honey, thinner, drugs, even killings in some places, including attacks on innocent people. Our children, our young ones, continue to be victims of their vices. The most important reasons for this are families' unemployment, poverty, children's carelessness, poverty. In the AKP's rule, the fight against unemployment and poverty was not enough, no matter what it was called. Retired, civil servants, tradesmen and farmers, businessmen, disabled people, struggle to survive under very difficult circumstances. The difficulty of living at home is affecting family ties, and children remain indifferent, unclaimed. In addition, the various lack of dialogue between family members also leads children out into the outside world, leaving them sadly alone with bad habits. After all, our children face terrible situations that are unacceptable. Therefore, every member of the community, especially politicians, should feel responsible. For him, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Interior. It's not a matter of simple measures that can be solved, I'm afraid. A variety of projects on young people must be done and their busyness must be increased, directed. Family ties must be strengthened, such projects must be brought up and implemented through the Ministry of Family Affairs. If substance abuse and drug use are increasing day by day in the outside world, especially in the West, in developed countries, the analysis must also be done by our country's authorities in a multi-directional way. Anywhere from supply to drug use, the state must be involved. In particular, most of PKK's and other terrorist organisations' revenues are from drug trafficking, which should not be forgotten. It should not be forgotten that over $10 billion has been returned to this market, and that these organisations have it as income. Our country is also troubled by drug problems. In 2011, 67,099 drug incidents occurred in our country, and 105,665 people were arrested and transferred to the courthouse. 87% of these cases include drug use and possession, 13 per cent of trafficking and trafficking. Unfortunately, the proportion of drug offenders in prisons is increasing every day. Today, in our country, the TUBIM -- the Turkish Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction -- is doing multi-directional work. In recent days, TUBIM has organised an international conference on fighting national drug use. So I'd like to offer my sincere congratulations to the TUBIM authorities on that matter. In fact, they're trying to carry things out on their own in this direction. But it's not their problem, it's the government's problem. The problem is a health problem, it's everyone's problem. June 26th was considered World Drug Use and Trafficking Day. At least these days, these weeks should be evaluated differently all over Turkey, where our schools are being reached, especially, and our people should be protected. NGOs must be supported at the point of their activities, and the public must be enlightened. But from what we've seen, it's only in the hands of the Police Department and three or five NGOs, which is not true. We also have over 5 million people living in Europe, besides Turkey. They also have a very serious problem with drug use. When you look at the prisons in Europe, especially in Germany, over 30,000 of our young people are in prison, and many of them appear to have been in prison for drug crimes. So we must also say that it is our duty to take care of our young people and our people in and out of our country, in the Turkish world, outside Turkey. I believe this motion of our research is considered this way, and we'll set up a similar commission that we've established in the past term, we'll take the necessary precautions, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0071par0053	Thank you, Mr. Right. Against him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Domac. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Domach.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0072par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We have heard of the death of the legendary Tripolin footballer, the model man Kadir Ozcan, and I wish him God's mercy. My condolences to his family, his loved ones, the Tripolians. Dear MPs, I'm going to try to express my views on the National Movement Party's research motion. Substance addiction, as you know, is a very common subject in the world, and it's been tried to prevent it from being prevented by everyone. A problem with biological, spiritual and social dimensions. Those who cause substance abuse can be listed primarily as tobacco, alcohol, volatile substances, drugs. There are many other synthetic substances. Although the use of what is called drugs is relatively low, it causes a lot of social problems and is addictive and creates serious addictions. As you know, Turkey is on an important transit route connecting Asia and Europe, the historic Silk Road is passing through our country. Unfortunately, drug trafficking and trafficking are also active in this area. In Afghanistan, traffickers of such substances as morphine, heroin, cannabis produced in Iran are trying to use our country as a road from east to west. Psychotropics, synthetic products, on the contrary, are moving from west to our country. We have a very experienced police force on this subject, and large measures are being taken against smugglers who are considering this transit road, and a large number of addictive substances are being blocked, arrested by our security, and a large number of people are being taken into custody. This, unfortunately, has been widely forced to be used among children recently in our country. Dear lawmakers, psychologists, sociologists, social worker experts describe this addiction as a disorder of behavior; it is also considered as a disease, which is banned from law enforcement, lawyers, judges, prosecutors. The fight against drugs is of close interest to law enforcement and every part of society, especially families. In this struggle, we must first warn our young and our children and protect them from matter. The treatment programmes for people using drugs and stimulant drugs in our country are conducted by the Ministry of Health and Treatment Services General Directorate. The number of drug addicts in our country was 2,078 in 2005, 2,853 in 2006, 2.492 in 2007 and 8,696 in 2012. The most important improvement in drug abuse treatment is in the field of standing treatment. As a result of effective policies against addiction to tobacco products in particular, in 2012, the number of patients who were treated standing up to 38,000 in 2007 increased to 218,000. In 2008, there were 20 treatment centres with 493 beds for drug-addicted treatment, while in 2012, the number of treatment facilities increased to 25. The number of beds increased to 688. Honourable lawmakers, in 2008, in order to identify problems related to substance abuse, addiction, trafficking and to produce solution proposals, we set up a commission in our parliament to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating drug abuse and trafficking issues, particularly drugs. This commission conducted four months of work in the 23rd term, 34 meetings and 37 sessions. For information on the matter, academics, relevant organisations, NGOs were invited to discuss the matter. On 26 February 2009, the report was discussed in our Parliament, and at the end of this meeting, the issues that had been established were: A standard terminology should be used in the definition of activities aimed at preventing and controlling substance use, and as one of the basic principles of a common policy between sectors, this language should be popularised, the message that substance abuse is a health problem should be given to society more intensive and stressed, especially the responsibility of the media in this regard. This message revealed that substance abuse is a treatable problem and that emphasis on the importance of applying to health care institutions should be included. Other cases related to crimes have been made to ensure that those who report crimes related to drugs and psychotropic substances will not be kept secret without their consent, that they will not be heard under witness or other adjectives, that other cases related to these crimes will not be combined with cases related to these crimes, except those likely to affect the element or punishments of these crimes. All of these crimes have been voiced under the Witness Protection Act of informants and witnesses. In schools, it has been reported that work is being done to improve the staff of psychological counselling and guidance teachers, who are the main responsibility for social and psychological support programmes, and to ensure that each child is placed in a way that can be reached. A legal arrangement for the removal or restricting of alcohol-related films shown in both media and cinemas has been proposed; this has come to life. The report presented suggestions on the subject of drug and substance abuse as one of the constant agendas of the written and visual media. Children's police have been developed to employ social workers, psychologists, and sociologists, who have been serving in the Children's Department all the time. If the goal was to reintegrate children into society, the economic, social, psychological, pedagogic dimension of the event was to be fully comprehended. Several proposals have been made in the Turkish Penal Code, such as the restructuring of penalties for fighting substance abuse. Precious lawmakers, especially research among young people, show that most of those who use drugs are primarily used by tobacco and alcohol, and then using drugs. Hence, the most effective way to protect our young ones from drugs is to protect them from addictive substances such as tobacco and alcohol. For this purpose, tobacco products are required to be added to them as health hazards, and advertising and promotions of tobacco and alcohol products are prohibited. In particular, programs aimed at describing the health damage of tobacco products, public spotlights broadcast on television, and activities to raise awareness of our people and young people. Studies in our universities show that in recent years, tobacco and alcohol products have declined in turn, and our young people who use them want to get rid of their addictions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we cannot participate in the motion to form a research commission from the National Movement Party, but we cannot participate in the motion due to the effective fight against the Parliament's research commission and substance abuse, which has been established and submitted its report on the issue. I salute you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0073par0077	Thank you, Mr. Domaç. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0074par0081	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on drugs. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, as a fan of Tripolispor, the legendary footballer of the deceased Tripolispor, and at the same time, 1461 Tripolin coach Kadir Ozcana, God's mercy, his family, and all his loved ones. Dear friends, as in the world, Turkey has a high level of drug addiction. This drug addiction has become so much -- the speaker just gave me numbers, and I'll give it to you -- that Turkey is in a terrible situation. Our young, even our children, especially our children in elementary school, have started using drugs. Their age limit also -- just now Reshad Bey said -- is down to 11. So the 11-year-old has started using drugs, and this number has increased and increased, in schools, in middle school, in high school, in high school, in college, and all parts of society, and there's a terrible amount of drug segments that need to be treated in bed, but some patients who are drug-sick should be treated in bed, while there are AMATEMs, the treatment centers of drug addicts, the treatment centers of these treatment centers, the government here, I'm asking you, how many centers are there in Turkey that treat drug addictions? Do people in this center, patients, go and get treatment? Do our children who are addicted to drugs survive here? No. Call Bakırköy, look for Balıklı Rum Hospital, call Erenköy, call Elazığ, try to put a child to bed, the patient is already in a bad mood, he's already on drugs, these kids are in a terrible situation, they won't admit him to hospitals, there's no room. They say they'll make an appointment in six months, three months. When they make appointments like this, patients either commit suicide or die. Dear friends, is this supposed to be the duty of the social government? So if there are four or five drug addiction centers in an entire state of the Republic of Turkey, if there are AMATEMS, can we handle it? Our population is close to 80 million. Dear friends, in this sense, the government and the relevant ministry must take precautions, and I believe that in order for drug users to be treated, the centers must be multiplied. Dear friends, the main source of the drug is the motherland of Afghanistan. From Afghanistan to Iran, this goes to Turkey, Turkey to the European Union and the United States through Iran.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0075par0086	Is Ardahan coming to Ardahan, Ardahana?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0074par0087	There is no Ardahan. There is no Ardahan. There is no Ardahan. Sir, in such a situation, Turkey seems to have taken no precautions here, and I'm going to tell you now how much the numbers have increased during the Justice and Development Party's time, how many people are using drugs have increased, according to the Security Directorate reports. Dear friends, operations against drug traffickers over the past five years have increased by 48 per cent and the number of suspects detained has increased by 55 per cent; 55 per cent has increased. According to the previous year, the number of operations has increased by 30 per cent, while the number of suspects of 19 per cent have increased by 55 per cent. The number of suspects increased from 19 percent to 55 percent is the number of suspects using drugs. The amount of heroin seized is 6 tons 412 kilos. According to 2011, they have increased by 72 per cent and gained 11 tonnes of weight. That's six tons, 11 tons of friends. Where are the measures, Mr. Speaker? Here are the numbers the safety gave you. Heroin trafficking has risen from 6 tonnes to 11 tonnes, in the period of the 72 per cent-enhanced AKP (AKP) - from 2010 to 2011. Go ahead and burn it from here! What the hell is this? Give me an answer. - Don't burn it, don't burn it! Don't burn it, don't burn it! Yes, now, look, I'll give you another number, Mr. Runer. According to the previous year, the number of people taken into custody increased by 13 percent. Look, the number of drug users that have increased 13 percent between last year and this year. The amount of marijuana seized -- well, Mr. Ünal Kaçir, listen to this, you've been forced to itch, stop -- the amount of 46 tons 918 kilograms has increased by 59 per cent to 605 kilograms, according to 2011.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0076par0092	Are you going to scratch Mr. Ünal? What do you say?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0074par0093	Yeah, it itches! Now, 46 tons is 74 tons. Mr. Ünal Kaçir, tell me, is it 46 big or 74 big? If you can catch him, he's caught, he's caught, he's caught, he's caught, he's caught bad. Now, Mr. Secretary, we need to take precautions on this. This poisons Turkey, poisons our people. Now, this also comes to us from Holland, Belgium, as a joint and drink for him, as well as as as an Ecstasy. Look, you know what that is? In the 1,182 operations held last year, 1 million 649, 379 tablets were found, 2,195 people were taken into custody, friends. Dear friends, we're running out of time, so I'd like to thank Turkey's Drug and Drug Addiction Watch Center in your presence. Abbreviated name: TUBIM. They're struggling terribly. Everyone's struggling, but we need to take more precautions. These measures are in the hands of the government. You're the Minister of Customs. He passes customs and poisons Turkey, and as he poisons Turkey, our young people are poisoned, and we can't find a bed for poisoned young people, and there's no hospital. If you want, I'll give you their address, and most of them commit suicide. So... we're not saying this to slander, to slander, I'm saying this as a warning. Write these down, take the transcripts, are these the facts or not? I got this from the Police Department. Dear friends, the highest mortality rates are 42.9% to Istanbul; 8.6% to Adana; 5.7% to Mersin; 4.8% to Antalya; 4.8% to Ankara; 3.8% to Gaziantep; 2.9% to Nevşehir; 2.9% to Van. These cities are the cities that use the most drugs. We got these numbers from the Police Department. Now, there's no measure here, we've taken precautions. It's not blah blah blah blah, those numbers, brother, are real numbers. Turkey's youth is poisoned, our children poisoned, poisoned in schools. The Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, has to coordinate in an absolute way to ensure that these drugs don't come, that both in schools and hospitals must take precautions, and at least in order for our young people and our people to be treated with drugs to be treated, says the Council has proposed a motion to investigate.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0077par0100	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Against Eskişehir MP Salih Husband. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0078par0104	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment against the National Movement Party's proposal. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, I'd like to extend my condolences to our 1461 Tripoli's technical director, who we've lost, to God's mercy and to the community, and at the same time today, we're living together again on a really important anniversary, and we have citizens who have lost because of the Van earthquake. In that sense, we pray for God's mercy to our lost citizens. And in that sense, really serious steps have been taken, and I'd like to point out here in particular. This country has experienced serious earthquakes so far, and we are in a country that is facing natural disasters because of our geographical position. We face both floods and earthquakes all the time because our geographical position predicts this, but, of course, in this sense, serious steps have been taken and taken. Along with commissions set up specifically on earthquakes, and in the following earthquakes and in the Van earthquake, our government has taken all the measures it can really take as soon as possible. Especially with regard to the flat earthquake, we all experienced this earthquake together, and that morning we moved from Eskişehir to Düzce. We went from Eskişehir to Düzce. We tried to share the suffering of our citizens together. But in particular within a few hours after the earthquake in Van's earthquake, our Prime Minister, our ministers, and our government, together with all public institutions and organizations, in a sense, took their breath in Van, and they took necessary measures, taking steps on the necessary challenges. At the very beginning of the dangers facing Turkey, perhaps an earthquake is coming, but it's also important, as important as these natural disasters, and we believe that drug and substance abuse is at the top of the issues that we need to fight and take precautions. In particular, important work has been done so far in the name of the fight against drug and drug abuse, and significant steps have been taken. To this end, serious steps have been taken, perhaps the first step in dealing with drugs, both in smoking and in the way that leads to drugs. In particular, there have been constant discussions about our students and their families, and in this regard, information has been made about raising awareness of our children and continuing to be done. Our esteemed congressman has just made a broad statement on the matter. Our government, along with the work it has done, continues to work on both steps in dealing with drugs and making legal arrangements on this agenda. At the same time, our House is concerned with the steps taken and the work we're working on. There's something that's really flattering here, and we see that all of our political parties agree on the fight against drugs, we see that all of our MPs agree on the fight against substance abuse, and I believe that as long as there's unity and unity in this fight, we will succeed. In accordance with the work done, I think it's better that our General Assembly continue on the agenda of the following work, as we share many things about the content of this group's proposal, as follows, and I say we are against the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0079par0109	Thank you, Mr. Husband. I submit to your votes the National Party of Action Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and then vote for: 23.10.2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (January 23,10,2013), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 10,10,2013, by Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş and his friends, the parliamentary research motion issued to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to uncover the possibility of sabotage and terror attacks on the explosion in the munitions warehouse in the Afyonkarahisar. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks in the Wednesday's association on Wednesday (23,10,2013). In favor of the proposal, Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0080par0124	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mete Saraç Barrack 41 in Afyonkarahisar. I have made a commitment to express my opinion on our motion to investigate a parliamentary investigation into the armory explosion of the Armory Company Command. I humbly salute the High Council. Congressmans, as we all know, about a year ago on September 5, 2012, at approximately 9:15 p.m., there was a massive explosion in the munitions depot in Afyonkarahisar, and 25 of our soldiers were killed as a result of the explosion. From our fallen soldiers, 15 martyrs are short-term soldiers who have just arrived at the warehouse where the explosion took place from three to seven days ago. As soon as the news of the explosion was heard, the whole of Turkey watched the incident in great pain and infuriation, and thus far has followed the process. The families of the soldiers who were killed in the explosion continue to follow the process as an example in pain that none of us could ever imagine, because it's been full of examples from the beginning. See, dear friends, on the morning of the explosion, around 9 a.m. on the morning of September 6th, 12 hours after the explosion and the explosion continues, there's no way to get into the blast site, and at a time like this, Afyon MP, Minister of Forest and Water Minister Veysel Eroglu says, I saw the location of the incident, and there was no way to sabotage from the outside. So I decided it was definitely an accident. He's making a statement in the form of an accident, at a time when the fires were still lit at the scene and no one was brought near the crime scene. Again, a day after that, during an interview he gave to a television station in the morning of September 7th, the Prime Minister ruled that the incident was an accident in an Afyonkarahisar warehouse owned by the Turkish Armed Forces. I mean, we don't have the identities of our martyrs yet, there's no way to get into the blast site, no one's getting in, no one's getting close, but our Prime Minister and Minister have decided to crash this incident. Dear friends, unlike the Minister and Prime Minister, experts have indicated that the possibility of sabotage is more likely than an accident, suggesting and recommending that the possibility of sabotage should be investigated. In this sentence, Republican People's Party's President, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, asked that this matter be investigated in light of the information given to him by experts, possibly sabotage, sabotage. So we've brought up the possibility of sabotage and terrorism at the time of the incident, and we've tried to explain it over and over again in our press conferences in the House talks. After the Prime Minister and Minister have ruled the incident an accident, can the Antalya Public Prosecutor's Office take action to investigate whether there was an investigation or sabotage? Because the duty and authority, the special prosecutor, Antalya's special prosecutor, has not taken action. Look, my dear friends, we've given 25 martyrs, there's been a major explosion in Turkey, and in the event of an explosion, everyone is saying the possibility of sabotage, but Anthalya's special prosecutor has asked the Attorney General what's going on there because he didn't even have to ask him what's going on there. Dear friends, it is enough that the Prime Minister says "accidental." A false rabbi reported that the country's Chief of Staff, the command, the intellectuals were locked in with a false rabbi, but the leader of the main opposition party's claim was ignored because it should not be heard, the sons of anchors could come out of it. As the opium people spoke, the suspicion of a shipment of armory from here to Syria was in everyone's heads, not an arsenal. That's what could have come out of it if it was investigated. Dear friends, what happened next? The investigation continued after the accident, the military prosecutor has filed an indictment over the accident, and has been brought to trial by the indictment filed after the accident, and now the military court is making an accident trial. I hope I'm wrong, but at the end of the day, the court's decision will be closed in an accident. But it can't be closed by accident, it can't be closed, it shouldn't be closed, it shouldn't be closed. Dear friends, the case has not been investigated, no serious investigations. Look, a suspect at the scene was chased by the Opiums. The unsub's pursuers have applied for governorship. I asked from the governor's office, what about the statements of those who reported the suspect and informed on him? They returned to me today, the information that the Governor has given me is that the person was thrown out of the fence by the explosion, wounded, brought him to the hospital. A person like that didn't show up at the hospital. If he had been investigated, it would have turned out to be one of the suspects. The shape wasn't asked, the schematics weren't asked, the description wasn't described, the CCTV footage wasn't examined, and this person was shut down. This person has been shut down, but there are other evidence in the file that can't be closed. Dear friends, there is a note of information sent by the MIT, which says that two men who served in the Afyon (Afyon), who served in this munitions warehouse, were involved in the construction of DHKP-C Hatay; and there is also a note of information among the militia in Mardin Darseçit district. There has been no investigation into these individuals. Again, according to a document reflected in the file by the Gendarme General Command, the information memo came as a month prior to the incident in the province of Afyonkarahisar, in which three members of the women's terrorist organization were considered to reside in the parcels of Istanbul were initially in the province of İzmir. How will these evidence be explained? I'm asking if they're going to close the case by accident. Coroner's Office has a report. In a study of tissue samples, the Coroner's Office identified plastic explosive chemicals. There's no way to explain the plastic explosive chemical in the warehouse. He said he detected an explosive device that was available to open a deep hole in the warehouse. How are you going to get this out of this file? How are you gonna tell people it was an accident? Dear friends, I want you to support this research motion. I want to say something else. I watched the hearings, I watched the investigation, I went to the courts. You know what they say, families of martyrs? The mother of the martyr: I sent my son to the army, and they delivered a handful of ashes to him. The father of the martyr: I fed him, and I could not walk him, and he wanted to return to his unit to work for his friends, and I could not see again. I was an orphan, and my children would be orphaned. Somebody tell me what happened. One mother of the martyrs, Esma (Egyptian), the Prime Minister who cried to Mohammed (Mohamed), did not give me a phone call. So our children are far more worthless to this country than the Muslim brothers. How can he expect me to tell you, thanks to the country? Dear friends, the blood of the martyrs stays on the ground. Both my hands are on your side. He says, "Look for the truth, and the accident is sabotage." Explain the truth to me. I'll tell you something else, dear friends. This martyr mother and father applied, and there was a law of martyrdom, and my children were lost in natural disaster, and now they're martyrs; give them a travel card. The law was passed on August 2nd. In their response two months later, we can't give you a travel pass because there are no regulations. So in two months, you won't be able to prepare a code for a family of martyrs, you won't be able to give a travel pass, but you will continue to rule the world. We're all doomed, dear friends. The blood of the martyrs will remain on the ground. Support this motion for research, please investigate, and if it was an accident, sabotage, sabotage, let it come out real. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0081par0143	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Against Muk MP Iron Steel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0082par0147	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the explosion of the ammunition depot in Afyonkarahisar. I salute you all. It's been over 24 months since the Van earthquake we entered on our second anniversary today. While the Van earthquake's injuries were unrestrained, it is incomprehensible to insist that the Van earthquake does not comply with a legitimate and basic demand for housing and containers, while about 20 families are on a hunger strike to a death fast due to the fact that it does not meet their demands. But we haven't seen the reason for this behavior, this insensitivity, just in Van. We are well aware of this understanding because it is being handed out in any part of the world, and its own citizen is becoming a citizen of the other, and it is being immediately entered into the search for a change of heart, because he is becoming a citizen of the other. In that sense, I express the need for this legitimate demand to be met at once, and to be overcome by this mindset and so on, and to be brought into action by the Parliament for a return of at least the rights of a citizen. Mr. President, in Afyonkarahisar, yes, in 13 months ago, an arsenal of ammunition explodes from reasons that have not yet been cleared of sabotage or neglect, and 25 soldiers, including 21, die in total. Thirteen months have passed, but the Special Prosecutor of Antalya, who is in charge of the investigation, feels that there is no room for an investigation, and we are asked to be content with tears that have been shed behind those who have died without any further investigation, which is the only option. But we also know that understanding. In Roboski, Sivas, where we are not strangers to the understanding of this understanding, which we can't face, which we can't face, which we've avoided, which is a denial of the understanding of the nation's unitary state, which is the product of the mind, but it's also the product of the idea of raising power, the creation of capital, the entwining and expanding hegemonic power, the ability to grow power, rather than the freedoms of society and society. For this, wars are fought to protect and protect the border, which is given to the national markets. In this sense, poor people children -- from Kurdish to Turkish -- are put on the target of war machines of death; soon after being forced into the army against their will, they die in the first ten days of unknown explosions. It's a matter that needs to go above all else in this House to investigate the same way it did in the Roboski massacre. But it's a pity that in this area, where the governance of the ruling focal points of dirty relations runs through, there's no point in covering up the truth instead of facing the truth, because it's the future of power, government, hegemonic power. From there, Al Nusra is asked to consider a way to eliminate the choice of self-government of the Syrian peoples based on their own power, which will be transferred to Al Qaeda, Al Qaeda. So it will not be explained, it will not be tried to explain, it will be covered up, because we know from the Forearm of Ceylan. In the prime of his life, innocent, innocent, yet full of life, we know how many Kurds lost their lives and their lives in the mountains, forgotten scraps of war and ammunition. But he's also never had any special authority, unauthorized prosecutors, or any sensitivity to being caught and brought to justice by the perpetrators. This continues to be similar to that of the 90s, when some of those ignorant, out-of-control, deep states, parallel state extensions. Today, as Antalya Special Prosecutor's Court in Afyonkarahisar, the Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Court prevents us from confronting Ceylan Önkol and lice and preventing us from meeting with the truth at a decisive point, the ruling courts, martial law courts, state security courts and special authorities are being charged with serving power in a place that protects, protects, destroys people, people, people. This mentality concludes itself in the barracks with the deaths of soldiers. Because the Kurdish child is either facing torture and abuse in his native language, either psychological depression, death, or suicide is the only option, or we know from understanding that he is a Christian, Jewish, Jewish, because he is a Jew and does not fast in Ramadan's fast, let alone in the barracks, because he does not fast in the street or performs prayer, because he is a member of a different religion. The mindset that does not see man as a human being, that sees the sustainability of the ecosystem, that is essential to its natural balance, that tries to subjugate and subjugate man, is the same as the mentality that has been trying to conquer nature and society for tens of thousands of years. It is power, which is crippled, which is evil, and is the mother of all evil, that is the state, who wants war; and war is poverty, hunger, misery. Instead, when there is a chance to fight, to fight, to treat the other, to live together in peace with his citizen, the means of war are stored, the tools of war are detonated, the innocent, innocent children of the people are made to be subject to vomiting in the back of ammunition, as well as in the back of the war, and in the back of the war, the killing machine vomits. The explosion in the Afyonkarahisar armory, but at the same time, many of the deaths in barracks that we can't count, whose name we can't remember, many of the cases called suicides need to be illuminated. If the Parliament cannot shed light on the many unsolved events, political and historical events that remain in the blind, dark pages of history, it will also betray its historical role and its historical duty and responsibilities, if it cannot reveal the perpetrators of the explosions in Afyonkarahisar, Kırıkkale, and the perpetrators of Ceylan Önkol. Therefore, as a result of the political representation we have received from the public, we should be able to fulfill the virtues of being an honorable human being in Turkey's present day, where people have been unable to reach the obstacles and barricades that they face. Which means we're going to vote in favor of the research proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0083par0159	Thank you, Mr. Steel. In favour of the proposal, Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0084par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group upon the request to investigate a parliamentary investigation into the explosion of the Afyon County Ammunition Storage Command Martyr Mete Sarac barracks on September 5, 2012. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, at approximately 9:15 p.m. on 5 September 2012, a large explosion, which could have been heard from many districts and cities of the city, had been reported by 4 soldiers and many of our civilian citizens who had been injured. The barracks, where the explosion occurred, are located in the center of the city, near the settlements. Following this explosion, both military officials and the government's statements have raised serious doubt in all public opinion. There's still no information to satisfy the public and the families of the grieving martyrs as to the exact cause of the explosion. Serious speculation has been raised about the time of the explosion and the type of ammunition that exploded. Statements made by government officials as "accidental" have been excluded from public enlightenment and persuasion by military officials as an unknown explosion. The work of the lawsuits following the explosion, and reports of recent reports by Forensic Medicine, which have been identified by the attorneys of the families of our martyrs, have raised new questions. A study of tissue fragments that could have been found after such a massive explosion has found plastic explosive chemicals and pit disposal chemicals that were never supposed to be found in the warehouse where the explosion occurred. The tissues sent to the Medical Examiner's Office are still untraceable and still untraceable. The entire report of the Department of Chemistry residency remains unsolicited to public opinion. It is said that these explosives detected by the Department of Chemistry would not be possible to detonate on its own or without external physical impact. An examination in that direction has not yet been conducted. Many of the standards that should be followed in ammunition stores are sadly ignored, almost as if the ground was set to explode. Dear lawmakers are also made clear in the expert reports and witness statements that false Vascay cameras were used in the Martyr Mete Sarac barracks, one of the key arsenals of the Republic of Turkey. The Turkish army, which was budgeted billions of dollars, couldn't afford to build a system with 20 cameras? Dear lawmakers, the withdrawal of the military court during the trial, the very serious contradictions in statements and narratives reflected in the indictments and defences are deeply damaging the entire community, and the pollution of this information is causing the right reactions of the families of our martyrs, even from time to time, riots. In addition, even the governor, who was the representative of the state, who had been exposed to the explosion in my district of Afyon, in the first year's reading sheriff and memorial programme, had increased the response of the martyr families after the explosion, who had made headlines to the Chief of Staff with rugs and rugs. A year ago, it was the absolute right of our fellow martyrs to see the officials and governor of the state who had made so many promises from the solution of the incident to the relief of suffering, to ask their questions, to see their concerns, to see their complaints, to see the state officials present at their side. Congressmans, you are aware that even underestimating the status of public testimony as the loss of natural disaster, the government has been forced to return the rights our martyrs deserve by stepping back in the face of intense opposition pressure and public responses. This government, which values the traffickers too much, even the perpetrators, has forgotten their commitments over a year, and has failed to make a monument to the memory of our 25 martyrs, even though they had promised it. They've seen too much of the martyrdom office, they can't even make a monument. As opium people, we welcome our sons who drink the medicine of our city, share the pain of our families, and immediately, we want a memorial to be established in every aspect of the incident, to find the responsible, to punish the criminals, and to preserve the spiritual memories of our martyrs in the area of the explosion. Dear lawmakers, the cause of the explosion must be investigated and found. Regarding the matter, on October 2, 2013, I had again taken the matter from this bench to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by speaking off the agenda. It is of great importance to have the Grand Assembly in charge of this matter and to have a research commission. In these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0085par0177	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Against him is Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0086par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the Republican People's Party to investigate the Parliament under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of the Constitution, in order to uncover the possibilities of sabotage and terrorist attacks in the arsenal in Afyonkarahisar. I salute you all. Afyonkarahisar Ataköy, 500, to be remembered. In the explosion that took place on September 5, 2012, 25 soldiers were killed and 11 others were injured. First of all, to the martyrs we have sent to eternity in the wake of the accident, to whom we have left the anniversary of the event, I pray for the mercy of Almighty God, the peace of our nation. Dear lawmakers, after the explosion, a serious approach has been made to the authorities involved. From the very first day, our government and our Chief of Staff have carefully focused on the cause and the consequences of the incident. The explosion occurred in a restricted area. Also, after months of searching and scanning for bombs, the military prosecutor's case was completed by Eskişehir 1 on June 18, 2013. He was sent to the Air Force Command Military Court. The last trial to continue in this court was on October 8, 2013, and the next hearing will be on December 3, 2013. I think it would be prudent to expect the results of the criminal investigation to be investigated and made statements regarding the ongoing incident. Dear lawmakers, the hand of our nation and the Turkish Armed Forces was given enlightening information on the incident on September 7, 2012, as a result of a review of the position of Chief of Staff and Commander of the Army. I think it would be helpful for us to remember the statement from our Chief of Staff and take it into consideration. 284,550 grenades were transferred to the warehouse commander in Afyon after the dismantling of the Susurity Ammunition Storage Command, and the ammunition was temporarily stored. The count of the ammunition began on 4 September 2012, under the command of the company commander, in the process of relocating the manuscript and relocating it. On 5 September 2012, the same day, around 9:15 p.m., two consecutive explosions occurred in the warehouse. According to eyewitness statements, it was discovered that the explosion was in storage, while there were two petty officers, two veterans, and three or four long-term soldiers in the warehouse, the hoarding was done by these staff, who were in charge and experts, while the other soldiers were not in the warehouse and were outside the warehouse. At the beginning of the mission, it has been learned that necessary warnings and reminders were made by Sergeant Major Bedri Naim, the D.C. Petty Officer, who was a martyr to the privates and privates. After dark, it has been learned that we should secure a small number of ammunition that remain outside and continue to work with the idea of ending the activities, but that there is no information as to how the explosion occurred. It should also be added that the Army Command's 2010 Storage of Ammunitions and Safety Standards Technical Instruction shall not be stored in the open, including a small gun grenade. The sentence shall be carried out. Dear lawmakers, it has been made public in some visual media that our soldiers who have been killed are the new soldiers, but in our first review of the General Staff, it is clear that this has nothing to do with the truth. 15 of our soldiers were short-term soldiers. Short-term soldiers are distributed to their troops after three weeks of basic military training and military oaths. This short term of martyrdom, 15 of our soldiers were soldiers for a month. These were not commissioned by the inventory and hoarding of ammunition, but by moving the ammunition out of the warehouse without entering the warehouse. Two petty officers, two sergeants, three or four long-term soldiers were in the stockpile. Of the six soldiers who were killed while serving as soldiers for a long period of 15 months, two were twelve months, one was nine months, two were six months, and one was three months. Dear lawmakers, in a year's time, both our government and our General Staff have shown a sensitive approach and continue to display it. We share the pain of the families of the martyrs we lost in the incident. In the same law, 25 of our soldiers who lost their lives in Afyonkarahisar, who were injured in the explosion, including the victim of a martyr or terror, were taken into account as their property. Mr. President, valued members, if we recall, the 1st in Eskişehir. At his first hearing at the Air Force Command Military Court on June 18, 2012, his expert witness was reported as an accident. The court would not be right to claim that there is a connection to sabotage or terrorist organization regarding the ongoing incident. Information and documents that may prove such claims must be submitted to the court in which the case is being carried out. There's a case going on in a military court right now. In this case, if the evidence is evaluated and later found, the court may decide to expand the investigation; the possibility of sabotage and terrorism may be a subject of trial. It would not be appropriate to open the Parliament's investigation on an ongoing matter. I do not agree with the Republican People's Party's offer of parliamentary research in order to uncover the possibility of sabotage and terror attacks in the munitions warehouse in Afyonkarahisar. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0087par0192	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0088par0193	Mr. President, there's been a diversion. Dear orator, perhaps knowingly or not... Because of this trial, the trial in the military court, here, wait for the result. We say that this cannot be judged in a military court. He read the indictment. We already know about this indictment. This indictment is what made it so. Explain the explosives in the file here, explain the report of the MET, explain the report of the General Command of the Gendarmes. We say that they don't exist. ▪ Sue them, he says. He doesn't know, Mr. Speaker. These are in the court file, but they're being ignored, so bring this.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0089par0197	Yeah, copy that.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0090par0198	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit02spe0089par0199	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0089par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Agriculture Forest and Village Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, where we left off from the 3rd ranking Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement Approved. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. (x) 173 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 120th Union of 23/6/2013. Over the entire bill in the 120th Union of 1306.2013, talks were completed for the government with the Republican People's Party Group, the Peace and Democracy Party Group. There is no further demand for a word from all of them. Thus, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ORTA ASIA AND CAFKAS ACTIVITY OF DISCOVERY AND SURVOLUTION COMMISSION PROGRAMS OF THE BLOOD TO FIND THE SLEEPING MADDE 1- (1), the approval of the Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fishing and Water Product Development Commission (EC) was approved. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan will speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0091par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the first amendment of the current bill. Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement, I would like to point out that we approve the ratification of the agreement, because these reasons are: fish is food, fish is labor, fish is food, fish is cosmetic, fish is fishing fishing, net, ornamental, food is the most natural fat of food, transport, ship, and cold air storage. It's basically employment because what we're talking about most today is employment, unemployment. Fishing is a great source of employment both in our lakes and in our rivers and in our seas. It's just that we haven't been able to use it long enough. Our warnings and suggestions will be made to you. Our fishermen expect much from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. For example, we call them diesel, the largest inputs in the diesel. There's a improvement in this, there's demands that their boats be given cheap diesel, there's demands that they apply quotas, there's an interest-free loan to the boats. These don't stop counting. That's why we care about it. Although three sides of Turkey are surrounded by seas, our Anatolian is equipped with lakes, teas, and dams, our fishermen can't serve as they please, and they can't serve as they please. I mean, we don't have enough use for our seas and our internal waters, and it's in the hands of fishermen and boats. Trout businesses are screaming. These are, you know, private government contracts with private administrations, leases in all cities, but they're complaining about the extra rents. Because they have bait inputs, energy inputs, energy is expensive. We're still getting 18 percent VAT in energy from these. They want a one percent VAT in this energy. There's a price on bait. In fact, from time to time, it is said that everything is being done. Why are not imported bait made? We're against it, we're against import food, we're against imported hay, we're against imported food products, but it's a scream. We're buying the feeder barley cheap, importing corn from the citizen, and importing it cheap. We have corn production. We call it ▪ but we can't keep up with the increase in the bait. That's why the manufacturers have the authority of the government in the bait... at least to bring down the VAT in the bait. For this to be taken to 1 percent... because we're making controlled productions. We want a tax to get rid of the unregistered. There are demands that this be moved to the most reasonable level, 1 percent, and I demand that he consider it. I said the fishermen are waiting for our support. Light and hunting finish fishing. Fish stocks in the seas are getting smaller every year because it's a natural resource. There's wrong hunting, and it's getting smaller every year. There is no conscious, sustainable fishing in our country. Fishermen cut down the branch they're riding. Civil society organisations must make quotas for the fish. They are expressing their demands. اStok assessments must be made immediately. It is also wrong to put quotas without inventory. They are repeating their demands. Without quotas, sustainable fishing can't be balanced without sustainable fishing, so there's fish in our country, our citizen can't reach fish, our fisherman can't make money. In order for this to be random, the supply-to-request balances need to be maintained, and the cold-air chains need to be maintained, and the cold-air warehouses need to be adjusted in their favor. You know, there's energy input in the cold air tanks, too. Again, because it is agricultural, he has demands that an 18 per cent VAT (CDV) in energy be moved to 1 per cent. Again, troll hunting out of control. This troll, a raging fisherman, is doing serious damage to the seas in his hand. However, if he has an honest fisherman, he contributes to the country's economy. We need to make good use of this. I read an article last time, and he made a pretty good statement in that article, and he's a fisherman. When a knife is found, the doctor sees a scalpel, gives health, but a murderer takes life in his hand, he says. So is the troll. If we use it in place, it improves our fishing, but if we don't use it in place, it's damaging fishing. These don't stop counting. Again, I'd like to share with you, my dear friends, as well -- we have lakes in our country, big and small -- about 10,000 square miles. Again, we have dam lakes, 3,000 square kilometers. Our streams are 178 thousand square kilometers. In our country, in our seas, we have anthrax, we have a torque, we have a mascara, we have a mackerel, we have statism, we have kephalite, we have shield, we have lupus, we have a barbu. These are our country's revenues and revenues, but we're not allowed to own them enough to sustain their production. We have carp in our lakes and fresh water, we have silver fish, we have mustache fish, we have honey water kephali, we have pearlfish, we have fresh water bass, we have literature, we have cranes, we have trout, we have carp, we have mirrored carp. They expect us to have some kind of production support. These aren't supposed to be extinct. These gene sources are our common values. Again, we have crayfish, lobster and squid in the water products. We need your cooperation for that, my dear friends. We're going to take care of production, we're going to take care of consumption, we're going to make sure that we get controlled, healthy food to our citizens because it creates proteins for thinking, for producing brains. High Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says that the basis of the Republic of Turkey is culture. The largest source of this is animal products - fish and fish products, chicken, winged products, meat, milk. As long as there's these products, our brains think, people get healthy. That's why we find this deal appropriate. We need to develop trade agreements on these water products in both the Middle East and Asia, in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and open export routes to the European Union countries from these areas. But today, on the eve of this holiday, I would like to share with you the impressions I get from fellow teachers in the east and southeast of our region. It's now entering the kiwi we produce in East and Southeast Anatolia, the walnut we produce, the almonds, the illegal entrances. There's fish products, fish products, customs from the larvae to the eggs of the fish, duty-free entrances, which need to be controlled because these unregistered entrances are victimizing the manufacturer in the country, causing unfair competition. Let these in, let them in, but let the customs be done, and we have demands that our inner citizen not be unfairly competitive with the products he produces. In this matter, I call upon our government to be serious. We've left the live animal, look, I repeat, walnuts, kiwis, almonds are entering the border without duty today. We acquired these products by supporting them in recent years. Many of our citizens have switched to kiwi production in the Black Sea. Ties are broken, kiwis are produced in new lands, but Black Sea producers suffer from kiwi in the sense of unfair competition. Again, from our districts in Central Anatolia, in West Anatolia, the walnuts were supported, and the walnut production in our country -- because the native of walnuts and almonds, Asia Minor -- has been increased, but now there are unregistered entries. I salute your grand delegation with the wishes of your immediate control of these uncontrollable entrances, and I wish the law to be good luck and good luck.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0092par0041	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0093par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 1 of the Dair Legislature, on the 1st article of the Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fishing and Water Products Commission Agreement. I hereby salute your grand delegation, and wish to begin with my wishes that the law be good for our country, for our country's fishing and for water products. I'd like to remind you that we, the National Movement Party, have seen and supported all international agreements, except for a few international agreements so far. In particular, aside from the two international contracts on the nuclear plant, I would like to remind you once again that we support all international contracts brought into this grand parliament as the National Party of Action. I'd like to say that we've also seen this agreement as positive, and that we should take this opportunity together to solve some of our country's problems on this issue. Dear lawmakers, with this agreement our country will be allowed to join an international commission, but I would like to present it to the High Council's compliments that membership itself means nothing, that it must be done. One of the most important problems our country has in water products and fishing today is that it unfortunately has not been able to evaluate its internal resources sufficiently and efficiently. The staff infrastructure required for this is inadequate, and I believe that the cry of the fisheries and water products engineers within the sector, especially in this regard, has reached out and continues to reach all of our MPs in the Supreme Assembly. With a degree in water products engineers approaching 20,000 today, I'm afraid our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has forgotten our commitments, including the fact that, for example, in the 2013 budget, the Department of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has become unusable to use staff, which I'm sure should make you think about. Today at the beginning of the merger, even though I had brought up the subject of the employment of agricultural engineers, I have continued to hear the cries of our water products engineer and food engineer friends with you until this very moment. As of today, about 800 water products engineers serve within the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, according to Ministry records again. One of the most important problems, however, is that, unfortunately, construction on water products is insufficient, especially within the Ministry's organization, which has been restructured under the Law Code 639. Again, I would like to share with you the fact that the Law on Water Products 1380 cannot be changed in accordance with the conditions of today and the construction of other countries around the world. The answers to the questions we submitted to the ministry in January 2012 and in February 2013 are unfortunately no more than the same hand-me-downs. We asked the Minister: What do you think of private planning? How do you plan to employ more than 15,000 water products engineers and fishing technology? (As in other ministries, there are also cases of hiring staff in accordance with the permits granted by the Finance Ministry in the following period, as far as budget opportunities are concerned. • The year, February 2013 but repeatedly, in 2013, Mr. Minister has explained on TVs, despite the fact that he has received approval from the staff for 6,000 reasons so far, and has not been able to achieve the employment of both food engineers and a water products engineer, and an agricultural engineer, but unfortunately, he has failed. These are the ranks that are free at the Ministry of Agriculture. We will be allowed to use it, and it will be balancedly distributed, providing jobs for our young people. Just a few days ago, 5,000 or 7,000 personnel in other ministries could be immediately carried out, but unfortunately, the Minister of Agriculture does not care much about staff employment, so Turkey's ambition to finish its agriculture, its water products and its fisheries is the final gas. In front of you, I'd like to call upon the Minister once again: please meet with Mr. Finance Minister, who is available in the ministry and is waiting to be employed, as the two ministers of the same government. If you think you can't solve it, then apologize to these young people for the promises you made earlier on the screen. I can't do this job, so I'm handing it over to a friend of mine who's gonna do it, because it's not a joke job. You go out before the elections, you promise the screens that I'll employ as much as this, but you've been in the last two months, and you haven't been able to keep your promise since the beginning of this year. The ministry, on the other hand, is co-organised by the water products and animal health department. It is said by experts who work in the industry that this is not the result of the application and that these two branches are structured separately in other countries, so that this needs to be reconsidered. I'm just reminding you that this needs to be considered. In 2012, there were almost 3,000 recruits, but only 20 fishing technology engineers were able to start by appointing a water products engineer in 77. On the other hand -- of course, both these professions and professional groups are very important -- are 60 percent of the total staff when you look at veterinary employment. I mean, the Minister's veterinary background shouldn't give vets priority at the Ministry. All young people in this country are as important as our vet brothers and sisters, waiting for work. When you look at the distribution in the total number, you can see that its ratio in today's Ministry of Ministers has not changed much. I'd like to remind you that during the last Minister's term, this collapse has increased. Because the accurate assessment of these resources, especially our water resources and the more efficient assessment of fishing production, I believe is closely and directly related to the employment of experts within this ministry. I thank the minister for his work so far, of course, but I would like to remind him for once that his own ministry staff is also deeply disturbed by their biased and particularly regionally-based multilateral assignments. On this occasion, again, we wish the international agreement to be a blessing, and hopefully our country wishes to share with you the wish that the fishing industry would be better after this agreement.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0094par0055	Thank you, Mr. Light. No promises. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 2 - (1) It takes effect in the history of the Law publication. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Tunceli MP Hüseyin Aygün. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0095par0063	Thank you very much. Mr. President, international contracts are often based on the issues where all parties are allied and very quickly discussed. And before I give my opinion on this law concerning fishing, I'm going to talk about Utku Kali, who was acting on public service and statements by some public officials. Because the arrest of Private Utku Kali has deep links to the concept of public service in Sivas, when a patient was arrested on the 151st day of today and was forced to be released from İstanbul GATA (a few hours ago). Now, something very interesting happened, a few days ago, the Chief of Staff, I'm a public servant, I can't speak. Again, the same day, at the same time, another public official, the Iğdir Mufti's Jaferiler and the Kurds in Iğdir, was sent to Ankara by the Governor of Iğdır to confirm a two-page report on ethnic segregation, insulting the beliefs of these sections, declaring them potential threats and terrorists. Now, the Iğdır Mufti and the Governor of Iğdır are both civil servants and the Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff thinks it's incompatible to speak with the concept of public service, but the Mufti and Governor, who are two public officials we've heard on the occasion of this crisis, have no problem preparing and signing official reports that provoke people to one another and sending them to Ankara. So when public service is Hakan Fidan, there's another meaning, a different meaning when Necdet is special, when it's Governor and Mufti in Iğdır. You know, this Hakan Fidan has a position that should not be in front of the public, that shouldn't be a source of much controversy as the head of a spy organization, but at this time, scandals about the gentleman are not off the agenda of major newspapers, websites, from Israel to Washington. I wish this public servant, like Necdet Special, would take care of himself, take care of his work, and not have this kind of crisis. Although, after reading the statements of Mr. President who vouched for him today, as a citizen and MP who advocated that the spy organization should not be removed from the head of the alleged issues in the Israeli and U.S. newspapers, he couldn't figure out how the questions of the ESYM he was subjected to were stolen, but he also supports the fact that Turkey's borders with Syria have been riddled with holes and that al-Qaeda had al-Qaeda (Al-Qaedaeda) as head of an intelligence organization in southern Turkey, and that in the past week, Turkey has failed to be able to track down the problems of the attacker of Al-Qaedaedaqaqaqa (El Qaedaeda). In this regard, I would like to announce before the High Assembly that this much co-signing to Hakan Fidan is in fact a burden on Turkey's security as well. Now, there's a very well-known case that's been opened in France in 1894, but its effects have been going on for over a hundred years, called the Dreyfus case. At that time, Captain Dreyfus was suddenly declared an enemy in a political climate similar to the conditions in Turkey, and was soon arrested and sent to a French-based colonial island. He was on this island for five years. His epaulettes were ripped out, his sword broken. Later, after Emile Zola's famous letter, after the harsh discussion of France, his case was brought back from the island to France and his honor was restored. When Zola, the famous literaryist who led this incident, was buried in France in 1905, the French minister of education, not only remembered him as a strong advocate of the French thought and culture, but also, by explaining how important his letter in the Dreyfus case was, he gave up somewhere. Dreyfus was a captain in the French army and was accused of leaking some classified information to the German military attaché in Paris. However, the hand notes found in the attache did not resemble Dreyfus' handwriting, and in the early days of the trial, sincere experts said that we had some honest reports, such as in Balyoz and Ergenekon. But then the government and powerful circles interfered with the case. With the support of covert witnesses, Dreyfus was then the target of political regression because he was actually Jewish, and was convicted with a false trial. It's a case that actually resembles our digital government terror. Even though it was a hundred years ago, it's very similar to today's cases. As far as the matter is concerned, I've examined the case against Private Utku Kali and the folder on which to judge, and I've seen that it's very similar to the Dreyfus case, along with the Balyoz and Ergenekon. Because he's being tried in this case for leaking information to Private Utku RedHack. In RedHack, they actually publish Internet organisation and real news in Turkey, followed by every citizen with interest. I assume the Sovereign Donation is around. At this time, the scandal published some documents about him as well. Private Utku Kalı was accused of leaking documents concerning the attack on RedHacke in Reyhan. In the 151st day of his imprisonment, last day, Monday, three days ago, there was a trial in Samsun, and we attended that trial. Evacuation has not been issued, he will remain under arrest, and on November 11th, Samsun 3. We'll meet again in the capital punishment. Now, there's something strange about this case. The prosecutor and the ruling AKP media in Turkey are accusing him of leaking classified documents, but what was written in this secret document was written in August of Muammar Güler -- the Minister of Interior himself -- in response to a question proposed in this Parliament -- but it was not very secret; it was also entered into the file. It is a document of compilation of some of the articles of the State of the Interior, says the Minister of the Interior. However, Private Utku is being tried and arrested for leaking classified documents. In those classified documents -- very interesting -- the Reyhan massacre is also revealed by the El Nusra front, where he has committed such massacres, with license plates given to him, as well as by the fact that some vehicles have been marked as concrete. Now, since this case began, we've said that the law may call these documents confidential. In this court, a sea captain may also provide a confidential report on these documents, contrary to Muammar Guler's question motion. But even if it is secretly prepared for a terrorist organization that threatens the national interests of a country, how can it be a crime to raise reports by the gendarme intelligence that threaten the nation with such a great threat to the public, to put an end to its secrecy? I'm one of those who think that the actions of Utku (Utku) are a crime in the form of the penal code, but in fact a hero. And I'm not saying that to impress the court that's going on. In the penal code, military intelligence can also be arranged, but the incident here is that an allied work is carried out in order for a 20-year-old soldier in prison to be lynched, terrorized by various kinds of pressures, perhaps to kill his own life. Private Utku is actually a hero, even if it's a crime for him to reveal the documents that El Nusra would commit a massacre, he's a hero who defends the safety of our nation, and from this stand, we must greet that hero, who has been sentenced to twenty-two years. As for the Enver Pasha of today, I believe, who is not here, let me tell you this: El Nusra brought him and made him neighbor to Turkey. Turkey, please, has directed them to drop bombs on El Nusra positions twice in the last week through the TSK to comfort the West. There were no neighbours Turkey could agree on in the name of this crazy new Ottoman nonsense. Just like Enver Pasha's Panturcism, whatever was in the early 20th century, is doing for the sake of New Ottomanism today. Davutoglu, of course, left no country to go to in the Middle East and no neighbor to greet. To today's Enver Pasha, let us say that Private Utku will be released, and the future will be a hero, but you will be judged for treason. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0096par0073	Thank you, Mr. Aygun. No promises. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Antalya MP Osman Captain. Here you go, Mr. Captain.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0097par0081	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 3 of the bill on ratification of international bilateral agreements 173 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, we see it appropriate to accept this bill, and we support it, because if this agreement is approved, growing activities in fishing and water products in Central Asia and Caucasian countries will be given activity and functionality, so we support it. But instead of dealing with bilateral relations, we also believe that we need to do things that we can do without delaying or delaying time. Dear friends, as we all know, water is life. A little water and a lot of water cause trouble. The lack of water, the lack of rain, leads to famine, so governments have to do big irrigation projects. In the abundance of water, streams, rivers, and floods cause life and loss of goods; in fields, gardens, greenhouses, agricultural products, vegetables, fruits are underwater and rotting, and all the products that don't have the money, which can't even afford the producer's cost are disappearing. From all over Asia Minor, from Malatya, from Mardin, from Erzincan, from Elaziğ, from Adıyaman, Adıyaman, from Urbana, from Hatay, from East Anatolia, from Black Sea to Antalya districts, from Kumluca, from Kasa, to Finike, from Serik They have nothing left in the flood, and they are devastated by their children. My dear friends, not just in the flood, but in the state of agriculture in Turkey, it's actually pathetic. A friend of ours just called from Sivas. I don't know him. We spoke on the phone. Hüseyin Koç in the village of Reshadiye in Gürün district of Sivas. I produced 50 tons of chickpeas, sold them for $140,000 last year. Last year, I sold the nohu for $140,000, sold it for $110,000, and this year I sold it for $70,000. The cost of 50 tons of noohud is 85,000 liras, my friends. For this, I employ 30 seasonal workers from southern Anatolia. It doesn't matter if I quit, it'll be a shame for 30 workers. I'm creating a job, he says. This is what happens in agriculture all over Turkey. Dear friends, abundant rains cause natural beauty in Antalya, and natural disasters. The rains of Antalya are 1,067 kilograms per square meter, depending on the long-term average. This is four to five times higher than the European Union average, and Turkey is about two times higher than its average. Although Antalya is a province that gives the government more than it gets from the state, the state is well aware of its collection of taxes, but in its spending money to prevent natural disasters, it either doesn't know or is stingy. The state must also implement a project such as Gap, KOP, DAP, Antalya. A project called the Antalya Project or BAP (West Mediterranean) such as the AP in Antalya... In this project, floods from the Toros must be neutralized. In Antalya, there are some projects that have been completed and continue to exist. Our public officials, from regional manager to vice principals, are working there day and night until all public officials. We celebrate them and hope for their continued success. But it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough! Because why? There's delays, years of delay. Antalya means small Turkey. Antalya is the capital of tourism, the capital of agriculture, and almost the capital of natural disasters in recent years, my friends. On 21/10/2009, I spoke from this bench again outside the agenda of the flood in Kumluca. I said there: 2,000 acres of greenhouses in the cradled village and in Beskonak have been flooded by 1 meter of water, and the vegetables that have not been paid have been left to rot. This flood is a natural disaster, but those who haven't built the Cradle pond for seven years are also a political disaster. And three years after my speech, in January 2013, it's the same again. I talked about it, and now I'm saying it's the same. Antalya region of natural disasters...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0098par0089	It's being done, Osman Abi, don't do this!
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0097par0090	Congressman... as long as we have friends like this, nothing is done to Antalya, nothing is done to Turkey. Guys, learn to listen first! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Antalya is to be declared a natural disaster zone -- not the interior of Antalia -- and it must be protected. The fact that the Little Aksu Dam -- are you listening to me -- Mr. Deputy -- is that Aksu Tea has just begun to reform the stream, we appreciate it, we celebrate it, but we want to say it's late. Had it not been for the delay, six of our people in Gebiz would not have died had it not been for these things in the arms of Aksu Tea. But we say it's late, we say it should've been finished in the old days. It is also pleasing to have 90 to 95% of the reforming work of Taurus Creek done and to have been reformed. The Alakır Dam in Kumluca is essentially a dam for the purpose of preventing floods. The final end of the year will be finished. A number of reforms can't be launched since there is no work in Kumluca (Kumluca) district's water floods. That's because the city needs to deliver the location. Now, my friends, the municipality is the municipality of the government party. With that municipality there, the government, we think the public officials might be able to deal with these projects as soon as possible. The Kazay Dam in Finland will be held in 2004. This has to be done without delay. Again, permanent measures must be taken to rehabilitate riverbeds in the district of Demre, especially Kash, Town and Montenegro, preventing the village's harm. Again, it is a pleasure to finish the reform of Watermelon Tea in Manavgat. This Naras Dam will be finished by the end of this year. If finished, important steps will be taken to protect Manavgat from the flood. Now, here, again, in Manavgat, it is also necessary to make the deadlines. Gökçes Dam continues in Gazipaşa. These are important things, but the measures that need to be taken -- the fact that the creek beds have been opened to the dwelling in all Turkey -- this is not only in Antalya, but in the sand and gravel pits -- are also inviting floods in a way. Dear friends, 1) Before the damage is done, the measures must be taken beforehand. 2) The work of reforming rivers, streams, tea beds in all the districts of Antalya must be speeded up. 3) The dams and ponds that are being built must first be finished and similar measures must be taken. TARSIM (TARSIM) should be widely insured by all farmers. Sir, we ask the government for protection from natural disasters and for the protection of God. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0099par0105	Thank you, Mr. Captain. No promises. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes for an electronic vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the Central Asia and Caucasus Regional Fisheries and Water Products Commission Agreement Approved as an open vote: [[x]] Mine Lök White Ismail Kashdemir So the bill is accepted and legalized. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, confirming the Co-ordination Committee Agreement in the Framework of the Defence Ministers of Southeast Europe. 4- Southeastern European Defence Ministers' Framework (S. Number: 322) [[x]] The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 322 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Haluk Ahmet Silver will speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0100par0130	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group following the bill on ratification of international agreement 322 rows. I salute you all. The beginning of the 20th century will become history as a time of extraordinary changes in our world. At the end of the 20th century, the world's bloc has changed, and there have been developments in the end of the multipolar era. Over time, there have been new developments in the world in the distribution of power weights between geography. In fact, at the beginning of the last century, some countries were expected to receive more and more shares in the world's trade, and this process would continue. The same image has been seen in national revenues in the last ten years with even more clarity. In particular, the number of national revenues calculated by buying parity, which gives us healthier information, told us that a new era would begin in the world. Of course, the purchase parity computing methods have also been changed by developed countries. So these developments in different parts of the world's geography have been a harbinger of the new balances of the new age because the existence of development and international new power centers in our world will not only be in the economy, but will reflect itself in political areas, will show itself in defence balances. There is a point to briefly mention that the main issue under the economic crisis and economic sustainability problems that developed countries still cannot emerge from is the emergence of these new power distributions and forcing the world to change. What will these changes be and what should they be? The most important thing to discuss is what changes in the world are going to happen and what should happen. First of all, global imbalances with depth and depth must be overcome in peace. If that doesn't happen, the cost of our world, humanity, and other living life is too great for me to express here. Without peace, the conditions in which they await the world and are preparing for the present process are worse than we want to talk about here if there is no peace. Our hope is that instead of facing the war consequences of the 20th century, the work continues to resolve problems peacefully, because weapons have developed horribly with technology. Problems should no longer be solved by weapons in modern times. You have to work for it, and you have to work with it. (x) 322 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Dear friends, extraordinary growth in a particular part of the world's geography has contributed greatly to the world's economic and commercial environment, and has led to radical changes in some of the global plans that are even intended to be implemented, radical changes in the world's major global plans. Of course, the world's superpowers will be the great forces that change their plans or are forced to change. As positive as change is, they will be negatively affected by the curvature of hegemonia fields, the great powers of the world. However, in countries that can thrive in conjunctural environments such as ours -- the failure of governments and the wrong look -- structures based on production have been developed based on conjunctural structures. It will be vulnerable to the economic and political scale of developments, such as ours. Here's the most important example of this, as the free trade agreement of the EU and the United States has narrowed down the dollar emissions of the FED. So, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement -- which is the issue of integration in Europe and the United States as a result of certain constraints in the world -- and the economic development environment that comes with it has led us from the crisis in the United States to different policies, and by these policies, the tightening of emissions will shake countries like us. Look, what will happen to us as a result of the wrong policies, even the risks for governments will come to light. As seen under new conditions, it is attempting to expand the trade of the EU and the United States. NATO is trying to boost its intervention in both the Mediterranean and the Middle East. See, there are significant changes in countries on the coast of the Pacific, both on the Atlantic coast and on the Mediterranean. On one hand, free trade agreements are being held, while on the other, international interventions are on the agenda for the restructuring of the political structures of the countries. In addition to positive developments in these developments, of course, protestive behaviors are very common. Where? In Mediterranean countries. Where? In many parts of the Middle East. By whom? By the developed and confused countries like us.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0101par0136	We're not a confused country.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0100par0137	I am correcting it by the governments of confused countries.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0101par0138	Who's the confused country?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0100par0139	By confused governments. The fact is, the world is rapidly developing international regional integration, while preparing for possible chaos with new defence agreements. From here, there will be international economic regional integration and new defence agreements that balance each other in the future world. The AKP government has finally been able to focus on something other than interfering with the internal affairs of unstable Middle Eastern countries, which have the potential to destabilize us, and the dream of integration with them, the pursuit of carrots, with this issue, and occasionally good things happen. We told the government at every turn: if you increase your relations with the unstable region, instability will infect Turkey as well as a disease. We said, "No integration with the unsustainable zone." You're looking for integration. So, what has become of the reputation of the Middle East as a result of integration, you see it very well. In this sense, the regions in our northern, western and eastern regions, which seem to be partially stable, are best suited for economic integration. The Balkan countries, which have experienced a variety of instability and turmoil in the past due to their complex ethnic structures, now want to be remembered as Southeast European countries for the sake of forgetting this call. For us, this geography is as important in historical, cultural and human relations as it is in geopolitical and economic terms. At the same time, the Balkans are of great importance to Turkish history, with its special importance and potential to the future in the context of our regional integration goals. In particular, after Yugoslavia's disintegration, all balances in the Balkans differed, resulting in instability in the process reaching dangerous levels of international peace. There was great human suffering in the Balkans, and the painful ethnic cleansing movement was on the agenda. Some 60 years after these sufferings and international military interventions had been signed in 1934, the Organization for the Co-operation of Southeast Europe was established in 1996, some 60 years after the International Conjunctory of World War II lost its validity in the international conjunctive created by World War II. The main feature of this organisation is that it is the only collaborative platform from the Balkans. It consists of 12 members -- Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Turkey and Greece. The organisation aims to strengthen its co-operation between countries in the region, in political, economic and security, and to establish a peace environment in the Balkans where human suffering will never happen again. On behalf of my party, I will try to contribute to the successful process of co-operation as an active member of the Parliamentary Assembly of this organisation's Turkish Group in the coming period. Dear lawmakers, today parliamentary diplomacy has become as important as classical diplomacy, which is at least carried out by diplomats. A Parliamentary Assembly, which produces information and policy, decides on the well-being of the region, prepares reports, performs international labour troops, not only serves the peace climate in the region, but can also contribute to the government's foreign policy in a positive way, if the institutions and people who govern foreign policy want to benefit from these sources of information that will emerge. Unfortunately, the State Department of the AKP government continues to ignore our warnings about foreign policy. This deaf attitude and lack of analysis in foreign policy have made the country today troubled by the idea of foreign policy, rather than simply trying to think about the results of the world's developments. Let's not just think about concepts anymore, but see what improvements are the result of what big world issue. We may have valuable contributions to the State Department, and if they want to listen to us, we can't even see the Secretary of Foreign Affairs here -- and if they want to evaluate our views, they'll always be welcome. Dear lawmakers, as you know, Balkan geography is both very special and very beautiful geography for us. There are countries in this geography that have historically very strong ties to Turkey. Our languages are similar to some; there are thousands of Turkish words in Serbian, Bulgarian, Albanian and Bosnian. When you look for historical denominators, we will face extreme wealth. Consolidating mutual trust and stability in the Balkans and establishing neighbourly relations will be possible only through an effective international organisation, including Turkey. So the existing organisations must be activated immediately and work seriously. The integration of countries in this region with institutions such as the European Union and NATO is important for strengthening democratic governance in these countries. Turkey must lead the process regardless of disturbing imperial goals and pursue a more regular integration target with the countries of the region. In fact, I'd say it's too late for that process. The importance of international regional integration has been repeated on this bench. Here are the structures set up by the organization we're interviewing today, one of the most concrete examples. It is vital that lasting peace is both in terms of the facility and in terms of support for the international new balances, boosting defence labour units and pave the way for economic integration processes. As we said at the beginning of my talk, it is undisputed that the developed countries have begun to seek comprehensive integration and co-operation opportunities around Southeast Europe and the Black Sea countries in order to stabilize the countries of Southeast Asia and especially China and India. This search has also been expressed in various thoughts. In developed countries, the trend is that the Western world has increased its need for new conditions, new international integrations that can create large scale economies. In this scale economy race, we have to first develop our best interests with the countries closest to us, without time or delay. Who are the nearest countries? 1) is a Balkan country. 2) is a land in the north of the Black Sea. 3) is the Caucasus. 4) is Central Asia. We regressed in Central Asia. In Caucasus, relationships are unclear. Russia and I are insecure. Now we're trying to crawl, we're trying to do it; it's just coming up on our agenda, and we're trying to improve cooperation with the Balkans in the 10th year of the government. Where did relationships develop? It's developed in the Middle East. Advanced how? It's better not to talk, it's better not to think. The relationships you've developed are in Iraq, the relationships you've developed are in Syria. They don't even take you for a castle in Syria, and they don't even see you in Geneva right now. The world of the future will allow regional integration and new regional defence agreements to allow developing countries like us to offer greater and greater possibilities of action. Time must be used wisely and without delay. In a world of international regional structures, the impact and movement of developing countries in inter-regional relations will be larger, wider, and more effective, friends. Time must be used wisely and without delay. The nearest stable countries should be regarded as our close collaborators and should be worked in that direction. Thank you for listening, my regards to the High Council, thank you all.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0102par0153	Thank you, Mr. Silver. There's no need to make a statement on behalf of his people. Mr. Reminder, you've entered the system in the QA, do you have any questions? Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0103par0157	Sir, as we've been reading in the papers over the past month -- and we've had relations with friends over this story -- there's been an investigation into 20 of our friends working at TRT. With this investigation, their recruitment is delayed, and there's a problem with their job security. Unable to make the appointment. And on Friday morning, they called for a verbal plea. I'd like to know if Mr. Minister has any protection for these friends about whether or not he's going to be interfered with due to correspondence on social media.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0102par0158	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0104par0160	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, there are temporary workers working in public, and I asked them last year -- there are temps working in many areas in the state railways, sugar factories, do you think you can solve the staff problem? And then there's the subcontractors. I'm afraid there's been a study of these recently increased subcontractors? Everyone expects positive news on this matter. That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0105par0164	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0106par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we have a business called Fenish aluminum in Gebze. Fenish Aluminum is one of the largest companies in Turkey's sector in the 1970s, in the 80s. In 2001, he owed some money to international capital and banks for his economic crisis. As a result of this debt, at the moment, the employer's economic difficulties have put an end to the work of 637 workers and officers who work there and have been kicked out. Do you, as the Labour Minister, intend to make an attempt to resolve this matter with both the employer and union officials in order to address the difficulties of our workers and officers?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0107par0170	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0108par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a very important victim population known in public as those who live in retirement. On each platform, as the elections approach, they reach you from time to time, in Ankara, İzmir, at different times. Indeed, these people are being punished in a very unfair way, very contrary to international law, working life. Look, he's 50 years old, out of work, out of retirement, but he can't get a job because he's over 50, so unfortunately he can't get a pension. Do you, as a government, as a human being, send his son to school - do you intend to cure the suffering of these people? Can't you see there's been an injustice here? We're bringing it up here, and we're going to keep bringing it up. There's an obvious injustice here. Please, hear these people's voices, their suffering.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0109par0178	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0110par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, he said a lot yesterday, and then we'll talk a lot under the House roof. We lost a worker in the fire in Soma. Last year, when there were three fires in a row, I passed it on to you with a written question motion. In the last ten years, you've answered in writing that there have been numerous audits and 66 discrepancies detected, once closed for a month in 2011, and then opened. Both Manisa public and the public in Turkey say that despite the proximity and shortcomings of the owners of this company to your party, you have been held open with political pressure in the history of your business safety inspectors' reports. Are you aware of this kind of pressure? How do you explain the fact that this mine is still active and is taking life? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0111par0183	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0112par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, there's a mine in Artvin that needs to be removed from Cerattepe. I've drawn up the transcripts of the speech you made in the House in 2001 regarding this mine. That speech, to me, is a great speech. Today, the CED report on this mine requires that more than 50,000 trees be cut down and mined. In the 2001 speech you gave, I have written that a mining process like this would be a major murder, that would bring the end of Artvin. Do you share the content of this 2001 conversation today? All the Artvins are curious. Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0113par0188	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0114par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. In the two years we've been in parliament, and in the previous process, with the work of the Chamber of Dentists and the Association of Dentists, there have been contacts with your Ministry and the Ministry of Health to ensure that the contract for public service of dentists who work at the practice can be made, but it has not been done. Despite your approval, the health minister's approval was also received, but the purchase of services from these clinics still hasn't come to life. Do you plan to do a study at this time? Our fellow dentists have been seriously victimized. In that sense, they want you to say something here again, they want your opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0115par0193	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0116par0195	Mr. Secretary, in a speech last year on this bench, on the council bench, after the mining accident in Kozlu, you stated on the bench that you were taking the gallery opening job in the mines, as it was in the old-fashioned way, from subcontractors who were experienced as well as gallery opening workers, to be able to grow up in the old-fashioned way. In my speech on that date, I said, "You will speak of your good wishes, your wishes, as usual, from these platforms, but in the end, nothing will change." Despite a year passed, such a bill did not take part in any study, as you did not bring it to Parliament, and the mining accidents in Turkey rank as the first in Europe, perhaps the second in the world, as in other business accidents. In this regard, are you preparing any legal proposals to prevent mining accidents, to prevent accidents in the mines, or...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0117par0199	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0118par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after the release of the Metropolitan City City Law, you know, we now have employees who are under contract worker status in the temporary position of working under the special administration of the province in our provinces in the coming period. They're asking us, what's going to happen to us? Are we going to be staffed in public affairs? And there are also subcontractors at subcontractor status, contract status, and temporary labor status in the municipalities of our major cities. Does your government intend to conduct any study of these? Will the Constitution grant public work rights to guarantee the rights to work of these workers, or will the AKP continue to use a classic form of labour exploitation and subcontractorship?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0117par0203	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0119par0205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, the question about employees at TRT is, of course, that we've been able to understand both the media and the question here. I don't give you the possibility of an illegal procedure in the TRT, I want to point out that there's been a legal assessment, but if that's the responsibility you're giving us as Department of Labor, I'd like to talk to the authorities personally and say that if there really is an illegal procedure here, I'm going to follow it. Second, an arrangement regarding temporary workers is currently out of the question for those working under six months - five months and twenty-nine days. As you know, in the past few months, six months and six years, the process of hiring employees who were working on it had been completed, about 227,000 workers had been recruited. Therefore, I would like to point out that there is no work at this time regarding the recruitment of workers working under six months. Believe me, we've been working on subcontractors for a long time. I'm aware that all of our fellow lawmakers have told them about the problems of the workers working for the sub-employee and are looking for a solution. In every city we go to, we meet with workers who work with sub-employees, trade unions, workers, employers, and public contractors, and the issue of solutions actually involves a lot of problems. I mean, we're having a hard time dealing with the fact that a decision you've made against the working people, because a decision you've made has a table against the employer's part, but I'd like to emphasize one fact here in front of you: of course, the current subcontractorization has become the exploitation of labor, which has no sustainability. I'm convinced they'll come together tomorrow to find a solution, and we've given them a deadline until November 10th, and I believe they'll come to a compromise point. In this year of legislation, before we go to the elections, I would like to say once again that we are trying to solve the problem with these sub-employees. As a result of the bankruptcy of a factory in Gebze, we had the opportunity to talk to these workers personally, to meet with the relevant union, and to meet the employer. In these talks, of course, if there's been bankruptcy, you can all imagine how narrow our range of movement has become. We've had those attempts to see if we can provide the workers within the scope of the short work grant, but unfortunately, the position of the business, the position of the workplace, and that kind of opportunity is far from available to our workers. Therefore, we express in particular: One of our employees, who works in the business you refer to, says that he has 17 days left to retire, another worker, a few months to retire. I mean, can you imagine, in 17 days, he'll get his compensation, maybe have a home, maybe take care of his troubles. At the exact moment of the capture of a process he's been waiting for for for 30 years, I'm guessing we're all seeing and feeling what this worker is facing as a result of the employer's bankruptcy. What could be the solution to this? After 30 years of keeping the worker waiting, we're bringing a study to the parties in order to eliminate the loss of our worker, even if we deposit his compensation on his personal account as a result of his monthly work, even if the business goes bankrupt. I find it hard to understand why our unions don't take kindly to a sense of compensation that should come to the account every month, instead of being so clear and transparent, instead of severance pay, and not wait for years, why our politicians don't take kindly to it, and I find it hard to understand that. Thirty years later, we're all aching in our hearts to see our 17-day worker fail to receive his 30-year savings. The solution is very clear: that each month, however he gets paid at the end of his work, his personal account is paid for. Otherwise, it is not possible to prevent the exploitation of workers and labor here. And I'm bringing this to your attention. The regulation on pensioners is a provision that was adopted by the trilateral coalition in 1999 by Law 4447. The issue was taken to the Constitutional Court, where it was stated that an injustice had been done to the retirement age, which was expressed today. The Constitutional Court has decided that there is no injustice in the law and in the law, by not canceling the law. I pray for God's mercy to our citizen who died in the fire in Soma. Right after the incident, our investigators were there, and as a result of a collapse in the vents, a fire in the dust, a citizen, a worker, unfortunately lost his life. In April, the inspection on this business was fined for closing, and many administrative fines have been applied for over 10,000 liras, or more than 10 billion. After this last shutdown, the apparent shortcomings returned to business operations, but the accident here is an accident caused by a collapse in the ventilation. Technically, we're still working on it. According to preliminary findings, the inspection reports showed that there was a flaw in the business, as well as preliminary information. As you can certainly say, there's nothing acceptable about pressure or some sort of advocacy about a matter that concerns so much in human life. As you know, in the matter of a much healthier level of working life, we have passed the Law on Business Health and Safety in Parliament together. The important parts of this will take effect as of January 1, 2014. The goal here is that in a healthy environment, our workers, our workers, continue to work. Who will bring about another arrangement, another arrangement, as expressed here, to the outside world? We don't need to arrange for subcontractors or employers, but hopefully we'll be able to enter the law as long as all problems are resolved when the law is enforced. It's usually used, sir, in the world, in business accidents, we're the 2nd. There are random assessments, which are not true, my friends. In 2002 there were 16 deaths in 100,000 workers, while in 2012 there were 8 in 100,000 workers, while in 2013 there are now 6 fatal accidents in 100,000 workers. Turkey is rapidly reducing business accidents and deaths here, so let me put it this way. Artvin, in Artvin, you know, is right to call him Artvin the Green. It's a city where I was born, a city where I spent my childhood. A mining search at the top of Artvin, which, of course, is true that we have the mines that do not destroy the technique and the environment, but if there is a destruction, which my congressman reminded me of in the past years in Artvin, I'm behind that conversation, and I'm behind it. As far as free dentists are concerned, we've completed our work on public service purchases as the Social Security Agency, but you'll appreciate that our assessment continues between institutions, and we've failed to reach that conclusion. We've recruited 100,000 members of the city's private administration contractors. We've all done it together in the High Council again. Those who were not included in these 100,000 contracts, of course, would not be included. There are many different statuses in our staff regime, and we're trying to reduce them even further. I would say that the purpose of the changes to the staff and some of the status changes in the past years is to make this fragmented status a little bit more tidy. I'm guessing we've answered all the questions. I'd like to thank all the friends who ask all the questions.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0120par0218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0121par0219	You haven't answered my question, there's still time. You've got to...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0120par0221	I guess the system shut down when you said thank you. Perhaps you'll answer in writing later. The negotiations on the entire bill are now complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0122par0224	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0120par0225	I'll call the number of decisions, I'll do them with the electronics. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision has a sufficient number; it is agreed to be passed on to the provisions of the bill. COORDINION COMMITATION CONTINUES IN THE COORDINATION COORDINATION COMMITATION OF THE SUNDOLAL SURVIVES OF DIVATION PROGRAMS OF THE BLOOD TO FIND THE SLEEPING Article 1-1 (1) was approved on October 21, 2009 in the Southeastern European Defence Ministerial Framework in Sofia. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on article 1 Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0123par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good evening. First of all, I'd like to share with you something I promised to say here. In our work today, our Republican People's Party Afyonkarahisar MP, Mr. Ahmet Toptaş, offered to investigate the situation of our 25 children who were killed in the explosion in Afyonkarahisar, to be investigated at the point of neglect or assassination, and to form a parliamentary research committee. It was accepted after the talks here, but I would like to say that on 8 October 2013, I attended the court in Eskişehir, where the situation of the martyr mothers, the martyr fathers, was a real heartbreaking and heartbreaking pain, and in the speech made by senior Sergeant Murat Döker, who was senior in Burıkkale. ▪
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0120par0238	Mr. Canalioğlu, you said the offer was accepted. But it wasn't, please correct the records.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0123par0239	It wasn't, yes, I'd say thank you if it was. It wasn't. From Kırıkkale, the wife of Senior Sergeant Murat Düğer. She said to the court council: "I lost my father when I was three years old. I'm 26 now -- or 27, if memory serves me right -- and I'm unique... Raise my kids without a father? Aren't you human? Aren't we human? Is this the way we're treated? Please put it out loud and clear. It is truly heartbreaking to cry. Dear MPs, yes, they're people, and we're people. The children they lost are our children, our people. So we'd want it here, and we'd wait for a commission to investigate it, and at least let the martyr families, the martyr relatives, die in a sad place, and they'd learn the outcome clearly and clearly. But unfortunately, we haven't made that decision here. My dear friends, members of lawmakers, when we looked at this point, we haven't yet built a monument where they were martyrs, and we haven't made a monument for our martyrs since September 5, 2012. Is it so hard to make this monument, to give them this martyrdom in the place of the explosion? Why did we not wait a year and at least help the hearts of those people to at least relax when we were going to build monuments in one night as descendants of our army that landed the Navy on Halic? We hope that after the talks here, the message has been received and that you can act quickly and give the answers that our fallen families have been waiting for as power. After this entry, my dear friends, the East Black Sea District has become an area of intensive unemployment in recent years, and in parallel with that, migrating. Nuts and tea -- the national products of the region -- are not pleasing to producers. Agricultural areas are shrinking, nut areas are being ripped out and replaced by public housing. Again, the decline of animalism in the East Black Sea and the Black Sea requires that investments in the region be made, after the quotas of tobacco are completed, the end of production, the closure of TECEL, the failure of the SMEs to achieve sufficient capacity, and the failure of organised industrial areas to work at full capacity. These new investments must be planned to increase production and foreign trade volume in order to achieve the estimated $500 billion for 2013. Dear lawmakers, we are in favor of balanced development and balanced investments in all regions. But in this case the Black Sea Region has come, unfortunately, there must be investments that will contribute a little bit more and more quickly to the Black Sea Region, which will contribute to employment. Unfortunately, the railway, a very important issue that lies in the Black Sea, remains in silence by the government, not yet clear what it is. Again, we know that Tripoli is very important, and every chance our Minister and the Minister of Tripoli say so, and the MPs also say so, but the southern freeway, which we can't take a step forward, will give us a very important momentum in the south of our southern environmental city, Tripoli, which is the capital city. Our esteemed lawmakers, as it is known, have a very important strategic advantage over the Caucasus, Central Asia and the Middle East region, as well as the Russian Federation, are unable to take advantage of these potentials at the level and sustainablely due to the lack of investments in infrastructure needed for foreign trade. Opportunities from the historic Silk Road mission, Tripoli and the East Black Sea Region, which serve as bridges between Asia and Europe, offering the function of being the transfer centre of the Asia-European and Middle East triangle, are not given to the economy today due to lack of modern infrastructure and facilities. Our province of Tripoli needs to be attractive to the province and to the region that is in logistics, to stimulate its potential for experience and knowledge and geographical proximity. In this case, a logistical centre in the province of Tripoli is also able to turn the province of Tripoli into a supply and transfer centre for the Middle East and Asian geography. We said it was necessary for all countries of the world now with logistic potential to become the modern logistical center of the Sürmene County Pineburnu shipyard, which is now being launched in order to make our region of East Black Sea logistically attractive and bring its logistic potential to the economy. However, during our talks with our Minister, he has said that this area has been moved at the point of restructuring the area that has been waiting for three years, where 60 trillions have been waiting, and 60 trillions, 508 million, 69,000 euros have been spent. But is it enough? It's not. Will it be long before at least our Minister of Customs and Trade... the logistical center between the Of and Ovit-Hedge can be activated immediately? At that point, we lack information, and they can answer the question we wrote. In that regard, the effort must be made at the point where this should be done quickly, but at this point it is necessary to build a logistical center for a particular area in the Banmene Pineburnu area until this is done. When they build the shipyard, we'll find work for 5,000 people. They said they'd find work, but unfortunately they haven't found work for 5,000 people, not three years. The company that's going to build the shipyard says that we start the shipyard here in three years, but here we're only going to give 200 jobs, and we're going to give it gradually. But I'd like to say once again that the Tripoli people are going to be asking for it in the chest. My dear friends, Tripoli and the region, of course, are connected to all sides as Avrusian, but it will also make logistical importance to Tripoli to make roads from Samsun to Batum, and from Tripoli to Central Anatolia, East Anatolia. We expect this from the government, and we're going to follow it. They told me at a meeting in the organised industrial district of Tripoli: "Why can't you get together?" Mr. Minister, please bring us together. We are ready to do our part in the development of Tripoli, but unfortunately, you're not listening to us at a point where the opposition can only speak and won't get anything from what we're talking about, and in this conversation you're having here, two of your deputies have gone into very deep issues, including our Minister. Dear Minister, I hope and expect that this bilateral speech will be at the point of discussion of services to the development of Tripoli, the meeting you had with Mr Seymenoglu. I'll tell you once again that we're on your side for the development of Tripoli, but let's speed it up. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0124par0253	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. No word on the subject. Moving on to QA. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0125par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there's a ceramic factory in the district of Leadlu in Çankırı Province. It's a factory built with high hopes, high hopes in the region. However, this factory has damage to the region due to both management and capital shortages. At the moment, 800-900 of our workers have been laid off. They both spent the holidays out of work. Two or three months' worth of cash is in there right now. They're not getting their compensation. Again, a 475 of our workers are currently unemployed, their future is uncertain, with Aytac declared bankruptcy and resold in Çankırı district of Çerkeş, next to him. You know, it's a school year. These workers owe an enormous debt to the tradesman. The tradesman couldn't turn himself around. School...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0126par0261	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0127par0263	Mr. President, we have citizens whose rights to employees are restricted to 4/C status due to the privatisation of institutions, although many of them are staffed in various public institutions with the KPSS exam. In their positions, even though they do the same work as everyone else in the institutions, the 4/C) people who don't have the same rights are wondering if there's anything for us at every package opening. Do you have any work on the removal of these victims? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0126par0265	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0128par0267	Mr. Secretary, even though there were only 50 seconds left, you didn't answer my question. Let me repeat my question one more time. When eight people died in Kozlu last year, you made a request from this assembly bench and stated that by drafting a bill, our miners would be free of subcontractorship, especially from subcontractors who worked in the gallery opening. Since I didn't think you'd bring that bill, as usual, I offered you a law on the removal of subcontractorism in the gallery opening of the mines. I hope, as the AKP Group, you'll consider this proposal of law, and I think you'll stand by the promise you made. Again, when you look at job safety and employee safety, we see that no decision has been carried out that has been made, that has been returned with a court order, that has tried to be returned, that has decided to return the court. Which, despite all the years you've been saying that you've been making laws in favor of the workers here, has yet to be secured. When is it a law against workers...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0126par0270	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0129par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I was really pleased to hear what you said about Artvin, about Cerattepe. We also know that the thermal plant was canceled by you in the Koz tree of your previous constituency in Bursa, but the work on how to build this plant again these days and the removal of 23 villages is being carried out quickly. Due to the election, the contractor postponed the work to June 2014. I'd like your opinion on that, too. Because in 2006, you canceled the thermal power plant in this area where these thermal plants would be built. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0130par0275	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0131par0277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when you answered my question earlier, you said that there was no such thing as a company that was on the side, that there was no such thing in business security. You will be present at the Prime Minister's rally, at the workers' meeting, and you will receive another daily salary. How can you approach the owner of the mining company who greets the Prime Minister in a military order and then puts them in a rally area, and then says, "The Prime Minister is here?" That's what I want to ask you. And once again, I stress that this is the company where explosions, neglects are ignored.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0130par0279	Thank you, Mr. Special. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's start at the end: I find it hard to understand if it's wrong for a private owner to be part of a political party. So a citizen can't be a member of a political party? Can't a citizen let his worker go and pay for a political party if he's willing to do it? This also applies to the Republican People's Party, and it applies to the EC PARTY. So you're talking about public opinion, I don't get it.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0133par0283	I say give up, I say give up!
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0284	What do you call it?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0133par0285	I give up! I give up!
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0286	So citizens can't be members of the political party, they can't be involved in the political party?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0133par0287	I give up, I give up!
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0288	Excuse me. I know neither the owner nor the owner of the business in Soma, as you speak. But you're saying that the owner of a private company in Soma is not a member of the political party, he can't be a participant in the party.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0133par0290	That's not what I'm saying.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0291	So, let's put a political ban on 1 million 529 grand into our business, no one messes with politics. What kind of logic is that?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0133par0292	He's taking the workers to a mass rally.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0293	I've just responded to you, and I said, "This place is closed in April during the final inspection, and the missing are in 5 articles." These are complete and open. Yesterday's accident resulted in the death of one of our workers as a result of a collapse in the ventilation system. We said if there's a flaw in operating here, there'll be proper procedures. The other issue is the situation in the Keles Koz tree: When attempts were made to build a thermal plant here in the past years, the public had an intense reaction. So I went and visited him then as an MP in Bursa, and he met with citizens in person -- a region where fruits and vegetables were heavily grown -- and he had a will to do it in Harmanalan, not in Koz tree. Years have passed, and as of today, there are no problems with the construction of the thermal plant in the local population. I'm going to Bursa myself, and I'll make it clear to you. Of course, as our concerned congresswoman friends, you know the developments there are much more recent, but I would like to personally point out that as a friend of yours who's been interested in the past years, who's taken a stand for the citizens there, who's tried to come up with alternative solutions to our country's economy, there's no need for us now. Another issue: we have 23,000 employees with 4/C status as a result of privatisation. During this collective contract process, you asked us if there was anything wrong with it. We've made some serious improvements, and there's been a 40 percent improvement in their wages. So right now, an elementary school graduate will receive $1.033, with an increase of about 40 per cent as of January 1st. In addition, one of our university graduate brothers receives $1,250,000, which will increase his salary by about 40 percent, and $1,750,000... There will also be family and child support.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0134par0297	How much do the public officials who do the same work get paid, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0298	Now, I've explained before that we're working on status. So the question of whether or not 4/C status will turn into contract status is on our Ministry's agenda. I don't want to make an additional statement about this, and I don't want it to be a subject of new speculative assessments, but is there anything? We said we'd bring an arrangement on this. The Occupational Health Safety Act considers neither sub-employee nor primary employer. It's an obligation to produce in a healthy environment. See this change, the Health and Safety Act is not a valid law for the main employer, but a valid law for all employers. When you take that into consideration, what's really important is solving the problem, and here, we've passed an arrangement that solves the problem through the House.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0134par0300	You've fooled the workers again.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0132par0301	Judicial decisions on subcontractors...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0135par0302	We're out of time, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0136par0304	Mr. President, it's not my turn.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0135par0305	Mr. Agha, if you follow carefully, five minutes of ten minutes of time have been given, five minutes of the Minister's.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0136par0306	I've been in there before. I think it's a mistake for her.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0135par0307	There was no mistake, sir. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Manisa MP Sakine Öz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0137par0314	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd Amendment of the Dair Legislature that the Co-ordination Committee Agreement is appropriate in the Southeastern European Defence Minister's Frame of 322 rows. I salute you all. Congressmans, we're discussing an international arrangement. This bill includes the adoption of the agreement signed by 11 Southeast European countries, including our country, on October 21, 2009. According to the government, this agreement aims to determine the accession of the Southeast European defence ministers process and observer status. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a Manisa MP like my friend, I want to tell you that it is more important for me today to share the mine fire from the nation's bench than to ask the responsible for all the international issues. Soma County, as you all know, is one of the major coal basins of our region and our country. Soma is the quarry of labor. The extracted lignite coal is crucial to the supply of our country's energy needs. In the process of extracting this coal from the past and present, and being processed and converted into electrical energy, our citizens from Soma will work here and from other parts of our homeland. In short, Soma is the fortress of labor and energy. So that the people of Soma, which came out of Soma, and came from Kütahiah, and Balıkesir, and all the way from Zonguldak, have taken Soma, and settled in Soma. With Soma's importance to the human and energy source apparent, our county is wrestling in the face of subcontractoric problems, despite all its importance. Members of parliament, on Sunday (October 20th) four days ago, all the problems caused by the new job murder at the criminal mine remain alive in Soma. Our hearts are burned again in the coal mine disaster in Darkale, Soma district of our Manisa. In the last fire in the mining mining business, where AKP was protected, our miner Jonah Power lost his life, and 27 of our workers were face to face with death. I offer my condolences to our worker, Jonah, and to God's mercy, and to his relatives, and to his fellow workers. We've repeatedly warned our government about the problems of this mine's electrical system, we've asked for a healthy inspection of this mine, but the solution has always been postponed. This Sunday morning, the smoke from the electrical ignition caused our workers to face death because the air vents were blocked. Our worker, who can't see the government with him, spends every day in danger of death. Let's be clear: our soma miner must be exhausted. Do you ever wonder how we'd be able to get rid of that fire today if our fire victims weren't experienced, if they hadn't barricaded themselves with their own means, if they couldn't get out? During the AKP period -- the government, abandoned control -- may have been participant at AKP's Manisa rallies -- working parties, but we don't know if those workers were participants -- our workers were officially left to die in the state-corporated partnership when the mining accident occurred. The soul of the worker was despised, and the voice of the man who spoke was taken away from him. After the accidents since 2005, the mine, which constantly lays its back on forces close to the government and on a AKP MP, must be closed in the inspector's reports in 2011. For some reason, it continued its work five days after it was said. The mining company has doubled its profits with minor fines, hosting business killings. This pit of death has not been inspected enough, despite all the warnings we have made from the Parliamentary platform, despite the rebellion of our brothers, whose bread is earned by the sweat of their hands. In this January, which is a grave to seven of our workers, more than 60 have been detected, despite the inspector's reports, no concrete measures have been taken. Those who object to this unsecured environment, which has deterred the union worker, have been laid off. We're dealing with a very painful picture, lawmakers. Although he did not want to work in the mine, Jonah went down to the furnace to take care of his six children. In this mine, there were brothers and sisters who died at different times. After burying his brother, his younger brother and father buried the funeral of our brothers who began to work in the mine. I'm amazed at you, dear lawmakers, how can you stand by and watch this persecution? AKP Manisa MPs, how can you sit comfortably at this time? Congressmans, look what we've done against this persecution: we've drawn attention to the work killings in September, October and November in the same mine. Minister Taner Yildiz and Mr Faruk Çelik have called for immediate duty. On November 11, 2012, we lost one worker in the same mine disaster, and eight of our workers were injured. Right after that, we went to the mine, as we did this time. We've also submitted a motion to the Parliament to investigate problems with employment and labour safety at the mine. The AKP lines were empty again. He couldn't face his own murder. We continued our insistence. In the February 25th mining disaster, this time, our 35 - year - old worker, Aaron, lost the Flood. Immediately after, we drew attention to the size of subcontractors who ignored the health of workers in the mine. We've submitted another research motion. In our talks in the House, we brought up the miners' subcontractors' work problems and asked for the account of this righteous rebellion. Manisa has again watched the AKP MPs exploit them. We've been trying for months, drawing the government's attention to the labor rebellion in this mine. There's nothing we haven't said, no solutions we haven't shown. But the shame of the mine, the enemy of labor, the government-corporated partnership, has come to an unclean extent. This year in July, in Ramadan, our miners were forced to work iftar shifts. Energy Minister Taner Yildiz wasn't even sent to their homes, not to solve the problem of our workers, but because of the political show that the mine in Soma would come to iftara. Minister Star was insensitive to the worker's request, just watching the tired worker's mandatory iftar shift in the mine. The workers who finished their shift were kept in the mine from 5:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Our workers who object to this persecution and show have been brutally threatened. Congressmans, whatever problems there are in our country for business health, there are also problems in this mine in Soma. Unless the responsible answer, as the government abandons control and lays down, every day our lives descend into the mine with fear. As we resist, those who bury their head in the sand when it comes to water, labor, and bread are landless in every mining disaster. Dear MPs, our House should not be insensitive to this struggle for labour and justice, but to end the lack of controls and subcontractory. Our motion to investigate the matter should be put on the agenda and set up a commission immediately. As it says at the entrance to the mine in Soma, I respectfully salute the labor and solidarity of all our miners, who have given a lifetime for a handful of coals. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Oz. A request for a personal word? No. Moving on to QA. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0138par0337	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've been told many times about the physicians after they retired. Doctors who devote their lives to humanity, who work day and night all their lives, who have been devalued in the time of your government, who still have a good place in the hearts of the people, are suffering through your practices, during the retirement period. Earlier talks were promised that necessary steps would be taken -- both you and the Minister of Health -- will be taken in this regard. Now, have you ever done any work on this, or have you ever taken any steps, or do you intend to make an adjustment to regulate the pensions of these physicians, to reflect their return capital on their pensions? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0139par0340	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0140par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in our earlier question, I've asked for information on the government's work on the recruitment of seasonal workers. We have 108 workers in Balıkesir, working as seasonal workers, and Bursa No. These workers are registered in the lu branch, but are still employed by the method of receiving services during the absence of seasonal studies. So these are in a regular way -- actually, these are regular workers, but these workers are being treated as if they were just temporary workers, going around the law. There's a case they're suing right now. Isn't it more appropriate for us to give our employees their rights to the legal grounds, without costing them? Will your government be working on this? Our brothers and sisters in Balıkesir await your good news. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0141par0345	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0142par0347	Mr. Secretary, I asked you from the beginning, you answered at the end; I asked you at the end, you answered at the beginning, and time was not enough. I told you over the years, as Minister of Labor, you can't say anything when I say what law you've made in favor of the workers, which is, for example, that we live in a time or country where the workers' most labor sanctions have been annulled, but even though they've returned with a court order, the employer is still pushing them away by giving them a small number, a financial sum, and rescinding their business documents indefinitely. You haven't brought any regulations into this House. Again, we took out a section on mines in the Employment Insurance Act. We know all about the Health Act, Mr. Secretary. What have you got? You brought occupational security, occupational health care professionals with criminal sanctions, and you didn't bring anything to the employer. So you don't do any criminal sanctions at a workplace when the employer doesn't do these things, which determines the negativity in a workplace, which gives it to the employer in the form of substances, but as a result of these setbacks, if there's an accident...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0141par0349	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0143par0351	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the municipalities have been given positions within the framework of the public benefit programmes of the ISKUR General Directorate. Malatya, the capital city, was unfortunately wronged again. Mardin 2,000, Kars 2,000, Yozgat 2,300, Bitlis, Burdur, Silverhall 1,000, Malatya 500. I'd like to ask him if he'd accept that on his conscience. In addition, Erzurum had a smaller number. Later, the number was raised to 2,000, with the intervention of Erzurum MPs. I ask you, I ask you, to increase your number in Malatya. Indeed, the municipalities in Malatya are in great expectation, all municipalities. I'd like to ask you as a Malatian to do your due diligence on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0144par0355	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Private...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0145par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, please tell me you're joking, because a minister of the Republic of Turkey, a business owner, after paying for it, took the worker to the rally of his own political party. You're the Minister of Labor, you know the difference between slave and worker. Those workers are never, ever political extras. They are the honorable workers who put salt on the bread of their foreheads, and went down to that cold mine to make the earth warm. Those workers don't work in that mine to be part of anyone's political goals, his propaganda. Besides, let's say they had an accident on the road. Are you going to count their work code and mission codes from underground work, the accident they had on the road, and will you give them their compensation, and will you be able to provide their care at the hospital under that insurance? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is that an approach, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0146par0362	Thank you, Mr. Special. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, you're writing the script, you're playing it, so you're not leaving us anything. You're saying: Boss, from this party, the workers are taking the workers from this party to the ground. So you're always saying that. And I'm saying, it's okay for a boss to be a member of a party. If the workers are going, if they're taking them, they're taking them. I mean, all of it.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0148par0368	Everybody's saying it.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0369	I'm telling you the script you're writing, the script you're telling me. I mean, I don't know the guy, the owner of this business in Soma. I haven't seen him at all.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0149par0370	There are those who know, all of Manisa knows.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0371	If you know him, if you see him leaving, if you see him being taken away, it's a scenario you know. So I say...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0149par0372	No, everybody sees it, is that a script?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0150par0373	I mean, you take it fair and square.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0374	For me, whether the worker is paid or not; whether there is an injustice done to the worker; whether he has a problem with running a laborer within the framework of the law; whether he works in a healthy environment or not; I question that. Otherwise it's not political, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, But when I give you this answer, you say, "Is this possible?" Then don't tell me. Don't tell me.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0150par0375	You're being reasonable. They're firing the one who's not going.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0376	Second: Malatya.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0150par0377	They fire the one who doesn't go, the one who doesn't...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0378	Look, if you have that kind of determination, do what needs to be done in the state of law as a congressman.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0150par0379	We're doing it.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0380	Okay, do that.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0150par0381	We complain to the minister, we tell the minister, what else do we do?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0147par0382	There's no need to skip the line when you're complaining to the minister. We've got ears, we've got ears, we've got ears, we've got ears, we've got ears, we've got ears, we've got ears, we've got ears, we've got
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0151par0384	Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0152par0385	Please don't talk to each other... please don't talk to each other... Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0153par0387	Your complaint has been received in a civil manner, but there's no point in carrying it further. If you're complaining, fine, you can do it in writing. You have the right to say, "Do what you want,'you have something to say wrong.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0154par0388	Say it's wrong, sir, it's right, it can be done.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0153par0389	I don't know if it's wrong, I haven't done any research...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0154par0390	You're saying it's possible.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0153par0391	I don't know if it's right or wrong. May God make it easy for the group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, ISKUR, Malatya, TYCP, working for the community -- not for a staff -- is doing project-based employment. We've made arrangements. The national education period, along with October 1st, is a national education project aimed at meeting the needs of schools and an instalment for this purpose, considering the socioeconomic development of the provinces. The unemployment rate in our Malatya province... must be the level of development, considering many factors... I don't know how many numbers there are now, you said. (CHP rows) Excuse me, excuse me... So in this frame, it's an evaluation, and it's a division. If, indeed, as you say, there should be more at the level of socioeconomic development, but there is a lower number, we can personally look at it and do the necessary supplements, to increase it.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0155par0395	Madam Secretary, 500 have been given! Don't do this to Malatya, Minister.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0153par0396	Okay. The other issue is the regular situation of these workers, especially in their workplaces, where they work through the sub-employee. In some public institutions, the real employer and the sub-employee who do the same work do the same work, such as in the example of the Highways. There's a sub-employee who does the same job and a major employer. These have moved to the judiciary, and they have largely decided that the judiciary should be accepted as the original employer's employee or pay their compensation. And we're currently working on the work we're doing on this sub-employee that has to do with the solution to this problem...
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0156par0399	Mr. President, let the Minister continue, please, it's an important matter. More retired physicians have salaries. If that's all right with you.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0157par0400	Congressmans, everyone's talking on time. We can give the minister an extra minute. Here you go, have a word with me. After that, we'll close the merger because we've already reached the end of our working time. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0158par0403	Yes, thank you. Now, really, the situation of these sub-employees and their main employers is very important. One of the most important parts of our draft work right now is that we are at a very important point in dealing with the position of these workers -- the issues of the judiciary and the decisions that the judiciary has made -- to the solution of the problems of our workers. Hopefully, we'll have to pay their compensation, their rights, hopefully, and from now on, we'll have to make an arrangement in this legal arrangement for the non-responsibility of the workplace. In Balıkesir, if I'm not mistaken, it's been expressed that he works with seasonal workers for a period of under six months, and then they're employed under service, and there's no such thing here. According to your statement, it has been brought to trial, and if there is a trial, I would like to say that their position -- as I have just expressed -- would be judged in the same frame. Doctors... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0159par0409	I'll ask the physicians again tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-10-23sit03spe0160par0410	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You answer the rest in writing. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On Thursday (October 24th 2013), the decision to discuss other tasks from the Commissions on Bills and Proposals, as we have reached the end of its term, is at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken Thursday (October 24th 2013). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
