tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 12th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press ballots and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to access the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency within three minutes of staff personnel. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of myself and the Court of the Presidential Court, I wish that the month of war, which has begun, firstly, to strengthen our sense of unity, unity and brotherhood in our country, to bring peace and peace to the world. On this occasion, I pray that these and such events, which cause tears, pain, and regret, will never be repeated, as we offer all our martyrs, especially Kerbela. Congressmans, we're going to begin off-the-tops talks later, but I want to point out that I have already stated that I will not meet the request of the first 10 people if it comes to the 60th article of the Interior Charter, but if the month of combat is limited only to today, as long as it is due to the start of the month of combat, I will meet the request of the first 10 people. However, I ask you to enter the system regarding the 60th Amendment in connection with the month of combat alone. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, who asked about the month of combat and Kerbala incident. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0002par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, he's here again. This month, above all, is a moon of mourning. Grieving for what? The mourning of the martyrs of Kerbala, the mourning of the son of the prophet. When we say "Muharrem," we think of the Kerbala case. After being left without water in Kerbala for days, the persecution of the martyred Imam Hussein and his 72 inhabitants comes to mind. In fact, Kerbala always reminds people of a dry, thirsty desert like this, but not really. Kerbala is a desert that is passed through by the great Fırat. The meaning of Kerbala is that the water of Fırat is common to the son of the prophet. I mean, one sip of water, one sip of water, one sip of the wolf, one sip of the bird, one sip of the serpent, and one sip of the dew, and one sip of the water of the river. That is the meaning of Kerbala. On his side, not only did Imam Hussein die, but also Ali Asgar, the six-month-old child of Imam Hussein, who was in the fire, died without water, in the wilderness of Kerbala, on the edge of Fırat. At one point in the battle, Imam Hussein went to the front, holding his son, Ali Asgar, and his baby in the fire. He said by returning to Yazid's army, you might see me guilty, perhaps you'd like to take my life because I didn't swear to this cruel, dictator Yazid, but what do you want from this baby? At least give this one a sip of water. The six-month-old baby in the fire... the commander of Yezid said to Hermele the Archer: "Send water to the child." Hermele understood. He drew the bow with his bow and killed Ali Asgar, who was in Imam Hussein's lap with a three-perm bow. He poured blood into the palm of the hand of the Imam, and sprinkled it in the air. Be a witness, for God's sake. So they say that on that day the angels once again prostrated themselves in the person of Imam Hussein because of the honor of mankind, that Imam Hussein was able to do so. It'll be a thank you. They say: Every moment is a plague. Yeah, Kerbela's a pain in the ass. In our country today, we are thankful that Hanefi, and Shafii, and Alami, and Jaferi, and everyone loves Imam Hussein, and his people, and cares for him, and that pain is in his heart. I expect the rulers of our country to feel the same way, so we love the class, and we love Ali. That's right, you do, but love those who love Ali, and those who love the people who love the people, and give them their rights. I think this will contribute to social peace. In some lands around us today, we are thankful that our people are far away from that mindset, saying, "Allah is great." Our nation is trying to understand and live the right interpretation of Islam. We too must learn that lesson from this Kerbala Event. With respect for different views, different beliefs in society, I say to myself, "Everyone's faith." I say, "Let's live together in peace over the household," and for this occasion, I remember all the martyrs from Badir to Kerbela to Çanakkale, and from Kerbela to Çanakkale to today. Hail Hussain. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0003par0035	Thank you, Mr. Original. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Istanbul MP İbrahim Yiğit (Abraham) who asked for the name of the month of war. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0004par0040	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to one of our sacred months, the month of battle and the events of Kerbela, and I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I do not wish to speak to you on this important day in stereotypes. So today, I want to tell you that man's cruelty and brutality will never be forgotten and will not be erased from history's pages. Kerbala, one of the most important events in the history of Islam, continues to deeply affect the entire Muslim world even today. The killing of 73 lives, mostly women, Imam Hussein and most of them, has been reliving every year in the hearts of all those who have not been erased and felt human for centuries. For centuries, the poets of Alevi have poured out these tragic events into their hearts, writing hundreds of mere mercries and poems, which express their sorrows and their anger. For centuries, we Alevi have come to this day with this belief that they have made them their own. The month Muharrem is actually a month of mourning based on their great suffering. Even in mourning, self - discipline is intended. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue my remarks with the following episode of Esseyid Hulusi, one of the masters I mentioned above, who wrote a beautiful summary of what happened. ▪ Tells the truth, the superstitions don't hear, There is no way that they can go astray. Islam would not deny this suffering, The people of this world are not called muslims. He fell down from his horse to Sahrai'l Kerbalah, Jibril go and tell the Sultan of Enbiya. It describes the fact that the greed for power and power blinds the eyes and cannot be performed by any Muslim or person who calls himself a human being. Honorable lawmakers, a member of the family, find its essence in human love and accept all thoughts as a human right. He doesn't despise anyone because of their faith. The main thing is to reveal knowledge, friendship, compassion, equality, and piety. As Haci Bektas Veli said: "The greatest book to read is man, and our way is based on knowledge, wisdom, and the love of mankind. " Events in Kerbala have been committed against all these values, and this desperate desire for power has led to the loss of the lives of dozens of innocent people. Dear lawmakers, Imam Hussein has opposed man's worship and defended those thoughts at the cost of his life. If we still remember and remember him here today, it is because of his honorable and valiant struggle in Kerbala for his righteous cause. As I mentioned before, faith is a very sensitive subject for societies. No one in the community would want to interfere with his faith. Therefore, bans and bans have never been a resolving approach to the dimension of faith, but they have led to social conflicts and dissolutions. Following the demands of groups who claim to have problems in society will make it even easier to resolve problems. Otherwise, unwanted tensions won't do anyone any good. As Lord Ali put it, the conflict of opinion brings out the truth. Our beloved People's Poet, Veysel, also referred to the importance of meeting in the human focus of a different language, religion, faith, and ethnic origins that can live together in peace. Dear lawmakers, history will never erase this human drama from its pages, nor will it forgive the oppressors. As for Imam Hussein and his ethos, they will continue to guard their place in history as a symbol of honorable resistance to those who persecute man. It is also our duty to understand the men of good morality and to pass it on to our future generations as the key to understanding today. As I hereby put an end to my words, I once again share the sufferings of the Islamic world, the unbreakable social peace and peace of mind in our country, with all my best wishes for people to live in brotherly and peace.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0005par0060	Thank you, Mr. Hero. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about national and moral values. Here you go, Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0006par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, segregation, camping and polarization have been undermining the ship, enforcing and roughing national and moral values at all speeds. The national, moral, and historical bonds that bind society are torn apart one by one. The common interests and common values of the Turkish community are despised and ignored, while differences and divisions are blessed. The Turkish nation is divided and beaten in AKP's anvil as................. as................... Variety focuss are transporting fuel to separatism by loading the national values with the term "nationist" in religious values. The values that society should stick together like glue are being tried by the ruling authorities to become opposites and alternatives to each other. Prime Minister Erdogan's Van speech is a war against the Turkish nation in this sense. One man who swears before the great Turkish nation turns and says, "No, the Kurdish nation will come out. The people of Laz will say, "No, the people of Laz." Why do you say that, people get it all... The Turkish nation has once imposed its sovereignty against the imperialists who have invaded Anatolia by ignoring it, and no one else has been imposed on it. The logic of Recep Tayyip Erdogan is that if you say that I am Muslim, someone will say that I am Christian; if you say that I am Sunni, someone will say that I am Alevi. If you say that I am Turkish people, someone will say that I am Kurdish people; if you say Turkish language, someone will say that it is Georgian; if you call Turkish art music, someone will say Laz art music; if you call Turkish proverbs, someone will say "Chersik proverb." If we say that, it's divisive, so let the people say the word, let him say the word, let him say the word, let him say the art, let him say the music. It's called "dense," "conjunctural identity-indicted personality" (e.g. personality). The concept of Turkish people (Turkish people) is not the opposite of any nation or of any ethnicity, as Prime Minister Erdogan thought. To be more specific, the concept of the Turkish nation is not an alternative. Turkey is the AKP version of separatism to view Kurdish or Kurdish as anti-Turkish (Turkish). Prime Minister Erdogan divides the society for political rant by bringing the concepts to the side, pouring gasoline into the heat of the ethnic fitness. According to Prime Minister Erdogan, let's not call it Turkish people, but let's call it Turkish nationals. So let's say it's a million, but it's French, it's German, it's Greek, it's Italian, it's Arab, it's Georgian. What do you mean when you say "people"? How will anyone know that? Then why should people deny the originals for the sake of Recep Erdogan?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0007par0070	Don't shout, why are you shouting?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0006par0071	In the Turks, it's a sin to deny the truth, it's a sin! There was a Bulgarian Jivkov in the past who said, "Don't call Turk Turk." "Greek" was saying to the relatives there, so that you don't call Turk. And now Turkey says Erdogan, "Don't call Turk Turk." I declare aloud from here: to remove the concept of the Turkish nation from the Constitution, to transform national festivals into a folklore ritual, to expel the words of Turkish, righteous, hardworking, from schools, to shave the words of the people from monuments, to remove the Turkish Republic from the signs, to destroy the mosque that stands in front of it, to be hostile to the Turkish nation!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0008par0073	Get out of here!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0006par0074	When you say "Turkish people," the AKP really wants Malazgirt, Mohaç, Çanakkale, Sakarya, Dumlupınar back from the Turkish nation. We won't let that happen. Only an occupation government can do what the AKP has done against national values. When the time comes, the Turkish nation will know to be Hasan Tahsin, as well as the Milkyman Imam, who means his nationality and his homeland, about the hands reaching for his namahrem. I am a Turk, and my religion, and my kind are great. Those who call Turkey "Turkish-free" and "unrooted" will also keep their children alive. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0009par0077	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Off-the-books talk is over, Mr. Lawmakers. As I just explained, I will now promise the first ten MPs to enter the system on the basis of the month of battle. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0010par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. As we remember Kerbala with sorrow and example, we understand the month of battle. I say that God accepts the fasts of battle. May God protect Muslims and mankind from blood, tears, and suffering. I wish for peace, brotherhood and peace, the Middle East and the world. On this occasion, Mr. President, from former prime ministers of the Republican People's Party, an emotional wife, a romantic poet, a steadfast leader, an honest statesman, in the 7th year of his death, I am grateful, grateful and grateful. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0011par0087	Thank you. Here's the line.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0012par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. The Muharrem month, as well as the ashram, as well as the Kerbala, is a month when all Muslims remember their common sorrows, their common sorrows, and their first night is New Year's Eve for Muslims. The month of the battle, which was martyred in Kerbala, the beloved grandson of Muhammad, the beloved grandson of Muhammad, who has not surrendered to persecution, and has remained in the presence of justice and righteousness, has a special significance in the Islamic world, especially on the 10th day. Another feature of the month of the battle, which is called the sacred month, is that it is becoming increasingly traditional. This month is a month when Kerbala speaks of her martyrs, and she shares the profound pain of the Islamic world. I believe that Muslims all over the world must develop a common language, a common culture, a common thought in order to prevent new Kerbalas from happening. I hereby celebrate the New Year and the month of war of the entire Islamic world, bringing peace, love, and tolerance to the world. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0013par0094	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, celebrate the 1435th Indian New Year and celebrate the month of war with prayers. Indeed, the moon of war is the moon of the oppressed, and the cry of the oppressed. As a whole Turkish nation, the whole Islamic world must feel this pain, but we regret to say that we have not yet learned and learned from a tragedy and a sorrowful event in the Islamic world. Peace and brotherhood, unfortunately, have fallen to second place, fighting and hostility have taken the lead. Today, when we enter Muharrem, we pray to the Lord to come out of this darkness, and we invite everyone to be responsible. In order to protect our nation from this trial and corruption, as the National Party of Action, we pray for the month of battle again, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0013par0099	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0015par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are now entering the month of the battle, one of the most important months of Islamic religion, and the first month of the satire calendar. This month includes important events and important times. 12 imam fasts began after we entered the Muharrem month. We are on the 1333th anniversary of the age of mankind's history in Kerbala. On this anniversary, we wish the Flame of our lives to be accepted by the right side of the mourning fast. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we wish these days, especially the peoples of Turkey and the Middle East, to offer the peoples of the world a fair life in peace and equality. We also wish to make decisions in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that will bring freedom to all faiths, to all peoples, to all languages, to peace for the Middle East. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0016par0105	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0017par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Çanakkale Bayramic is the village of Ötlu in our district and is located on two slopes. A hill where it is built is the Hill of Clay. This is being mined. The mining takes 24 hours and the night is dangerous. The villagers are uncomfortable. The falling stones come over the houses. It could be a loss of life, and the trees are being cut down. We have a citizen called Bulent Behcet Afyen who is protesting this, who is currently on hunger strike. He says he'll burn himself on November 7th if he doesn't take precautions. If anything happens to this friend of ours, it's the AKP government's responsibility, and I want to announce it from here.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0016par0110	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. But, friends, dear lawmakers, as we move on to this part of our agenda, I've asked you a favor. From now on, I'd like to ask the fellow speakers to meet this request with precision. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0018par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. On 5 November 2006, we lost the most important leader of Turkish politics, our former President, our Prime Minister Bkent Ecevit, on the anniversary of his death, honor and mercy. While our disabled citizens live abroad have no obstacles abroad, they face barriers to access to border crossings while entering our country, where they come in longing. For this reason, the disabled citizens who live abroad, who are homesick, think twice about coming to our country. When will our country become a country where disabled citizens can live in a way that will never be cut off from social life? Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0019par0118	Mr. Bekin Shakulubey...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0020par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish that the month of war, which has a special meaning in the entire Islamic world, especially our Anatolian world, would bring us together in the climate of peace and peace, and I wish that we would reach out to each individual in a manner worthy of the name of the month of war, unconditional respect and respect. Last week, it was possible for us to meet with common sense in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the eye of the nation's will, how far our country could travel on the path of unity and unity, to avoid our prejudices, our shallow camps. Our High Council has established its proper position. On this occasion, on behalf of the party groups, I would like to thank the presidents on behalf of me and my friends. We, as representatives of our nation, are concerned about our country's march of democracy and the fundamental rights and freedoms that will surround all our citizens...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0021par0125	Thank you. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0022par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 1333th year of violence, slaughter, and genocide, while cursing Kerbela, I offer greetings, greetings to all, all of us, in the hope that all mankind will meet in peaceful tomorrows, regardless of religion, language, identity, culture, and all of us, the righteous, righteous, and pursuers of the month of our battle.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0021par0130	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0023par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the Kerbala Event remains a bomb that has been thrown into the midst of Muslims, people living with Islam in Islamic geography. There are still massacres in Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Syria, and Iraq. On this occasion, I extend my regards to humanity, especially to the Islamic geography and to the whole world, to bring peace, brotherhood, and peace.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0021par0135	Thank you. Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0024par0138	Mr. President, I wish that the month of battle would be an example of the past, of past sufferings forgotten, of similar sufferings not to be experienced. I want to remind you of a line from Kerbala's representation: "The silences are also responsible for saving the day as much as the authorities. " This is one of the basic principles that is valid for all eternity, and honorable people must not forget.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0021par0139	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Dear MPs, I want to thank you all again for your concern for the matter I requested. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There is a review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I will have it read and briefed. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of the delegation, headed by Burkina Faso National Assembly Speaker Soungalo Outtara, was approved by the 3/10/2013 decision of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court and by the 55th. The visit of the delegations to our country will be presented to the information of the General Assembly under the 7th Article of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. They have a motion to resign from the commissions, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to withdraw from the membership of the TBM Human Rights Review Commission. I respectfully request that it be done. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from my duties as a member of the Justice Commission. With all due respect, I do. 1/11/2013 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to ask you to accept my resignation as a member of the Commission for Public Economics (CIT). 11/10/2013 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Economic, social and cultural problems, crooked urbanization, domestic immigration, increasing poverty, corrupt revenue distribution, and different issues between regions. One of these problems is our children who are forced to live and work on the streets. We are not a threat, we are in danger. We propose and establish and propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the true size of the situation and the scale of the painting that its slogan is most accurate about our children, in order to determine the measures taken to bring our children into society. [[Ankara]] 2) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 3) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 4) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 6) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Tekirdağ]] 8) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Antalya]] [[Koceli]] One of the problems that comes with economic, social and cultural problems, urbanization, growing urbanisation, poverty, inter-regional differences, loss in income distribution, is our children who are forced to live on the streets. The number of children who lack family care and protection or are employed on the street by their parents is increasing year after year. These children, called street children, are children who live and/or work on the streets of the cities; they reside in abandoned buildings, on cardboard boxes, in parks. These children are trying to survive under difficult circumstances, in all kinds of danger and threats. Most of our children, referred to as street children, are children who stay out of education, who are forced to work late at school after school. Our children on the streets are exposed to physical violence, sexual abuse, disease. Our children also have a very high rate of drug addiction. Substance addiction also causes our children to engage in crime and to be pushed out of society. Street gangs are forced by hand to beg and steal. Children's abuse, children's begging, drug mafia, organ mafia, children's use in terrorism, these children are exposed. Children living on the streets are also likely to be involved in crime as well as to be at risk. Although crime and children are not compatible, unfortunately, the number of children involved in crime is high in our country. Children who are also exposed to social exclusion are unable to receive social acceptance and have the chance to navigate their lives. Part of the children are searching the streets as victims of broken family structure, domestic violence, child abuse, economic, social and cultural dilemmas. These children have difficulty adapting to society because of such factors as poverty, crowded family structure, physical, economic, sexual or emotional abuse. These children, who are the orphans of the streets, tend to alienate the society they strive to live in, often resort to drugs, are in danger of being victims of crime or of being accused. In accordance with the United Nations (UN) Convention on Children's Rights, these children are evaluated in the 3Kategory of children in need of special protection. According to UNICEF data, the largest generation of children in the history of the world will be born within the ten years we are in. A million and a half of these children will be born in Turkey. In our country, where city poverty grows year after year, some of these children will have to live on the streets. A child means a future. Children who have to grow up on the streets are children doomed to despair. The great work of Victor Hugo is that of the children who live to reach the end of the years by jumping from man to man, as he spoke of in the Lesbians. The fact that these children are ignored can neither remove the truth nor the problem. To free our children from substance abuse, to restore them to society and family, to reveal the real picture of street children, to create policies needed to prevent this problem, would be a guide to the solution to the problem. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly DeP MPs Orhan Doğan and Hatip Dicle were taken into custody by undercover police on March 2, 1994, leaving the TBMM. On the same day, MPs Orhan Doğan, Hatip Dicle, Leyla Zana, Ahmet Türk, Sırrı Sakık and independent MP Mahmut Aldak were removed and then arrested and put in prison. These events are called the March 2nd coup. In order to investigate the events of that period, I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Interior Law. In the 1991 elections, People's Labour Party (HEP) entered parliament with 18 MPs, formed the Democratic Party (DEP) with the decision to close the party, and HEP MPs moved to the new party. DeP MPs Orhan Doğan and Hatip Dicle were detained by civil police on March 2, 1994, as a result of a smear campaign launched by MPs Layla Zana and Hatip Dicle on the parliamentary stand. DeP MPs Orhan Doğan, Hatip Dicle, Leyla Zana, Ahmet Türk, Sırı Sakık and the independent MP Mahmut Alalak have been removed from the voting on the same day. On March 4, 1994, Layla Zana and other MPs were taken into custody and put in prison. On 16 June 1994, the Constitutional Court ruled that the DEP be shut down and that the immunity of 13 MPs in five prisons be lifted. Deputies Hatip Dicle, Leyla Zana, Orhan Doğan and Selim Sadak have been sentenced to ten years in prison by Ankara's DGM 1st under Article 168/2 of Turkish Parliament. Ten days before the removal of parliamentary immunity from the DeP MPs, there is no need to search the former Chief of Staff, Doğan Wrestling, in Bekaa. Unfortunately, some of them are under the roof of the Supreme Assembly. On March 2, 1994, Prime Minister Tansu Ciller pointed out that there was a shadow at his party's group meeting in the parliament, which we are obliged to remove from parliament. Following the coup on September 12, 1980, Turkey's statement of secularism made on 27/4/2007 by the Chief of Staff on February 28, 1997 and at 11:20 p.m. was described as a public record. While the two incidents were referred to as coups, there were no other speakers, except Kurdish politicians and some intellectuals, which reminded them of a coup on March 2, 1994. March 2nd, like September 12th, was perceived as the seizure of will to the representatives of the people. On March 2, 1994, people who were elected by the people's votes were expelled from Parliament by violation of the Constitutional Court, and according to the Constitutional Court, lawmakers were not expected to appeal within a week. When the police shouldn't have entered the council, Congress is filled with police until backstage. The MPs have been taken into custody in a offensive manner. For these reasons, the postmodern coup and 27/4/2007 are a coup against the will of Parliament on March 2, 1994. Tansu Çiller, Mehmet Agar, first Susurlik and now Ergenekon. This shows that March 2nd was a deep government operation for that period. In a sense, the March 2 coup is part of the Ergenekon process. While other coups are being discussed, the failure to discuss March 2nd will remain a black mark in Turkey's history of democracy. To clean this up, the background of events at that time is a necessity for Turkey to investigate, democratize, and face its history. It is also a debt to Orhan Doğan, who has been taken into custody and has become a symbol of this incident. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the negligence of the Constitution in the rescue effort, which occurred on 3/4/2012 at the Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant, Erzurum Province, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, I demand that Parliament be opened on the basis of Articles 104 and 105. 11/4/2012 [[Erzurum]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kütahya]] [[Samsun]] [[Kayseri]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Tripoli]] [[Mughle]] 12) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] Since our country does not have a legal and administrative mechanism that controls hydropower plants, hydropower plants have problems in the process of establishing legal and ecological problems, while in the business stage there are problems. The Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant in Ashkale district of Erzurum Province has been watered for eight months in a very primitive and insecure manner. The Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant is not allowed to hold water when it has the right to use water. It was applied to the DSI about a month ago. Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Power Plant has six villages in front of it. It also has the largest chrome and magnesium business in Turkey, where hundreds of people live in front of it. On April 3, 2012, an energy transport line passed through the Blacksu-2 Hydroelectric Plant Pond in Ashkale, Erzurum Province, Turkey. Five TEDAS men who rode the sea bike to repair the malfunction in a section of the ice-covered pond hit the edge at 40 to 50 metres of ice and fell into the water from the capsized sea bike. As a result of this sad event at 4:45, 1..... the head of the 5 workers was killed by a head of ice, while one worker froze to death, and three others were strangled to death. Factory workers who saw the accident at Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Power Plant Lake 17. He called the police, civil defense, and 112 emergency services at 00. The Ministry of Health's air ambulance arrived at the scene at 19.39 for survivors who were waiting to be rescued by the ice mass for about three hours. An ambulance helicopter belonging to the Ministry of Health returned with a tour of the pond because it was designed only to transport patients, with a high tension line, without the helicopter's search-and-rescue capabilities and proper equipment. The incident also reveals the fact that there was not a single emergency search and rescue helicopter in the Eastern Anatolian region. The governor of Erzurum, Erzurum, who was reportedly at home at the time of the incident, went to the scene the day after the intense responses. While the helicopter did not request a full-fledged rescue helicopter from the Brigade, Malatya announced that a helicopter had been requested and that TEDAS workers had lost their lives as a result of the late arrival of the helicopter from Malatya. Thus, the necessary institutions were not contacted on time. 81 personnel are employed at the Civil Defence Directorate of Erzurum Governorate. He is a search-and-rescue technician. The Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant Pond, where the incident took place in about 30 minutes between Erzurum-Loveale, should have been reached, while civil defense teams arrived about three hours later. It is also said that at the time of the incident, the personnel who were supposed to be on duty at Erzurum Civil Defence Directorate were in their homes, while the civilian defence director's teams were sent to the scene with incomplete plumbing. Of the five workers who died in the incident, one of them works at TEDAS. Four other workers work at the subcontractor company. Thus, the four workers working at the subcontractor company were sent to the pond when they had no training or authority over repairs. TEDAS didn't lift the high-voltage carrier pole before the water-holding process began. An ambulance, rescue, helicopter assistance was not prepared, and the workers who were sent were not given any security or protective clothing. The accident at the Karasu-2 Hydroelectric Plant Lake in Ashkale district of Erzurum province, and post-rescue neglects in the rescue efforts indicate that our most sacred right to live has been violated and that there has been major negligence in the work safety and rescue effort. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly It will be held on 14 November 2013, as part of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Russian Federation and the Federal Assembly. On the subject of an official visit to Moscow to join the International Parliamentary Forum, it is presented to the General Assembly under the 9th Article of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. By the way, we also bless Bulent Ecevit, one of the former prime ministers who left us on November 5, 2006. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/11/2013 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. The meeting of the main Council for Assembly Research (10/280) of Turkey's Grand National Assembly agenda was proposed during the General Assembly's 5/11/2013 Tuesday (Today) merger of 5/11/2013 on Tuesday (day). On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word, in favour of Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu, belongs to him. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0025par0330	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak to the esteemed lawmakers about the problems of the nut product and the manufacturer and the motion that I have made to investigate the measures to become a market actor and to create a stable nut market. On this occasion, I salute you all. Nuts are the agricultural export product, a major part of our country's agricultural production and economy. In the East Black Sea, especially in the Army, Giresun, Tripoli, our people have to live on the revenue of their budgets, their year-long lives, and in order to make a living, they do their accounts accordingly. Besides, they determine their social life by nuts. For example, if they're going to marry their children, if they have nuts that year, they'll do the wedding club job. In March, they remove the nut branch, look at the birth of the nut, and with their experience, they get an idea of how many nuts there will be that year, and they go on with their lives. Our country has about 80 per cent of the world's production grounds and 80 per cent of its production. On the other hand, about 85 per cent of the nut trade is carried out by our country. Thus, nuts, which grow in Turkey, also meet the world's nut requirements. In our country, nearly 400,000 families live on nuts, and when we add other actors who live on nuts, that number reaches 8 million. Turkey produces an average of 650,000 tonnes of nuts annually. Gene, about 600,000 tonnes of this production are exported. That's a $100 billion trade volume. Unfortunately, the nut maker's share in this $100 billion volume is $1.3 billion. We don't make enough money from the product that we're all monopoly on in the world. And the nut makers never get what's theirs. The manufacturer sells its product, which is so valuable, close to its cost or undercost. For example, the cost of 1 kilo of nuts this year was $5.64, but the nut market opened at $5.5 lira. We only provide about one third of our uncut agricultural exports from nuts. So, the practice of exporting the most foreign currency is that it doesn't give the nut manufacturer anything. Turkey is the world monopoly in nuts, so it has the opportunity to set the price as it pleases. However, I would like to say that the world's nut prices have been determined in countries such as Germany, Italy, and not Turkey. One of the strange things that happens in nuts is that the manufacturer of a country that produces 80 percent of the world's nuts, which has a monopoly on nuts, doesn't get the money he deserves from this product. However, it is difficult to understand the dissatisfaction of brokers or traders in marketing nuts into the world because European capitalism and collaborators in Turkey are making huge profits from the nuts that the manufacturer and the worker gain nothing from. It is said in our country that the Hamburg Stock Exchange Union has set the world price of nuts. The price of nut exporters in Turkey has been seen again six months before the harvest, after the price has been determined according to the pleasure of exporters. Other types of agricultural products, described as alternative products to nuts, are not really substitutes for nuts, but they can be supportive. With nutmegism, it's the only way they'll be able to assess it as additional activities. Because it's not practically possible for our farmer to stop producing nuts that have been traditional for a hundred, two hundred years, and turn to another production, and when we evaluate it in all its dimensions, it's not random. Members of parliament, there is no alternative for the producer of the nut that is largely raised in the Army and Giresun. The Army and the village of Giresun, without industry, without industrial agriculture, are obliged to produce nuts. As climate and land conditions do not allow another crop to grow, at least 150,000 hectares of the area in which nuts are produced in the East Black Sea region have completed its economic life span. Nut trees are eighty, ninety, a hundred years old, and they don't yield. One acre of land buys 70 to 80 kilograms of nuts. This nut is very low. Therefore, we must support the nut. For example, we need to remove the aging nut ovens, branches, trees, on a five-acre land of a five-acre nut manufacturer, and in return, we need to be supported by the government by the manufacturer until the cost of the plant costs and the amount of nuts to grow during that time comes into the hands of the manufacturer. The Army and Giresun nut shop, which, according to other Turkish-wide agricultural products, is a relatively small-scale family agriculture, makes less money for its owner every year. In the East Black Sea, where the most important, most quality production of the world's nuts has fallen year after year, while the manufacturer's income has already fallen over the years, particularly the height of the Recolte, which is being eradicated on the basis of problems in exports. At the point where we're here today, it turns out there's no problem with recollateries, exports and prices. Every year, so-called recluses are made, propaganda is put on too high, and as the season of nuts begins every year in Georgia, in Azerbaijan, Italy, Spain, it is tried to be reduced by nut companies, claiming that there are many nuts in Spain, and that American almonds are alternative to nuts. The target should be 90 percent of the world's production, not 80 per cent, because today, the demand for the world's nut production has reached 950,000 tonnes. In Europe, we must not pursue the interests of large companies, a handful of nut merchants, Greek, Italian, and Spanish nut makers, with the applied nut strategy. All measures must be taken by training the nut maker to produce more products per acre. Nut makers must be properly trained for the disease in nuts. The producer should be trained to care for nut gardens and encouraged to grow quality, pistachio nuts. Supporting the nut maker to sustain the regional economy is also important for the country's interests to embrace the nut product with four hands. In terms of a severe economic crisis in the world and Turkey, weighting agriculture and agriculture-based industry may be a way out for Turkey. With the figures of the Black Sea Nut Exporters Association, Turkey received $1 billion,819 million foreign currency in 2011-2012, exporting 229,000 tonnes of domestic nuts, exporting more than 301,000 tonnes of domestic nuts in 2012-2013. Turkey has sold 71 tonnes more nuts than last year, and unfortunately, $69m less revenues. Nuts are a blessing that we have wronged from the manufacturer to his merchant and his worker to his intermediary, which no one is pleased with. The European Union falls into position, either knowing or not, supporting producers in other countries, Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, producing nuts outside Turkey. Today, the nut maker was left completely powerless, unsecured, unsecured in the face of the nut investor. So we say that FlSKOBlTY must be restructured and strengthened. In particular, a licensed warehouse must be developed in the East Black Sea and in the West Black Sea. The nut exchange must be established in the Eastern Black Sea region. Before each harvest season, the nut maker must be provided with the necessary loan support. I'd like to ask that all MPs, regardless of any political parties, in the first place, support the motion for research on the black Sea nut product, which brings serious foreign currency to the country, which is the bread of the Black Sea, to support all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0026par0346	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. The first word against the Republican People's Party group's proposal belongs to Giresun MP Mehmet Güçül. Here you go, Mr. He's here.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0027par0350	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's motion to investigate problems with nuts and, therefore, nut products. I salute your high council. Dear friends, as it is known, with 1 June 2000 dates and 4572 points, the law has been passed for the autonomy of agricultural troops, and in accordance with this law, a work has been launched to restructure agricultural troops. As part of this study, FISKOBIRK went into restructuring, starting from that day. During this construction, he began to fulfill his obligations, and at the same time -- as you know -- we faced some problems with Turkey's finding its true value in the market, especially the most important product of the East Black Sea. In particular, since our government came to power on November 3, 2002, considering the value of the nut in the market conditions on that day, we will see that it has been given extraordinary support and that it has always maintained its value at unprecedented levels, and that its satisfaction has always been the strongest product, and that the producer's satisfaction has really moved to the highest levels. In particular, in the days when we came to power, 95 cents later, at the beginning of that day, the price of nuts, called the highest product on that day, is $2.20.20, and if you look at the average after the AK PARTI came to power, it didn't come down to under $3.5, it followed a course between $3.5 and $4.5. Especially in the nuts, in 2006, when the real FİSKOBIRKIKYLIK was unable to see its balancing and regulatory function in the market, the Earth's Equipment Office was activated by the introduction of nuts. In fact, in those days, even though the Earth crop office didn't have enough specialists, the population of the nut maker was severely balancing the market. As it may be known, the laws of Law 4572 and manufacturers from the Black Sea have been carried out in accordance with the law concerning the restructuring of the Nut Farm Sales Co-operatives Union, which is very important for the Black Sea, and in the restructuring process all employees' compensations and pensions have been met by law, all debts have been cleared and has become a debt-free institution. If, in 2006, the purchase policy hadn't been implemented with the wrong policies of that day, the FISKOBIRK was a company with 300 million cash sources -- all its debts, almost 2.5 quadrillion in debt -- when it went into the market that day -- but unfortunately, the 2006 product was given a high price and the FİSKOBIRC couldn't afford it and was locked up. From that day on, FlSKOBlC couldn't really function as a balancing organization for the manufacturer. From that day on, the EC PARTI decision-making and the Council of Ministers led to provide support indirectly -- since there is no direct support in the law at all times, there is no direct access to funds. To that end, as you know, TMO was first assigned, the purchase of nuts through TMO continued. Later, 30,000 tonnes of oil-separated nuts were transferred from TMO (TMO) to a decree issued in 2008, particularly in connection with the possible restructuring, the debts that stemmed from this configuration, and the debt of the wrong debt policy, and were used to purge significant amounts of debt. In the meantime, especially in the form of a chain-sponsor system, which Candybank, our East Black Sea manufacturer, will know very well... because, as you know, FISKOBIRK is a manufacturer's union. THE manufacturer -- when they gave them their money -- in particular, they made them vouch for the Candybank loans they used, and the manufacturer agreed because FISKOBIRC is his own organization. But unfortunately, when debts were not paid, the manufacturer took the risk, and the interest of these debts was erased, and the producer's debt, the liquidation of the sugarbank debt, provided the necessary support for the liquidation of FİSKOBIRLITH's debt, and thanks to this, the manufacturer took a comfortable breath to get rid of a very large chain of guarantors, and FISKOBIRC approved a large portion of its debt. And then, again, our government, especially by implementing direct income support... as you know, the nut product, as our Precious Congressman, Selahattin Bey. Right now, we have 42 counties producing nuts, but many of them have the ability to grow agricultural land and other products. So, the existing, very ancient law states that normally there shouldn't be making nuts on farms, on bases, but unfortunately, it's been done, and the governments haven't been involved in this for years in any way. But, for the first time, the AK PARTY government has implemented an incentive system, depending on the years, in exchange for the removal of nut products from the bases of the land, through its decree. If they did, the incentive and nuts provided a direct 150-dollar income support per acre to those who planted nuts in the sloped land -- in 2009's decree -- covering 2009, 2010, 2011. Dear friends, especially in the East Black Sea, there are about 100 kilograms [100 kg] of nuts per acre [100 kg] in the lower half, and they drop up to 70 kilograms [70 kg]. So, when you look at the kilogram, friends, the manufacturer was supported between $1.5 and $2.2. This also has had a very important support for the manufacturer, since the product costs are very high. At the time of FİSKOBIRLİLİKİKİKİNKİN, the East Black Sea manufacturer never fully earned the nut, but for the first time in this period, he received it through direct income support. Unfortunately, however, in the removal of nuts in the land, in the soles of the land, there was not enough, not enough, but a reduction of about 5 per cent. As a result of this -- again, as you know -- by issuing a second decree, right now, for the first year -- 2012 per acre -- 150 lira for the second year, for 2013, 160 lira for the second year, and 170 lira for 2014 -- and in the same way, our government supported the manufacturer in the bottom fields, in which they were to be dismantled. However, for a second time, a 50,000-tonne nut issued by our government in 2011 by our government for the purpose that FİSKOBIKİRKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİRKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKKİKİKİKİKİK, on the basis of paying its debts from 2006 in particular, has been transferred to the FİSKOBİRİRİZlKİZlKİZlKİKİZ, 28,500 tonnes of this has been transferred by the government's decision. Especially since the manufacturer's debts have not been paid, there are now around 17 million manufacturers who have not yet been paid. The payment was stopped, the transfer stopped. As a result of the audit of the Treasury Undersecretary of the Department of Earth's Department, the audits, there's information that these reports are being prepared and are going in a positive direction, but I can't make it clear because I didn't get the report. It is likely that in the coming days, the positive response from here will be to transfer 21,500 tons from TMO to FISKOBIRLIK. Thus, from that day he is now borrowing 172 million loans, he has now paid off his debts through the land he has sold with the manufacturer's debts alone today, and has been able to become a healthy institution.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0028par0358	Thank you, Your Honor.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0027par0359	I don't believe in the need for today's research motion.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0028par0361	In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, the second word belongs to Republican MP Volcano Canalioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0029par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to set up a commission at the point of investigating the problems of nut products and nut producers. I salute the High Council. Now, my dear friends, our Republican People's Party MP, Mr. Denizhattin Karaahmetoglu, who just spoke, explained the importance of the nut, and said that even at weddings of the nut, he contributed to the debting point very importantly when he married the children of the citizens. Yes, that's very true. Now, friends, in the Black Sea, our people, our nut makers, when we marry their children, buy a house, buy an ornament, or borrow a loan, they say to the shopkeeper: "I will pay my debt in nuts, I will pay my debt in nut month, I will pay my debt in August." And then, when you look at it, you will not be given a note, you will not be given a check, you will only be able to trust the nut maker to a bond, and at this point, when you look at it, the nut maker will be owed a business. But, at the point where we're here today, unfortunately, I'm getting married, I'm getting my kid married, I'm buying a house, I'm going to pay my debt, lend me some money, and I'm going to pay it back in a nut month. It's not at the point and it can't say it. Of course, there are various aspects to that. What matters is the position of the tradesman and the position of the nut makers, dear friends. Nuts are a very important product in the Black Sea, a national product, and 75% of the world's nut production, 85 per cent of the trade in our country, the production of nuts is allowed by Law and Ministers' Council decree 2844, with more than 6 per cent of its slopes, and 750m in the third-class farmlands, in 13 counties, including Artvin, Rize, Tripoli, the Army, Sinop, Giresun, Samsun, Kastamonu, Zonguldak, Sakarya, Sakarya, and Bart, which are concentrated in one way. And in our country, 322,000 people produce nuts and 2 million people make their living on nuts. But, as far as we're concerned, at this point, where the nut is no longer worth anything, now, Mr. Comes to say it where it's worth money, but I'd like to give you some information at the point where it makes our people desperate. In 2006, Mr. Canikli said the nut was 1.6 TL before us, we paid about $5 for the nut. When we looked at it, it was supposed to be -- at that price of $5 -- it was supposed to be $10 today, but in 2011, the nut market was opened at $7, and in 2012, it was opened at $5.5, and in 2013, my dear friends. So, today, the nut market opened at a price that didn't reach $5. And what's more, our people with nuts -- in nut picking -- are looking to avoid going to nuts. Why? Because there's a lot of day-to-day prices. The manufacturers have to let their product go because they can't get the price they're paying for the day-to-day guy. Although nuts are very important in Tripoli, in the Black Sea, in our region, in the provinces that I have just counted, and are very important in the country's economy, the nut maker now remains at the point of collection, seeing as they are no longer producing nuts or as virtue in the hazelnut branch, and the family gathers and does not keep the daily. So, when we look at it, let's hand over one of the rights of the government here. As a result of our work and support, as a result of our statements, we've told the nut to be encouraged, supported, at the point of the motions of Ki Tripoli, Rize, the Army, Giresun, Artvin, our MPs. But, as a result, at the point where we're here, recently, the field-based incentives have been continued. However, the nut-based support also leads the manufacturer to lazyness, as I have just said, and it seems to him that it is ready money. So we say to the manufacturer: "Sister, you take the fish, stop fishing." What are you going to do, go fishing? Yet my dear friends are not like this. We're going to teach our people how to fish, not get it ready. What do we have to do about it? We've got to get the manufacturer's support. So according to the recluse, they need to be supported according to production, so that when we look at those nut manufacturers from this point, they can support themselves, go to the nut garden. Just don't go to the nut farm in August, don't go to the garden. We asked Mr. Mehdi Eker many times. Mr. Mehdi Eker said in Tripoli: "Yahu, brother, don't plant nuts, let alone nuts." What do you do? Now, dear friends, first of all, our Minister of Agriculture is not here, but I'd like to call from here: everyone in the region knows that nuts are not planted, nuts are planted. A Minister of Agriculture sows nuts, doesn't plant nuts, but the nuts are planted, my friends, that's how it is. Does our Minister of Agriculture know how many forks there are? Even if he's here. Now, he's looking at a tree, whether it's a sycamore or a pine or something. But nuts aren't that kind of tree, and nuts go through a lot of trouble from a field to a factory, folks. The technology is developing, but this event has come up called "patos" and after the pathos come out, the manufacturer doesn't mix the nuts and expect the sun to rise because the East Black Sea region is constantly raining. But now you're telling us that it doesn't rain very much in the Black Sea. No, friends, it rains every day in the Black Sea; it doesn't rain every day, it rains twice a week, my dear friends, my listening friends. In the Black Sea region, it does not rain every day; it rains two days a week; it rains from market to Thursday to market. So our number of sunny skies has been 35 days. In these 35 days, we're going to lay nuts on the sidewalks, on the blends, we're going to dry them, we're going to beat them with sticks, and then we're going to pick them off one by one, and we're going to put them in a bag, and we're going to put them in a cantar on our backs, and then we're going to pay $5.5 for the nut. Have mercy, my dear friends! Dear friends, have mercy! If we want to improve agriculture, we have to give the nut the necessary support. Dear lawmakers, ruling lawmakers, if you want to prevent the migration of the Black Sea, or rather the Black Sea provinces -- which I give you from Tripoli, according to TİK figures, is constantly migrating -- to reverse this migration, you have to cut down the nut fields, cut down the nut fields, build concrete there, not concrete the land; you have to support the agricultural producers; you have to promote the tea; you have to support animalism; you have to support it; you have to support it; you have to support it; you have to support it; you have to support animalism. My dear friends, you see, livestock is finished in the Black Sea, and no one deals in livestock anymore. Why? It's not worth anything. You go -- here we have people who know the Black Sea region -- at the top of the mountain, at the top of the mountain, at the altitude of 850 meters, or on the plateau, to look at his cow, to find pasture, to take the expensive fertilizer, to feed it, to feed it, to give it to its livestock, to plant fertilizer in its pasture, to strengthen it. My dear friends, please, we must give our support to places that produce nuts in the Black Sea. Also, Mr. Mehmet, our Giresun MP, said: "We have strengthened the FISKOBIRKIKİKİRKİKİRKİRKİKİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİKİMİMİMİMİKİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİFİMİMİMİMİFİMİMİMİFİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİRİMİMİRİMİMİMİMİRİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİKİKİ, also was wrong-KİMİMİMİMİKİMİMİKİKİKİMİMİMİMİMİMİKİKİMEDİMEDİKİMEDİMEDİMEDİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİMİKİMİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMEDİMİMİBİBİBİKİKİKİBİBİBİBİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİBİBİBİMİBİBİBİBİBİBİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMİMEDİBİBİBİRİBİŞİŞİİİİİİŞİŞİŞİŞİİİİİİİİİŞİŞİİİİİŞİBİKİBİBİBİBİBİBİBİBİBİKİBİKİBİBİRİRİRİRİRİBİBİRİŞBİBİRİRİRİ Who wasn't? It wasn't given to FISKOBIRLIK. If you had only given FISKOBIRLIK 100 trillion euros today, that institution would have remained stronger on its feet and not needed you. Isn't it a sin for our workers who work here in FISKOBIKİLKİLKİLKİ? You say to some 340 of them: "My brother, your work is done here, and we will take you from Giresun, and we will take you from Tripoli. Where do we give it? We will give him to Kastamon, and give him to Ziirt, and give him to Hakkari. For God's sake, these people are over 40 years old, and their children are in school, and their children go to middle school, and to high school. Any chance they'll get a job from now on? There's no way he's gonna get a job. Dear friends, to investigate this, please, all of you, I know, you don't decide without asking the master, but don't ask your master -- support our research proposal. My respects to all of you. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0030par0380	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. The second word against the Republican People's Party group proposal belongs to Army MP Mustafa Hamarat. Here you go, Mr. Hamarat.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0031par0384	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal for the agenda. I salute you all. The group proposal is intended to bring up a parliamentary research motion to identify the problems of nut producers and investigate solution proposals. As you know, the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is actually set, but every day, as usual, it is tried to be filled with group proposals. I'd like to start by saying that we object to the fact that the issue of nuts is actually used as a filling material.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0032par0386	It doesn't suit you to keep it simple. You're disrespecting the nut makers, citizen.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0031par0387	The head of the AK PARTY on nuts is very clear. Our government has never illegally wrestled on nuts, and it has gone on with courage. As strategy number one, we've put the manufacturer's protection ahead of us, and we've always been there for the manufacturer. When there was trouble here, we turned it on for nuts when there was no Earth crop office, and for three years, we bought the land crop office and balanced the market and didn't run over the manufacturer. Other than that, a decision on field-based support has been reached, and it has been implemented for three years, and it has been decided to be implemented for another three years. The money distributed in the Army alone this year is $238 million. So when we compare this to other investments, it's the most obvious evidence of how much we support and how much we care about the manufacturer, and the equivalent of this money across Turkey is 720 million TL, only distributed this year. In total, when you multiply this by 6 ▪, we can probably see clearly and clearly how much support we have with our manufacturer. Besides, we didn't get enough of it, so we discussed licensed storage. We've always been in consultation with the producers, the nut makers, the factory owners and the people who make the trade. As for nuts, it is necessary to store the literature. The pilot's application has begun, including fame and Düzce, and we have also activated licensed storage. We continued to supply fertilizer every year, and we'll continue. We've been there for the manufacturer, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've been there for him, we've Now, our congressman friend here said: why is there a field-based support, not a nut? Let it be given to the nut. When we compare the support given to the nut with field-based support, we see that field-based support is more equitable. Why? When it's nuts, the more nuts a person brings, the more you support the market, so you give what God gives, and you don't give what he doesn't. But here we give our full support -- whether it's nuts or not -- for the manufacturer to wait there, because he's making nuts in his homeland, because he's standing in his place -- to support him, that's what it's really about. There's another secret justice here, which is that in the coastal areas, the nut yields are higher and lower in the interiors, but since we're giving it evenly, the nut yields are more expensive. So field-based support really is a more reasonable, logical support, and our producer is pleased. For the first time this summer, I've been all over my constituency, the Army, and I haven't had a single question about nuts, because our producer is very pleased with our policy on nuts, and he continues to be satisfied, and they want us to continue this policy. The problem is the processing of nuts, the processing and adding value of nuts remains in Turkey. In this regard, we have supported them in renovating the machine and equipment of the nut factories, and with support for the 50 percent grants, the nut factories have renewed their infrastructure for production, renovated their machinery, and they continue to produce nuts -- up to the raw materials of the chocolate -- and we see that production is increasing every day. I'm saying that the sale of the nut in Turkey will trigger other sectors, and the added value will be a great contribution to staying in Turkey. We have a Chocolate Valley Project, with DOKA support. Anyway, when this project comes to life, our view of the nut will change completely. The Chocolate Valley Project was set aside in a very large area right next to the Army-Greesun Airport, and it is about to be implemented. The chocolate valley will be processed at the nut place and made into chocolate. This also means supporting the infrastructure of Black Sea tourism, which means producing handmade chocolate. The ultimate goal is to become a country that knows the value of nuts, evaluates its value, and works in its place, with the right policies of the AK PARTI. It's about nuts -- let me just say -- all the things that the mind, the science requires, the consultations put in front of us, are being done, none of them are being passed on, and they're going to continue to be done. I just got off the phone with a friend of mine who makes nuts, and I said, "There's a motion for nuts, what do you say?" How are you? He said to me, "I am standing up like the government, and I will say so." There's no conflict between us and the nut maker.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0033par0396	He's the nut dealer, the nut dealer you're talking to.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0031par0397	No, it's a nut maker, not a merchant.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0033par0398	He's a merchant, a merchant.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0031par0399	The merchant is the son of this land, and the maker is the son of the man and the son of the man.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0033par0400	I know I'm a child of a productive family. I guess you don't have a nut garden.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0031par0401	We all work for the country. I thank you again very much. With this motion, I give you all the respect for giving each of you an opportunity to share our feelings about nuts, our thoughts.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0034par0405	Thank you, Mr. Hamarat. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the number-one Department of Corrections (2/1086) does not meet in accordance with Article 37, under Article 37 of the Interior Charter, since it is not scheduled to meet on the basis of the First Amendment of the Name (2/1086) to Change Perception in the Society and to Rehabilitate and Rehabilitate the Prisoners, I would like to request that it be processed in accordance with Article 37. 10/10/2013 Yes, Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP as the bidder. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0035par0417	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion by my party and 50 MPs to change the name of the Department of Corrections, to change the Perception in the Community and to change the name of the Prisoners into the Centre for Forensic Rehab and Education. I salute your high council. My dear friends, before I came here, I wanted to present a prototype, an example of this, to the appreciation of the grand delegation and the public, to show that the name of prisons is not only nostalgia, but a reality. First of all, I'd like to point out to the public that when you look here, there's a separate world from these doors to this side, and there's another life outside the world. What is life here? On this side of these gates of iron and concrete, when the purpose of punishment, the execution of punishment, should actually have been admissible -- what the great criminal lawyer Faruk Erim Τ had said was that if you dig up the criminal, people will come out from under it -- we are faced with a concept that when you dig up the criminal, people will not come out from under it, a concept of punishment is brought before the people of Turkey. My dear friends, look, when you walk through this door, and there's a peephole about 15x10 times the size of it, and just below that, there's a door that's 30x15, where inmates and inmates have taken advantage of, and they've made contact with the outside world, and there's a peephole. Here, all the prisoners and prisoners executed, unfortunately, have all their natural needs, all their connections to life, through the door of this 30x15. From what I can tell from here, the most human needs -- I mean, what does that mean -- are the food needs, all other needs -- are intended to be provided through this door, through these peepholes. Those who have experienced it in the inner world, those who are imprisoned, those who are convicted of this execution, are being treated as predators in a sense, provided for by these holes. The current concept of prison is unfortunately wanted by the methods of the 1930s, and at the very moment, my dear friends are facing an actual situation that can only ensure the safety of the prison administration. Therefore, this is an interesting example of a system of iron and concrete that is more than rehabilitating criminals, rather than reforming criminals, destroying criminals, isolateing them from the community, and isolated them, but showing that they are faced with the real objective of ignoring them. When you go to their room -- look, my dear friends, there's a room fact here -- the rooms are unfortunately not even 10 square feet. After one enters here, other than a roll call in the morning and night eight hours, all contact with the outside world is being cut off, isolated, and in some sense wanted to be destroyed, my dear friends. What's more interesting is that there are 112 services or doctors available during working hours, and the chances of inmates and inmates getting sick are also taken away from them after hours; health care is not possible after hours. My dear friends, when these prisons were being built -- if you look at the numbers here, the systems in the wards, the numbers -- they were made for seven people. So a prison was built in accordance with the European Union standards. But at this point, unfortunately, the prisons that started with such a method were completed according to Turkish standards. What I mean to say is that there are 28 people left in the wards of seven, my dear friends. So we're looking at a prison with 27 people left, unfortunately, at the point where the start was well-intentioned by EU standards. There is another thing in prisons: Look, 70 years ago, a typewriter was used in prisons. Although Nazim Hikmet had typed his poems in prisons, unfortunately today we are faced with the fact that the inmates of prisons were deprived of a typewriter, a printer. I'd like to share another truth, my dear friends. We met with Mr. Balbay on Friday. We went with Mr. Köse. Unfortunately, the world has found the washing machine for a hundred years, perhaps for 200 years; there are no washing machines in Turkish prisons today, there are no topukmatics, there are........................ That's the kind of truth we're dealing with. Therefore, we must never forget that people lie in prisons, that they are human beings. I'm saying, beyond changing a name and altering perception, that this bill should be a start, a shepherd's fire, in order to show how those prisoners of fate look at the situation they're in in in the prisons of Turkey. So we have to change this perception, we have to change the execution system. I'm saying that we need to be involved in the purpose and purpose of reintegrating the prisoners and prisoners who are there in order to reform. The law hopes you'll support our offer, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0036par0431	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Ladies and gentlemen, when you speak on the stand, I strongly urge you not to bring different objects to the stand. Your speech on the stand is an emphasis on itself. I don't think you should need another object. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0037par0437	That's your opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0038par0438	Mr. President is finally getting involved with the congressman on the stand.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0037par0439	That's the President's opinion. He thinks so.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0039par0443	Now it's time for the speech of Corum MP Tutor Köse. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0040par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. President, we have to show them because the ruling party MPs don't have a problem like the prison issue, because they forgot about the people there, because they forgot about the prisons, Mr. President. That's why we're bringing in these doughnuts. I'll show you in a minute. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on behalf of myself on the proposal that the name of the criminal execution institution will be AREV and the name of the institution of rehabilitation and education. On this occasion, I salute you all. My dear friends, the goal of the law proposal is to bring the criminal execution institutions, which have been turned into a criminal training center in our country in recent years, or rather turned into a criminal training center, the human one, the human one, the human one, the human one, the human one, the human one, the one that has been destroyed, even human, the one that has been isolated from society and tried to forget to society, into the public's agenda once again, and in this sense, the first fire of the philosophy of execution and its purpose. In our country, penal institutions have also been a punishment by the physical conditions, by the number of employees, by the capacity of their wards, by 3-4 times their imprisonment and conviction, by air conditioning, by the ability of cells to see the sun, by the ability to treat it, by the Penal Code and by many practices that cannot be explained during the duration of this talk. The welcome beating is an example of them, the naked search is an example of them, the arbitrary disciplinary measures. Lawyers from the Society of Modern Lawyers have been in solitary confinement for 30 days because they refused to search naked. Moreover, our criminal execution system and the execution of political prisoners in particular have become an instrument of revenge against them. The state doesn't take revenge, lawmakers. The state needs to rehabilitate, rehabilitate, be able to, at least make the effort, show. The current system is the system of creating a new criminal from the person serving his sentence in prison. For example, a person entering the prison as a common thief can leave the prison as a pickpocket. A person entering a terrorist organization for aiding a terrorist organization is leaving prison as the director of a terrorist organization. Look, we're one of the most prominent countries in the world in terms of the return rate to prison for those who are released from prisons. These are about 40 percent in our country, the rate of return. In the developed countries, those rates are around 10 per cent. The goal is not to punish the people punished by the courts, but to rehabilitate them, to bring them into society as a good citizen. My dear friends, are these the circumstances? Is prison life as close as possible to the positive aspects of public life? Is the mind, the soul, and the body of the person in there protected? Now, I'm going to show you -- my president doesn't want to, but I'm going to, I'm going to. Look, this is the ventilation of a cell surrounded by 8 meters of walls and 8 square meters of cells. Let me just show my friends in the press that we're going to see in the second photo -- a watchtower, 24 hours open, and the food is given. It's not a door for food, it's a little eye. Is it possible to maintain mental and mental health in such an environment, mind and mental health? My friend from Artvin's MP told me that at the time when Mr. Prime Minister wrote his best novels and poems in his typewriters, his best examples. So, do these cells in prisons have any writing devices or computers at this time? They say they have computer rooms. They also have an hour's use of computers in computer rooms, so they can't even write their articles, yes. My dear friends, dear lawmakers, considering that everyone, all of us, is at risk for going to prison, we have to remember that life is going on for the people inside and that one day they're going back to life outside of prison. On this occasion, I wish you to vote positively for our proposal of the law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit01spe0041par0457	Thank you, Mr. Köse. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Members of parliament, the Commission for Public Economic Initiatives also has a membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office on Friday (November 8, 2013) are at 18 p.m. on Friday (November 8, 2013). I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. We're going to vote for members of the Republican People's Party Group, which are available in some commissions. Mersin MP Jesus Gök has been nominated for a free membership in the Justice Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Corum MP was nominated for a free membership in the Human Rights Review Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 40-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit02spe0041par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the part of the agenda's "General Discussion and Parliamentary Research" preconceptions. 5- Kars MP İstiye Birtane and 21 lawmakers propose opening parliamentary research to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problem of drugs in sports [[10/757]] Government? Here. I'm going to read the motions for a congressional investigation that we're about to discuss in a moment: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent months, doping cases in Turkish sports, and the penalties issued by international sports federations for our athletes in these cases have dramatically increased and also affected our country's prestige in sports. In many majors, especially athletics and weightlifters, our athletes have been subjected to drug-induced rights deprivation, and this growing problem has been widely in our sports media for nearly two months. In order to establish the reasons for the use of doping and drug-induced rights deprivation on the national scale, we demand to support the study of solutions to the doping problem, to open a full review of the doping problem in the sport that affects the future of our country's international prestige, as well as the future of our youth population, as to build public information and anti-doping law. 1) Osman Love Look [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Sivas]] 4) Akif Çağatay Sword [[Samsun]] [[Silver House]] [[İzmir]] 7) Ahmet Haldun Erturk [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Yalova]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yozgat]] [[Bartin]] [[Bolu]] 16) Omar Faruk Öz [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanrı]] [[Slap]] 22) Ahmet Erdal Feralan [[Nevşehir]] [[Nevşehir]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Ahmet Berat Çonkar [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Dull]] 31) Pelin Günş is Copper [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Denizli]] 34) Sevde Bayazut Runs [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Van]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Rize]] [[Erzincan]] 42) Oğuz Khan Koksal [[Fractured]] [[Fractured]] [[Antalya]] 45) Tulin Erkal Kara [[Scholarship]] 46) H. Hami Yıldırım [[Burdur]] [[Rize]] [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Bingöl]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] [[Aksaray]] [[İstanbul]] [[Bitlis]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Let's go.]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Karaman]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kayseri]] [[Kayseri]] 77) M. Mujahit Nuts [[Malatya]] [[Erzurum]] [[Amasya]] [[Niğde]] [[Tripoli]] 82) Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar [[Şanlıurfa]] 83) A. Sure Forward [[Şanlıurfa]] 84) Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Inconceived]] [[Paddles]] 88) Gökcen Özdoğan Enç [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adıyaman]] 91) Haci Bayram Türkoğlu [[Hatay]] 92) Efficient Mountaineer Scream [[Erzurum]] [[Çanrı]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Siirt]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 100) Heart Bekin Shahkulubey [[Mardin]] 101) Saint Sibel Gönul [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] Today, sports are a social phenomenon that brings different cultures and societies together, which plays an important role in strengthening social and social solidarity. Thus, all countries strive to improve sports on a social level and to succeed in international sporting competitions. Our country, which will host the 17th Mediterranean Games this year, is the most powerful candidate for 2020 Olympic games. During the last decade, many sports majors have received international degrees and Turkish sports has had its brightest period. In this respect, our government has made the largest investments in the history of the republic for sports and has allowed sports to develop on a social level. The problem of drugs, described as the cancer of sports in our country and the world as rapidly developing, has also grown to the same degree, causing many athletes' careers to end, but has also put many young athletes' health and futures at risk. Its location and importance in social life are becoming increasingly evident that drug use, especially in recent years, has become the biggest problem in our age, and has become a major concern for athletes in star and young age groups. In dealing with the problem of doping, described as the cancer of sports, all countries are doing their best. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) is the most competent international body in this context and is acting in collaboration with both the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and all international sports federations. We also have various initiatives in our country to ensure that the fight against doping is carried out in the most active way. Studies for re-acquired Turkey's Doping Centre have reached the final stage. However, the Anti-Doping Commission, established within our national Olympic Committee, also plays an active role in the process. Despite all these studies, the doping problem has never dropped from the public's agenda, and many famous athletes in many championships, particularly Olympic games, have received doping-related suspensions. Many famous athletes around the world have received drug-related punishments, lost the titles they won, and have ruined their country's reputation. Unfortunately, the problem with the cancer of sports has also attracted our athletes and many of our European and world champions have been sentenced to drug-related rights deprivation. Some of these athletes have had to say goodbye to their sports careers because of their punishments. The allegations that our top athletes, as well as our young and star-fighters, have applied to doping are expressed in sports public. In this context, doping is no longer just a problem that causes us to lose our champion athletes, and our youth has reached a level that threatens the future of our society. A full review of the doping problem, public information and support for solution proposals to this problem is seen as necessary for parliamentary research to strengthen the fight against doping on the legal ground, as well as for the future of our country's international prestige. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The passion for bodybuilding among young people is becoming increasingly common. According to studies, serious dangers have arisen with the interest of young people aged 18 to 25 in the past five years, despite their increased interest in this sport. It is known that young people who are interested in this sport quickly use hormone - filled drugs to have muscular bodies, and athletes sometimes provide them from gyms and sometimes street vendors. The drugs that destabilise the human body and inflate the muscles will soon cause organ failure. The last example of this situation is known as the victim of the 30 - year - old Hawk Irencin's doping drug known among athletes. It is no more than an attempt by the Ministry of Youth and Sports to rush an investigation into the Body Development Federation after this incident through the responsibility of the Ministry, who is responsible for the situation. The Department of Sports has moved to the public's agenda, but it has not been answered until now, with the request of the Ministry to address the issue, and what is even more sad is that the parties have been denied the questions we've been offering, as well as the reasons for the use of this disease, which has cost our young people their lives, as well as the measures that can be taken by the public. A large portion of sports federations have first gained autonomy and then independent status, but do not have the opening and control powers of the halls that will be opened throughout the country. The key is youth services and sports county offices. After reviewing 15/10/1999 and the Special Physical Education and Sports Facility Regulations, which are published in the Official Gazette 23847, it will be seen that all sports halls will be opened in our country under the relevant regulations and that its execution will be clearly established by the General Directorate of Sports, as well as by Article 31. Despite the fact that the only person responsible for the problem of illegal drug use in bodybuilding halls is not the federation but the youth services of the Sports General Directorate and the provincial organization, and the sports district and district managerships, so far there have been no necessary inspections of doping materials used randomly in sports halls. For the future of our country's sport and for the reputation of our country and athletes around the world, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 8) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Aydın]] [[Zonguldak]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Doping, the enemy of sports and athletes, has been very common to our country's athletes in recent years and has caused many of our athletes to be banned from competitions. In the 17th Mediterranean Games, some of our athletes were found doping and our athletes withdrew from the competition. It is important for our country's sport to be wiped clean, sports health, morality, and future. In order to investigate the reasons for drugging our athletes and to ensure the necessary efforts to prevent doping, we propose the opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and Civil Law. [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] 6) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 11) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Erzincan]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[40s.]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 22) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 23) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Gaziantep]] The use of banned substances or methods consciously or unconsciously by athletes is considered doping by the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Doping has appeared in almost every aspect of sports in our country in recent years, causing many athletes to receive medals or be excluded from competition. In the 17th Mediterranean Games of Mersin, some of our athletes withdrew from the competition for the cause of doping after checks. The presence of doping in sports organizations in our own home could put the next sports organization at risk. Doping practices also have a negative effect on human health. Doping is rapidly spreading among our country's athletes and threatening the health of our children. Among the known side effects of doping substances are the youth's regression, growth's stopping, girls' hair, development disorder, liver and kidney tumors, infertility, psychosis, extreme aggression. There have also been deaths related to doping substances. Instead of fighting drugs, ignoring them is the greatest danger to a society. Our athletes are in danger, sports culture is corrupt, and it's causing our country to suffer internationally. Meanwhile, the future of many of our talented young athletes is blacked out because of the doping. There's no ignoring drugs in the world, and athletes are not forgiven. Once the testicle was discovered as a national hero of the United States, Lance Armstrong, a legendary athlete who was a symbol of cancer by defeating brain cancer, was identified as a national hero of the U.S.A., the medals were awarded and investigations were conducted. In short, the doping is not covered. This should set an example for us in dealing with doping. In the case of trainers and others who have caused or helped athletes to use doping, deterrence should be increased by legal regulations. It is vital for our country's sports, athletes and society's moral values to determine the responsibilities and shortcomings of executives who do not have enough control over doping labs, executives who do not have enough control. It is incumbent upon us TBM members of the future generations to make sure that necessary measures are taken in this regard. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Parliament investigate the use of doping in our national teams, particularly the Halter national team, which we have provided on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and of the Interior Charter. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 2) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Amasya]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 12) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İzmir]] 14) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] In February, the 16 athletes of our Halter national team, under 23 years of age, went to Israel, and found a doping clause. In the 17th Mediterranean Olympic Games held in our country, eight of our weightlifters also found doping. Especially in recent years, it has been observed that doping has increased athletes. The fact that our country's athletes, representing national team status, are constantly showing us that there is a problem in this area. In all our national teams, especially weightlifters, it is important for our country's sports and world sports to look at our country. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the need to open parliamentary research, especially for athletes participating in international sports races, in order to determine measures to be taken by investigating the reasons why Turkish athletes use doping, as part of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey has recently increased, but most Turkish athletes who participate in international sports games have been identified as doping. This has given rise to the need for extensive research on the matter and has made effective measures inevitable. An investigation has been launched into the alleged drug use of doping on several athletes who have achieved significant athletic successes in athletics, Daraya Ayhan, weightlifter Halil Mulut and Sedat Artuç, and the allegations have been confirmed. In the same way, the Nevin Answer, which achieved significant success in the race, was also doped in tests. Aslı Çakır, who won the 2012 Olympics in London, was also alleged to have used doping. Mersin 17. Again. About 34 Turkish athletes participating in the Mediterranean Games have also been identified as doping. In addition to many other athletes, Ali Gürbuz (Ali Gürbuz), who won the 40pınar Oil Wrestling Competition, was also alleged to have used doping. Turkey is a country that has neglected sports and athletes for a long time. He doesn't have athletes growing up and growing up in many sports. In international competitions, the number of athletes is very low in both the field and the number of athletes. The doping of Turkey's first and good grades, which is a highly low participation in international sports games, has marred these achievements. In Turkey's 2020 Olympic Games, one of the major issues the Olympic Committee has been focusing on were doping scandals. The doping of Turkish athletes has damaged Turkey's 2020 Olympic candidacy and has even put Turkey at risk of being banned from international sports races. The fact that Turkey, which has no long history in international sports games, has been heard of by doping scandals in the races that Turkey has won has won, has provided irreparable disadvantages for Turkey's record in international sports. Without investments in sports and athletes, Turkey is expected to achieve success in international games, which leads athletes and growers to the wrong methods. Political power has to create the necessary infrastructure in sports, and it has to invest in the same direction by identifying the needs in this area. We expect that athletes are deprived of infrastructure. There are debates that they are under pressure, that they are forced to use doping under these pressures. It is also noted that increasing awards in sports tops also encourages the use of doping. While the allegations are in this direction, athletes do not focus on why they use doping, while the relevant institutions do not do a comprehensive research on what factors are effective in using doping. Given the rate of Turkish athletes using doping, Turkey has been shown not to follow the rules about antidoping. Therefore, considering the increase in drug use in athletes, we find it necessary to open a parliamentary investigation to determine new arrangements and measures to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The world media has made headlines of Turkish athletes' "diping" scandal. Many of our athletes have been banned from various European organisations. The number of athletes involved in doping scandals has exceeded 30. In six months, 90 athletes are reported to be doped. The two major football teams in the Super League Beşiktaş and Fenerbahçe are suspended from European Cups for one and two years on the basis of a fix, withdrawing from competitions due to 30 athletes in the Mediterranean Games we hosted, 8 weightlifters and 8 record athletes are doping, and we are now in a situation where the first phase of dozens of athletes in doping is positive and expected to result from samples B. Our participation in the World Athletics Championship in Moscow is at risk. The government's strict antidemocratic approach to democratic responses and the indiscriminate violence of security forces took place in Lauzan. In the assessment of the security criteria of the Olympic Candidate Cities (Olympics), athletes, spectators, and sports fans, the tour created the main agenda of its assessment of the Olympic Candidate, this picture has left the Turkish delegation with intense questions, terrorizing and worrying the delegates of the International Olympic Committee. Before the Mediterranean games, with a change in incentive regulations, increasing the number of gold 100 in the championships to 500, commercialising the sport and encouraging the athlete to doping, triggering a prize system that corrupts the athlete's morality. Because of the pressure of medals for athletes, we are a country that is overwhelmed by the public and institutions of international sports, under the scandal of doping. In such a situation, hosting the most prestigious sports organization, the Olympics, is controversial. According to a report by the Turkish Anti-Doping Council, 90 of the 648 athletes sampled in the first six months of 2013 were doped. The world-accessed doping danger limit was 1.5.2 per cent, while Turkey averaged 13.88 per cent, some of the branches (Athletics, weightlifters and so on). It's up to 45 percent. The two most respected football teams in our country are trying to defend themselves on charges of fraud. In the process, both the Ministry and the Turkish Football Association left them alone and in their fate, without any financial, spiritual, legal support. This is another dimension of the lack of Turkish sports. The process, which could result in Turkey's banning the world from various organisations across Europe, has also undermined the trust of our citizens, young people, sports fans, athletes, and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. It is public interest to know what steps are taken, what steps are taken to restore that trust. In order to determine whether those responsible for these scandals were not punished, whether there would be any changes in the scandals, the reasons why Turkish sports would be dragged into the doping swamp, the failure of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the events of the Turkish sport, the fact that it was intended to fight the doping, we propose and propose that the Constitution be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 4) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 13) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] 22) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Tunceli]] 24) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In violation of the spirit of sports, as in the entire world, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with the grounds provided by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the reasons why our country athletes use doping in different sports, in order to determine solution proposals, and to ensure that access to doping substances in our country should be taken in order to prevent drug transport. 09/10/2013 [[Mersin]] [[Kayseri]] 3) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 4) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Elizipt]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kütahya]] 15) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Antalya]] [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] 23) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] Doping is defined as the conscious or unconscious use of substances or methods banned by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for the purpose of increasing the athlete's physical and mental performance during the competition. Doping is contrary to sports ethics, both because it prepares grounds for unfair competition and causes short and long-term health failure and even possible death risks. For these reasons, it has been banned by international sports organizations such as doping WADA, the International Olympic Committee (IOC), FIFA, UEFA, FIBA, IAAF. Almost all doping substances cause short or long-term side effects in the body. The most commonly used male hormones by athletes have been known to cause heart attacks, good and malignant tumors, liver dysfunction, infertility. Some athletes who use these substances are known to have died from diseases caused by the use of these substances during their sports lives or after quitting sports. The protocol signed by the Sports General Directorate (SGM) on 24 May 2011 was established in June 2011 to establish the main principles of the co-operation to institutionalise the fight against drugs in Turkey. Anti-doping activities began as of October 14, 2011. At a meeting of the WADA Founders' Council on 20 November 2011 in Montreal, Canada, Turkey was listed as a member of the world's anti-doping laws. But the fact is that doping has shaken the sport from its foundation along with the rest of the world. Why do you do drugs? In the name of a goal, a goal... What is the purpose? What is this target? Money, fame, fame, all of it! So success, medal, record... First of all, we know that doping is just as far away from us as a pharmacy in Turkey. According to World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) statistics, all sports have proved the ease of access to drugs used in our country when the doping rate was 1.05 per cent of the doping average. Turkey has a system of awards that gives its champions thousands of gold to get international degrees in sports. We need to revive the spirit of the struggle, not the gain. First of all, there has to be a law against doping. We lost 2020 in the finals. We learned a lot when we lost 2020. We need to raise elite athletes before we get into an international sports organization. The sport we do in Fair Play should be clean. We need to destroy both the fix and the doping from within our sport. Because doping and cheating are like dynamite at the bottom of a sport. Those who do so must be banned from sports for life, and they must be severely punished. We need to instill the Olympic spirit into the athletes we're going to grow in every aspect of the sport from childhood. The most effective way to deal with drugs and fix is through the Olympic spirit. Even foreign athletes say they can easily get drugs from our country. The important thing is to prevent access to the doping. When they encourage drugs, they need to give up knowing that it will be sanctioned in the Turkish Penal Code when they supply drugs, so what's important is that they can get sanctions for the sellers or suppliers. If access to doping substances is blocked by law, Turkey is no longer a doping paradise. And then there's the group that used to coach and now sells energy products and so-called vitamin pills. These people, especially in athletics, have crossed the edges of all athletes who have been doping in recent years, but the sports agency still keeps them in the system. Turkey would not have become the world's most notorious country if it had gone over the doping as far as travel events have gone on. It is important to establish a parliamentary research commission on this matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to recent doping events in Turkish sports, dozens of national athletes -- particularly athletic and weightlifting sports -- have been doped -- brought into question that their laws in Turkey are not sufficient. We demand the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter 98 and 105, in order for the investigation of the doping events in Turkish sports and the efforts necessary to prevent the doping of athletes. [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Elizipt]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] 10) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 12) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Doping is described as being used consciously or unconsciously by athletes by the international Olympic Committee (IOC). To direct or assist athletes to use such substances or methods is contrary to sports morality and is considered a drug-related crime. Athletes and others are responsible for knowing what is an antidoping violation and what methods are in the banned substances list. It is the personal responsibility of every athlete not to take a banned substance into his body, and athletes are personally responsible for the presence of any prohibited substance or related metabolism or symptoms in their bodies. Doping is also forbidden to protect athletes from the unfair advantages they will receive by using banned substances and methods to improve their performance, and from side effects that may result from certain substances and methods. Doping is not only a problem of morality and health but also a problem of legal sanctions. Many drugs, such as the Anabolicans, are forbidden to use in sports except for medical purposes. Why does an athlete use doping? In the Olympics, this question was asked to an athlete, and immediately after making me a Olympic champion, I can use it without thinking about a drug that only I know will cause my death. Turkish sports before the Mediterranean Games, especially from June 20th to 30th 2013, were shaken by the doping scandal. Eight of our weightlifters and eight record athletes were doping, including our gold medalist at the 2010 World and 2011 European Weightlifting Championship. Doping athletes have also been cut from the Mediterranean Games staff. The rapid increase in the number of doped athletes in Turkey has resulted in the Guardian's chances of hosting 2020 Olympic games, which led to a severe impact due to the widespread doping scandal. In this industry, where there is great money and rewards, we will fight the hard way, and we will say, "All the way to win is fair." In the first six months of 2013, a total of 648 samples were sent to Athens and Cologne labs, with a total of 90 samples positive for athletics. This means that one of the 14 percent or about 7 athletes is doping. The use of drugs or banned substances is an important subject to be taken seriously in our country, where sports is popular and common. Elite (national team level) athletes are seriously monitored during the competition or by external federations or the Olympic Committee. However, a significant number of amateur licenses and athletes who participate in activities in sports halls use these banned drugs, consciously or unconsciously, without supervision. These kinds of drugs can be easily supplied without prescriptions, and illegal drug entry from abroad should be a priority on this issue. Education studies on this issue, such as the Federations, the Olympic Committee, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, will also contribute seriously to the solution. For reasons stated above, we demand the opening of Parliamental examinations of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the doping events in Turkish sports and the activities necessary to prevent the doping of athletes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the study of the use of doping substances used in the body development sport, which we have provided on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and of the Civil Code, we propose that Parliament be opened. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Tekirdağ]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] [[Zonguldak]] [[Aydın]] 7) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 8) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[Erzincan]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] The 30 - year - old Hawk Irencin, who is a bodybuilder, died after taking the drug known as the "Dinamit" drug known among athletes. It has been voiced to the press by its family from the sports club, where it has no tags, no recipes, no cures, and is also connected to it. Parliamental research is required because the sport of bodybuilding, which has an important place in our country, has not been affected negatively, no other deaths have been committed, and the drugs have been wiped out of the country's sport. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As we look at the country's sport, there have been alarming developments in doping in recent years. In particular, drug scandals in sports over the past decade have shown that this event is no longer an individual and marginal problem, but has reached a completely organised dimension. This problem targets high-level athletes who lead their lives through sports. Although sports have not achieved much success in our country, the number of athletes who are doping appears to be growing. In November of last year's European 23-year-old Weightlifter Championship in Israel, Hasan Akkuş, president of the Halter Federation of the period, had to resign to Cologne to test the specimens of all athletes, as all 16 samples were doped out in response to the tests of 5 Turkish athletes. In addition, recently our Olympic champion athlete, Ayşe Çakır Alptekin and the fifth Olympic athlete and European champion Nevin Respire have been announced that the Mediterranean Games, which will be held in Mersin, will be held in June, will not be included in the national team. It is also known that drugging in sports, taking someone else's labor, cheating people, endangering their health, and setting a bad example for future generations, reduces their life span by about 20 years, according to research. In addition, the international Olympic Committee's view of doping is known, while drugging the Olympic champion and European champions and trying to close this event have negative consequences for our country, which is running for the Olympics. For the future of our country's sport and for the reputation of our country and athletes around the world, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Institution. 08/05/2013 [[İzmir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 8) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] 11) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Antalya]] [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 21) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] 23) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, I would like to submit and request that Parliamental research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and TBM Institution of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the negative effects of drug use on Turkish sports. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] [[Inconceived]] [[Aydın]] [[Slap]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] 13) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 17) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] [[Lug]] [[İstanbul]] Doping is described as being used consciously or unconsciously by athletes by the international Olympic Committee (IOC). To direct or assist athletes to use such substances or methods is contrary to sports morality and is considered a drug-related crime. The main reason the drug is banned is because it violates the basic principles of sports. Doping is also forbidden to protect athletes from the unfair advantages they will receive by using banned substances and methods to improve their performance, and from side effects that may result from certain substances and methods. Doping is not only a problem of morality and health but also a problem of legal sanctions. Therefore, many drugs are forbidden to use in sports except for medical purposes. Doping control is designed to protect athletes' rights for an honest competition and help promote the prevalence of unmedicated amateurs and professional sports. Doping control includes the selection of athletes, the collection of urine samples, analysis and interpretation of results. The athlete's choice for doping control is held in competitions or work camps. Out-of-competitive doping sample purchases are carried out during the year by a pre-warning warning or without warning. It's even found in simple medicines taken from doping pharmacies. Most banned drugs that improve athletes' performance are provided abroad. Most of these drugs are sold illegally in the country. In our country, drug use among athletes has increased in recent years. A study has detected doping in 55 athletes in our country over the past few months. In our country, even 15-year-olds have started doping. Our 16 athletes, who will compete in weightlifters and athletics at the latest Mediterranean games, were cut at the last minute due to the use of doping. Previously, 21 athletes from the Halter National Team and 18 athletes in athletics were banned from use. Examples of 648 athletes were examined by the Turkish National Olympic Committee's Anti-Doping Commission in 2013, and more than one or more banned substances have been detected in 90 athletes. This survey by the committee showed that the world's doped athletes were 1.5 per cent, while in Turkey it was reported to be approaching 15 per cent. It is enough to reveal the point our country has come to in the matter of doping. Turkish sports have suffered major damage due to drug use. The use of doping in our country must be found to be due to rewards for athletes who are successful or for other reasons. Therefore, a parliamentary research commission will be established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution (TBM) on the study of the negative effects of drug use on Turkish sports. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The use of doping in our country has increased greatly in recent years. The discovery of the use of doping of successful athletes who competed in international sporting events reveals enough of the seriousness of the issue. In order to address the situation immediately and to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the reasons that drive athletes to use doping, we propose and propose the need for parliamentary research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and Civil Law. The 30 - year - old Sahin Irencin, a bodybuilder, was the victim of a doping drug known among athletes. Having taken the drug, the soma had collapsed and the internal organs had failed to recover despite all the interference at the hospital where the Hawk Irencin was removed. After the death of the falcon irencin, the debate over the doping was rekindled. The veracity of the doping problem has finally come to light, once again, because of the drug cases revealed in athletics. Doping, as it is known, is defined as taking items banned by the Olympic Committee in order to increase the mental, physical success of an athlete during the competition. Taking stimulants to provide superior action and energy in the body is one of the most important methods that athletes have used in decades. It is known that not only athletes but also race animals are also being doped to increase their strength and resistance. It's dangerous to deliberately use or to drug animals with stimuli or artificially resistant substances. The use of drugs like this is illegal in our country as it is in the entire sports world. Despite all prohibitions, however, doping has been known to be especially applied for by bicycle racers, weightlifters, athletes and football players. Competitive athletes use doping in secret because it gives them extraordinary power in encounters. Doping causes fatal effects, as well as physiological wear-off. Doping on racehorses has killed many horses. According to the rules of horse racing, doping is prohibited. Recently, the sports community has been rife with doping scandals. The number of athletes identified as doping in Turkey is increasing rapidly. According to the Turkish National Olympic Committee for Anti-Doping; In the first six months of 2013, a total of 90 samples were positive, including 45 of them in 648 samples sent to Athens and Cologne labs, while the WADA acretification of the Hacettepe lab was expected. That's 14 percent, or about one of the 7 athletes is doping. In WADA statistics, the worldwide sample and positive detection rate vary according to sports, but the average of all sports is between 0 per cent and 3 per cent, with an average of 1.05 per cent. So the fact that the world's doping athletes are 1.5 per cent and Turkey is 15 per cent closer to the fact that there are 10 times more doping athletes than the world average in Turkey. In particular, before the Mediterranean Games from June 20th to 30th 2013, the sports community was shaken by a doping scandal. The Olympics were on the podium in the World and European Championships, including eight weightlifters and eight record athletes, including Mete Baziy, who won the gold medal at the 2010 World and 2011 European Weightlifting Championships. After winning Turkey the first gold medal in athletics at the Olympics, Asli Çakır Alptekin and European champion Nevin Responsor, they were ironically named after Esref Apak, whose names were partially unexplained, as well as the doping outputs of athletes in front of him in the 2004 Athens Games. A rapid increase in the number of doped athletes in Turkey; the chances of the Guardian newspaper hosting 2020 Olympic games were gravely hit due to the widespread doping scandal. The 2020 Olympic games that were held later confirmed by the placing of the candidate cities on the rope by Tokyo. As a result, it is imperative that a parliamentary survey be opened to determine new regulations and measures for drug use. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The story of our country's success in almost every field in recent years, its transformation, its transformation, is undoubtedly reflected in sports. The use of illicit substances, which have recently become a bleeding wound in Turkish sports, must be taken concrete and systematic steps in drug use. In order to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating drug incidents that have become a serious problem in the national area, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] 2) Muhammad Bilal Macit [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ahmet Haldun Erturk [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Siirt]] [[Balıkesir]] 9) Akif Çağatay Sword [[Samsun]] 10) Mehmet Vecdi Gönul [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ahmet Tofik Long [[Mersin]] [[Let's go.]] [[Paddles]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Siirt]] 18) Oğuz Khan Koksal [[Fractured]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Dull]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Osmaniye]] The story of our country's success in almost every field in recent years, its transformation, its transformation, is undoubtedly reflected in sports. Over the past 11 years, major investments have been made in Turkish sports, athletes, young people. Hundreds of modern facilities have been built, many international organisations have been successfully carried out. The biggest problem we face with the growing importance of social life is the use of doping, or banned substances. Doping, called the cancer of our sport, causes great damage to both our sports and athletes. It endangers the health and future of many of our athletes. Forbidden substances can cause the careers of our athletes to end. The use of illicit substances, which have recently become a bleeding wound in Turkish sports, must be taken concrete and systematic steps in drug use. There are many national and international organisations that are actively involved in doping. Turkey is now in the field of health and sports, with advanced opportunities and infrastructure beyond compare with its former. WADA -- the World Anti-Doping Agency, which is the world's roof of doping -- continues its scientific activities in an active and current way in order to make sports cleaner and fairer. In our country, the Anti-Doping Commission (DMK), which operates under the national Olympic Committee, was established in June 2011 after the protocol signed by the Sports General Directorate (SGM) on 24 May 2011 to establish the basic principles of its co-operation to institutionalise the fight against doping. Despite all efforts and organizations, I'm afraid doping is not off the agenda of our sports public. Many athletes in our country and around the world have come up with the use of doping, which has brought up many punishments. Punishments in this regard have not only damaged individuals, but also the image of the countries in which they are connected. In order for the spirit of the Olympics and the phenomenon of the Fair playbook to penetrate all areas of the sport, the fight against doping will not only be done through tests or punishments but through preventive measures and awareness studies. The prestige of our country internationally and the need for parliamentary research to be opened in the sport that affects the health and future of our young population in order to examine, investigate, and take necessary measures for public awareness. Members of Parliament, İstanbul MP Osman Yüztın Bak and 104 MPs (10/753), İzmir MP Erdal Aksınger and 25 MPs (10/754), Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı and 23 MPs (10/755), Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar and 21 MPs (10/756), Kars MP Elıtane and 21 MPs (10/753), İstanbul MP Erdoğan Ürtın and 23 MPs (10/758), Mersin MP Ali Öz (10/759), İstanbul MP (10/759), İzmir MP Litfi Baydar and 21 MPs (10/756), Kars MP Birtere and 21 MPs (10/757), İstanbul MP Erdal Akdar (10/7574), İstanbul MP İstın and 23 MPs (10/758), Mersin MP (10/755), İstanbul MP İsultın MP İç and 23 MPs (10/755) (10/759)).
tbmm-2013-11-05sit02spe0042par0882	Mr. President, the government will be here in two minutes. There's been a car accident. We demand a recess.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit02spe0041par0883	Okay.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit02spe0043par0884	There's a minister here.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit02spe0041par0885	Since the first speaker was Minister of Youth and Sports... Looks like there's been a traffic accident on the way and let's take a ten-minute break, lawmakers.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0041par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 12th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We are starting a meeting of motions for a parliamentary investigation to be launched in order to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the problem of doping in Turkish sports in recent years. Government? He's in position. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government, the political party groups and the first signator in the motions, or to another signator, in order to determine whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. Now, I read the names of the following members: Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç on behalf of the government; Engin Özkoc on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; Demir Çelik on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Mus MP; Ali Uzırmak on behalf of the Milliyetist Action Party Group; Aydın MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Osman İstın Bak on behalf of Osman Bak, İstanbul MP. Örtütfi Baydar, Aydın MP (10/753) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, Republican MP (10/754) Ali Öz, Mersin MP; (10/760) Lütfu Türkkan, Kosin MP; (10/763) Metin Lütfi Baydar, Aydın MP; (10/758) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP; (10/759) Ali Öz, Mersin MP; (10/760) Lütfu Türkkan, Koseli MP; (10/763) Meslutmaroğlu, İstanbul MP; (10/763). Now, for the government's sake, the Minister of Youth and Sports is in Suat Kılıç. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0044par0011	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As you know from our President's presentations earlier, a research commission has been requested under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate and determine the measures needed to be taken. Many of our MPs have a request for that effect. Four of the four political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly have demands for this effect. So it is clear without hesitation that all political parties agree that the problem is one of the major problems of Turkish sports. So what we're going to focus on and talk about is essentially a problem that Turkish politics and all of our political parties agree on. So in the conclusion of the talks in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it is our basic desire and wish that the commission will investigate the issue in detail, reach healthy results, and move from here to Turkey to create a road map to the Turkish sport on this problem head. There is a research commission established in the previous years, headed by Ankara MP Haluk İpek. It's about sports again. The subtitle is the study of violence in sports and allegations of fraud, speculation about joint betting. This commission, led by Haluk Silk, has carried out a very long-term study, has achieved very healthy results, has been heard all sides; eventually a very technical report based on scientific analysis has been presented, and Turkish sports today continues to take advantage of a piece of the commission's work. In this direction, I would like to express our desire once again: it is our basic desire that the shadow of doping be established by a research commission that will allow for permanent removal of our sport world and that the report that will be the product of this research commission will be a form of a road map document in sports. What's doping? Professor Rüğ Güner of Ankara University professors sitting on my left. According to his description, I would like to share with you what doping is and what is doping in the single sentence according to the general definition of sports: (It is not easy to create such a short and clear definition of material or methods that are banned by the International Olympic Committee, which is capable of increasing performance and endangering athlete's health.) In the first stage of the definition, the expression "sporter's health" and "doping" have been described as a banned substance that leaves poison and lethal effects. What's doping done? It's basically public knowledge, but I'd like to share them with you in terms of a healthy way to get them to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is, in fact, five articles: Why do you doping? Increased athletic performance. Replicating the athlete's practice frequency. The prevention of athletic injuries, the increase of the athlete's resistance during training. Resolving excitement and anxiety. Eliminating the excitement and anxiety of an event where the athlete will try a record or compete with his number-one competitors. I mean, it's kind of like a dare shot, you know, if you know what I mean. The other is: to cheer up the competition. Five basics. There's nothing acceptable about any of them, none of them tangible, any of which is recommended to the athlete. Competitive morale: The athlete will already be in a high mood as he enters the competition; he will already receive from his own backward sports career, training discipline, training and health monitoring charts, dietary rhythm, psychologist, mentor, coach, club, federation. The athlete will not take the high spirit for the competition from the methods called poison. In general, the damage and effects of drug use: let's put aside the general and express the general: Doping is an unwavering poison. Good doping brings out deadly effects over time, bad doping immediately reveals its deadly effects, but without hesitation, doping is a poison. Despite all the information, despite the efforts of awareness, despite the training programs, despite the attempts and suggestions of federations, clubs, trainers to prevent doping, unfortunately, it's a poison that the athlete has not completely abandoned yet. What are the effects of this poison? I'm sorting out matter again, in terms of healthy entry into Turkey's Grand National Assembly reports: Cardiac arrhythmia, heart growth, heart attack. Good or malignant tumor formation. Internal organ disorders, like liver and kidney. Infertility. Face and body hair. Sound thickening. Acneiform lesions on the face and body. Aggression or depression. Special disturbances with women, and, again, personal disturbances with men. Brain edema and damage. Blood clotting factor disorders. Permanent effects, negative effects, of course. Perpetual negative effects on the liver. Perpetual negative effects on the kidneys. Deadly reactions from heart attack to death. It's obvious, and unfortunately, it's common knowledge. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you statistics on athletes who have violated drugs from several countries. Unfortunately, doping as a poison doesn't just threaten Turkish sports. Doping is the World Anti-Doping Agency, the World Anti-Doping Agency, which has been established within the IOC, and again, one of the main issues on the IOC's main fight agenda is the IOC. WADA is also trying to prevent the use of banned substances consciously or unconsciously by athletes. There's also a biological passport adventure created for this purpose. That's a different, technical issue, and I don't want to go into too many details. From the past years, samples and results of all blood and urine samples of the athlete have been processed into his biological passport, where athletes are constantly followed by the old database of his biological passport in relation to the blood and urine analysis results of new specimens. Some of our athletes who have recently won major medals in international competitions are not related to their recent medals. The allegations of 2010, 2009, and lab analysis results are unfortunately involved, but there are also several different national athletes who lost their medals in 2004, 2005, 2006. In 2011, I'd like to share with you the number of athletes who violated drugs in some countries in a brief, brief way. The 2011 data in Germany: 147 in France, 309 in Italy, 169 in Italy, 80 in the United States, 143 in Spain and 28 infringements in China are officially registered. Again, the country does not want to go into very negative and specific examples, but it is useful to share some dramatic figures with you: a dramatic fact in WADA and IOC, where six of the best eight-degree athletes in the world later used banned substances. A dramatic example is that in 100 metres of men, from eight of the world's top athletes, six of the athletes with 8 degrees degree degrees, there is a banned substance. It is also evident that athletes who have achieved great success worldwide have been subjected to laboratory tests, which were taken years later or later before or after that competition, and are preserved in laboratory conditions. Tyson Gay, Asafa Powell in athletics, these are the most recent examples you know, and Armstrong, the world bike champion, is one of those examples. These are the athletes who were asked to return their medals. Unfortunately, the use of doping in sports majors that require momentary individual performance is becoming dense. Athletics is one of them, one of the first. The lift is another one of the top majors. Another is a bicycle, as I just gave you in the Armstrong example. There's a long-term performance involved. In the context of samples collected in 2012, there are a total of 8,490 controls conducted in the United States in 2012, compared to the number of banned substances taken from samples. In 374 of the 8,490 samples, banned substances were detected -- since it was the year of 2012, data is healthy, full-year evaluation is possible -- the rate is 3.22%; the proportion of banned athletes in the United States is 3.22%. From January 1st to December 31st, 2012, the sample was taken in our country, 2,233, the sample was identified, the banned sample was 30, and the ratio was 1.34 percent. 3.22 in the United States; 1,34 in Turkey as of 2012. We're not going to be happy looking at this ratio, we need to act like we don't deserve to be happy unless it resets, because forbidden substances are interventions in the human body that are contrary to creation, which aims to make a person into a being far beyond their physical performance. I just told you why these interferences are being done. There are distinct negative effects on women, there are distinct negative effects on men, but ultimately there are clear, obvious discrepancies to the human body. In Turkey, we read a lot of doping news in 2013. I'd like to thank our MPs for the motion to set up a commission to investigate the drug cases. Yes, we continue our fight as Ministry, we continue our fight as Sports General Directorate, we continue our fight under the roof of the Turkey Doping Control Centre, which we have established within Hacettepe, we continue our fight against forbidden substances with the Turkish National Olympic Committee and the IOC liaisons. However, seeing that this determination is addressed on the floor of Parliament by an approach that unites all political parties will be a factor that will make our job easier, if you will. Therefore, I express my gratitude to our motion-makers. We read a lot of doping news in 2013 in Turkey, we read a lot of doping news in 2012 in Turkey, and we read a lot of doping news in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I clearly share with you that our government today has a commitment to the fact that doping is a poison. Our approach is zero tolerance, zero tolerance. We're gonna keep this fight going until we don't leave a single-doping athlete. Federation will answer to the federation, club will answer to the club, coach will answer to the coach, athlete will answer to the Federation. In the interim, anyone who smuggles the banned substance into the country and brings it to the athlete illegally, each will pay for it in the harshest way, both within the special law and the general law code, and will pay the price. The number of specimens caught in 2012-2013 is due to our sensitivity to fighting doping. We activated the Anti-Doping Commission in 2011. The head of the Anti-Doping Commission is Professor Rüğüt Güner. He's in our company right now monitoring these negotiations with us. The team that went to get samples from the campsite, the federation, the club, or the athlete in advance. We will arrive at this hour, so be prepared for them. It's all a sudden inspection. I don't want to be unfair by saying "pression," and I don't want to take it to a different point by saying "pression" -- sudden inspections; unannounced and sudden inspections. I'm going to share with you the numbers that we've come up with on unannounced and sudden inspections, the valued lawmakers: The sample that the Anti-Doping Commission was able to obtain in 2011 because it was newly established. You have to write that down. In 2011, the total sample period for all majors throughout the year was 71. In 2012, the same Commission issued a sample 447 year-long, unannounced, over-the-year inspections. By today of 2013, as of November 5th, yesterday, the Doping Anti-Doping Commission received a sample in ten months, 1.077. Dear lawmakers, the sample was taken in 2011, not even as much as the change in the 2013 sample. It's a clear sign of your determination to fight because we don't want to leave Turkish sports and athlete in the shadow of such a stain. We don't want to condemn success and failure to the effects of doping. We are determined to fight, this relentless struggle will continue until the end, and the samples will be taken unawares. In the last three months, two Federation heads in Turkey have left their post, not four or five months, but the chairman of the Halter Federation is a little older. Thirty-two athletes were banned from all competitions for two years in their weightlifting division, and the president of the Halter Federation was forced to resign. If the number of athletes hasn't changed in athletics, the number I know has been banned from the competition for two years, and the president of the Athletics Federation has also been forced to leave with its boards. We are determined that this struggle will continue relentlessly from now on. In the end, of course, there are some happy developments. In June 2013, during our contests at the Mediterranean Games on June 20th and 30th, Turkish national teams won for the first time in the history of the Mediterranean Games, where we had a 4th year before, the Mediterranean Games won its 2nd place in Mersin, for the first time in our history. Here, the number of gold medals that were 20 in the previous Mediterranean Games reached 47. Before the total number of medals reached the country's second place, with the impact of the strict control of the Anti-Doping Commission, the valued MPs left a problem-free Mediterranean Games behind in an organization we hosted. I'd like to share with you a few promising developments in the future. Turkey's Doping Control Centre, which we have established at Hacettepe University, has completed its establishment. WADA began to take samples and share the results with WADA. In a short period of time, international concessions will be provided, and then all doping samples of Turkish athletes, caravans, and national teams will be available in Turkey, even in the service of the Central Environment countries in Hacettepe. Another, we've decided to meet with Hacettepe University for sports science. We will implement an investment at the Hacettepe University of Beytepe campus under the name of the Olympic Sports Institute. From what our athletes need to feed on here, all education will be performed on a scientific and healthy ground where sports meets science, from training discipline to psychological support, from the fight against doping; policies will not be formed between the two lips of the minister or general manager or general manager; sports methods of success with scientists will be developed based on permanent, scientific basis, and our convoys will be ready for the 2016 and 2020 Olympics. I thank you from the bottom of my heart, that our work may be a blessing.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0045par0062	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Engin Özkoc is a Sakarya MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0046par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the motion to investigate. I salute you all with respect and love. Dear friends, I listened carefully to the Minister's speech. Between 2011-2012-2013, we are approaching the doping with zero tolerance. I don't want to start talking without having touched the words. You know -- this government -- we're going to reduce the problems with our neighbors to zero. We've got no neighbors at the point where we came in today.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0047par0069	It must've been just a problem.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0046par0070	Today, Mr. Minister, we're going to give zero tolerance in the doping. If he says that, then the point where the doping comes from in the sport in Turkey is scary. I'd like to start by bringing this to your attention. Dear lawmakers, sports and sporting activities are among the most humane activities ever brought on by the thrill of peace, brotherhood, friendship, and competition. Sports also contain many human and moral principles, such as the spirit of fair play, called love, cooperation, injustice to one another, making it difficult for competition, deception, and so on. Therefore, from early times to present, the basis for what we call "sportative competition" is the principles of peace, friendship, honesty, morality, and health. There will be no positive consequences for mixing violence and politics with sports, but it also prevents sporting success, alienates the masses from sports, separates them from the sport and acts of hostility. Where, though, do examples of all this appear? Unfortunately, in our country. When we really set out, we have recently seen the shadow of politics in sports, such as volleyball, weightlifting, basketball, athletics, and other branches, especially football, in our country. The approach to liberalisation, which was brought to life in hopes of providing the expected and desirable exit in Turkish sports, has been abandoned by political understanding, and today federations in various sports have become politically motivated by the AKP's government's intervention in the general councils and candidate dictated. The situation was out of control until the Prime Minister reached the point where the sports club interfered with which president to elect. Mr. Prime Minister has blacked out enough to reach the point where one of the biggest clubs in Turkey, elected by a major vote, will be the president of one of the largest clubs, which will prevent the election promises from being fulfilled. Congressmans, the government has brought politics into the sport, isolated sports fans as anti-responsors, alienated people from sports, frightened them with police. The 17th Mediterranean Games held in Mersin were in a sense the pinnacle and the most concrete indicator of political and commercialisation of sports. Adherent media, adjunct justice, a fellow businessman, a fellow bureaucrat, adjunct university and so on has dominated the sport. Although we have the largest caravan of athletes in the Mersin Mediterranean Games, only one of us has been able to break the Mediterranean Games record.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0048par0074	The doped one carried the flag.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0046par0075	Yeah. The Prime Minister is afraid of protests, 10,000 people have been taken to the 25,000-strong stadium for the opening ceremony. More than half of the stadium has been left empty, no public tickets sold. Tickets were sold by the AKP organisation and by the mufti. Later, only 122,000 people attended 12 days of competitions, where the price of tickets was sold for only 1 TL, where the public had seen this disgrace, who had not participated in the competition. This political and sporting scandal has risen to the extreme with the doping of our own athletes in an international organization in our own country. Some of our athletes had to withdraw from the games because they were doped up in pre-match checks. However, the doping scandal at the Mediterranean Games was neither the first nor the last. Since 2004, the ever-growing doping that has been increasing and gaining speed in 2013 has surrounded Turkish sports like a contagious plague. Turkey adopted the Anti-Doping Convention, which was signed between its European Council member states, and later pledged to attract the anti-Doping system in sports to World Anti-Doping Agency standards, and organised internal law accordingly. However, the Minister of Youth and Sports and the Ministry's top executives seem indifferent to athletes who use doping, who know it and even encourage it, and are incapable of fighting doping. Specially in Turkish athletics, weightlifters and wrestling, doping has become unstoppable today, along with the insensitiveness of the Minister of Youth and Sports. Above all, it appears the ministry has failed to fulfill its duties and responsibilities by law, such as protecting sports health and ensuring the implementation of international rules and instructions. For example, a wrestler who has been identified as using a banned substance with a report from Turkey's Doping Control Centre at Hacettepe University has been taken to the 2004 Athens Olympics, despite his writing to inform the Youth and Sports Director's office on the status of the remembered Centre. Despite the information of the Centre mentioned, the athlete was appointed to the Office of the Office of the High Performance Services of Olympic Sports by the Youth and Sports General Directorate in 2010. This person is still in charge there. Another doping incident at the 2004 Summer Olympics took place in our lady weightlifter. The first international success in the 1998 European Weightlifting Championship in the Czech Republic was disqualified from the 2004 Athens Olympics on the grounds that our female weightlifters had broken 8 European records in the same tournament, including the older ones and the younger ones. Our world and Olympic champion weightlifter, one of the most important names of the world's weightlifting weightlifting, was found to have been doping at the 2005 European Weightlifting Championship, and our athlete was banned from the competition for two years, then turned back into a sport, but failed. In the 2008 Beijing Olympics, a female athlete was banned from competitions by the International Doping Agency (WADA) for using banned substances. Doping has been found in five athletes at the European Under-23 Weightlifting Championships in Israel in November 2012, at the European Championships held in England in June 2013. Our female athlete, identified by the International Association of Athletics Federations in February 2013 at the PSD Bank Competition in Germany, was banned from competitions for two years. Turkey's Body Development Fitness and Wrestling Federation athlete died in 15/10/2013 due to the use of banned substances. In 2013, when eight of our athletes were involved in the doping scandal and did not participate in the competitions at the 17th Mediterranean Games in Mersin, the country was a shock to our people. Our wrestler, who has also been infected with the historic Kharpınar Oil Wrestlers of Doping 652, has unfortunately had to give up his right to doping because the gold belt has earned its eternal, permanent representation. In August 2013 alone, there were 15 national athletes who had been doped. Dear lawmakers, our country has become unable to look at sports news in the face of the frightening size of doping. Turkey's National Olympic Committee Anti-Doping Commission received 648 examples of nationally-based competitions and non-competitive doping in 2013. In a sample taken from the Turkish Athletics Federation athletes in 2013, a sample of the Turkish Federation of Halter athletes was sampled by 34.8 of the examples taken from the Turkish Federation of Body Development athletes were found in 21% of the samples taken from Turkish Wrestling Federation athletes, one or more of the samples taken from the Turkish Tekwondo Federation athletes. In short, in the first six months of 2013, a sample of 648 athletes has been found in 90 percent of doping. The world-accessed doping danger limit was 1.5-2, while Turkey was 13.88. In other sports, such as athletics and weightlifts, the proportion is 45 per cent. As a result of all of this, to cover failures, you have to win by the ruling authorities in an extreme way. When pressure is applied, there has been a series of doping incidents that have never been seen in the history of Turkish sports; 48 athletes, 40 weightlifters have been doped. In the Mediterranean Games where we host 30 athletes withdraw from competitions due to drugs, 8 weightlifters and 8 record athletes are doping, the first step in the drug study of dozens of athletes is positive, and now I'm curious: doesn't the faces of those who run the sport blush? It's this political mentality that doesn't only see athletic success as a winning medal, who doesn't stand up for the athlete in the event of his failures, who doesn't provide the economic guarantee of all athletes who win or win medals, who trade sports, who encourage sports success to do drugs to convert sportic success into political Ranta, who don't think about sports health, who imposes solidarity, who punishs opposition, punishes the ethics of the athlete. The athlete is known to have high expectations of success, of reputations, transfers, championships, medals and athletes' economic difficulties, and that the success of trainers is indexed to the athlete's performance is one of the reasons why athletes use doping. The job of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and its federations is to eliminate the causes that drive the athlete to do drugs and fight doping. However, it seems that the Minister of Youth and Sports is not in any effort to prevent doping. Recent scandals caused by the use of doping in weightlifting majors, our athletes believe that they will not live without drugs and will not succeed. First of all, we need to erase this idea from the minds of our athletes. No transaction has been made regarding the former Taekwondoist and former Director of Youth and Sports County, the president of the Halter Federation, who explained with his statements and was indifferent and inadequate in the face of the incident. The young and sports minister's desire to create a sense of success in sports in public and bond this perception to political power encourages athletes and makes the federations stand out in the face of events. Doping violates the spirit of sports, endangers the health of athletes and undermines the confidence of sports public opinion. It is not acceptable that the failures of the Ministry should be reduced to individual errors, which present all sporting achievements as a government achievement, which makes the heads of the federation a bureaucrat of the Ministry. The government and the relevant Ministry are directly responsible for failures and scandals such as doping. According to Article (2)/e of the Law Code on the Ministry of Youth and Sports, it is the ministry's duty to determine policies in the field of sports and to ensure the implementation of international rules and regulations, but the Ministry of Sports Services is also employed by Article 9/c of the legislation referred to. When the drug problem is assessed within the framework of these provisions, the Ministry's Anti-Doping Convention provisions and the Youth and Sports Directorate's Anti-Doping regulations find that it has not been implemented and has not taken measures to protect its athletic health. Dear lawmakers, the minister, who has recently disgraced our sport and Turkey in public, discredited them, discredited them, did not reveal the reasons behind the sports ethics and spirit of doping, failed to carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed on him by the law, must resign without the need of the motions of the geneor, but such an honorable position has never existed. Therefore, in the coming days, our group will submit a motion to the Minister of Youth and Sports. In a democratic country, ministers are also responsible for scandals in their area of responsibility. If the ministry does not carry out its duty and responsibility, it is the responsibility of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Therefore, no matter what political party you belong to, you must say yes to this research motion because the honor and reputation of this country have been handed over to your esteemed lawmakers. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0049par0098	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Iron Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0050par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to all of you on behalf of my party and to respect and cherish you, on behalf of the four political parties' proposals for research on the doping used in sports and sports. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say hello to Mr. Ayşe Gökkan, who is standing behind the fundamental legitimate demands of the community by laying his life on a death fast in front of the walls of the mined fields between Turkey and Rojava, whose sixth day we entered, which are not satisfied with fences, and that we will be there for him on the 7th with wishes of success. It is also the anniversary of the massacre, brutality, and genocide that was inflicted on the victims and the oppressed in Kerbala a thousand and three hundred and thirty years ago. Again, it was in Kerbela a thousand three hundred and thirty-three years ago that there were massacres in Sivas, such as denial, destruction, singularization, the movement point of one form, which is now found in Dermim. First, we condemn this massacre, and we want to share a future of war that will lead to peace, freedom. Again, today, we have heard of an accident in Bozova district of Urbana, which resulted in the loss of seven citizens and the injuries of dozens of citizens by rolling into a van that also included the refugees from Rojava. First of all, I'd like to convey to the citizens who have lost their lives my wish for God's mercy and immediate healing to the wounded, and to ask that a sensitivity to the traffic monster be brought up in Parliament as an unscheduled duty and responsibility. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers celebrate all political parties in the House on behalf of myself and my party, who first carry out a problem like the destructive and lethal function of the four political parties, such as doping, which is one of the main issues of humanity, and that they meet in a collaborative position to do what needs to be done, and I thank them for that kind of sensitivity. I'd like to start by carrying and wishing that we could bring together an equitable, fair, liberal civil constitution, which has led to the emergence of all this evil. Dear President, dear lawmakers, doping has been happening throughout history. It's new, it's new, it's been thousands of years since the ambition of the Athens website states to achieve power with one side to this day, because people are subject to the ambition of attaining property and materiality on the other side, it's been doping, rather than natural and democratic competition of the biological entity, which is part of the ecosystem, it's unfair, it's cheating, and it's going to be counterproductive, and it's going to be self-proclaiming the other. Beyond the biological existence of man, when you put him in a position to worship power, ego, power as a social being, he will have to resort to other ways, methods, tools to rule out the other, whether he wants to or not. It's a trick, it's not about sports, it's about sport and gentlemanliness, it can't be expressed. In this regard, it is significant that the International Anti-Doping Agency and its organisations have been focused on it. It is also appreciated by us that this sensitivism, which makes sense, is on the agenda of our House. However, Mr. Secretary, drugs that cause doping and doping are harmful, toxic, deadly. But like marijuana, like gambling, the harmful and deadly diseases, the pollutants, these deadly and dangerous substances, just as we can't get them out of the society's agenda by law, the law alone, the law alone, can't stop us from accessing doping substances that are used in sports. This is a matter of common sense above all things. This is about whether we approach society and its communities in the right way. If we subject everything to power, everything to hierarchy, everything to power, and in that sense, if we transform everything into a relationship that is in power, around the one in power, and orbiting around the one in power, the sport will get dirty, and the athlete will get dirty. And in an environment where materiality, money comes first, everything is marketed and subsidized, and it's converted into commercial meta, sports are not less than that, it's more than that. It's because it's the dollar, it's the gold, it's the medal, it's the status, it's the power. To keep a person away from it in that way, first of all, it's the transformation of the mindset, independent of law and punishment. If we can cause this to happen, if we can end the judgment of the person who is a part of the ecosystem, if we can end the human rights on nature, if we can lead to a natural, democratic, ecological society, people will run to all kinds of races in peace, democracy, and legit. He was running yesterday, before sports was professionalized, sports commercialized, metamorized, they ran this business in their villages, places, fields, fields, all kinds of athletic activities, but when sports was turned into a vehicle that was used to achieve certain goals, people were transformed into a means of accessing certain material conditions, and so were sports, and athletes. And in that sense, first of all, we need to be able to transform the race from the mentality of professionalization and commercialization into areas that will save people from the legitimate and democratic ground with amateur spirit, but amateurically in all areas and places. Ankara's main arteries, streets and streets, Istanbul, İzmir, and the main streets of all of our metropolitan cities, have been deprived of their freedom in the hegemonic relationship of government headquarters under the rule of siege, leaving people to participate in sports and sporting activities, let alone in the main arteries of all our metropolitan cities. In this sense, the streets have been transformed into isolated places in the middle of the desert, in the dark, in the streets, where tablets, heroin, and marijuana are sold, where democratic and sporting competitions will be transformed into areas. If we, who produce doping, produce heroin, produce marijuana, produce all kinds of customs walls, and can't intervene in the confluence and complex structure of international relations across the world, if we can't object, then we can turn heroin into a dirty competition that our young people are struggling to achieve, even though we don't want to, in our neighborhoods, in our streets, in our cities, in our cities, in our cities, as long as international monopolys are a meta produced by international Trusts. Which is his work: 2011, 2012, 2013, Mr. Secretary of State shares the statistics of athletes who attempted and deigned to do so. It's painful, but it's true, according to WADA, the expression of the World Anti-Doping Agency and statistics, it's 14 per cent athletes worldwide, one of seven athletes, who have stooped to doping and applied. This number is scary. It's going to multiply as long as we turn it into a force and a meta field day in and day out. That means that the four political parties need a number of laws that prevent them from accessing doping and doping substances, along with their research proposal, which, of course, we will be there for them, and in that sense, we will not deny any support. But we shouldn't be satisfied that everything is not punishment, that everything is not law, that everything is not law, that it can't be shaped, that it can't be stopped, that it can't be created, that it can't be stopped, that we can't face today, and we need to approach the problem of multi-identity, a sense of the multi-ethnic culture that will meet the needs of this reality on democratic legitimate ground, and in that sense, the multilingual identity, which is based on the multicultural unity of society, the multiple identity, that is the one type of identity, and the same identity, without the same identity. If we can create a Parliament whose language is forbidden, its identity, its culture is forbidden, its colour is forbidden, its headscarves are forbidden, its headscarf is forbidden, its freedoms are in the depths of freedoms instead of pants, its belief that everyone lives, believes and deserves it, if we can get freedoms from this parliament into communities and communities, we can also cover problems that cause pollutants and pests and deadly diseases. In that sense, yes, doping is unacceptable in sports. Doping in sports is the right of another person, resulting in terminal diseases. A race that is fair and unegalitarian can't be designed by law and by law alone to rid themselves of this harm done to horses and other competitor animals, whose presence is alive from a running and running athlete, which has been sometimes metabolized, despite their will. First of all, the fact that we are one of billions of living organisms, one individual, one individual, one person, one person, one community, one community, one community, but not enough, that we should be able to make peace with nature, so that we can avoid this kind of evil and pollutants. This understanding has been rejected by the religions. Religions are the most sacred way of attaining righteousness and beauty. When they can't get over it, there's still a lot of ways to go, if they can't get over the fundamental problems of mankind, if they can't get over it. In that sense, parliaments are important. But we need to remove the parliaments from the areas of a political representation alone, in the village, in the village, in the neighborhood, in the town, in the city, in order to act with regional governments, democratic, legitimate relations, and governances, in accordance with the diversity of regional biosystems. If we can strengthen local governments with administrative, financial autonomy in terms of regional relations, if we can bring the parliaments of administrative fiscal autonomy to society and communities, we can prevent these problems from growing, if we can give them a chance to health, health, education, culture, in their town, in their localities. Aren't we saying that in the end, doping is a harmful and deadly substance, a harmful cause of permanent illness? But beyond that, we as individuals, but also as a society, we can't all of us, as a spiritual, physical, goodness-deprived, free of political, social, well-being conditions, more psychological, social, cultural problems, deprivations, with a reality like this and so on. First, we need to be able to maintain a spiritual, physical, political, social, social well-being, so that a society of individuals with these health conditions can have a healthy spiritual, physical condition, political and social well-being. In this respect, the House is a place of responsibility, which before everything and anyone else is responsible. A relationship in this place where freedom, justice, equality, justice, equality, man doesn't crush, exploit, man doesn't oppress, man doesn't suppress, in order to suppress, in order to reach some tools, it's human, it's natural. And without delaying the natural and human relationship of this Assembly, through this Parliament, it must express the sensitivity of political will, political parties, to Turkey's peoples, to their identities, to their beliefs, especially to the urgency of all Islam's fighting, to the mourning of mourning, to the condemnation of the massacre in Kerbela, while the victims and oppressed peoples, who are still in a position to find a solution to the identities, cultures, and freedoms of the peoples of Turkey, are still in a position to achieve those freedoms, which are still in a position, of course, to be concerned about the importance of the freedom of this Assembly, and to the freedom of freedoms. In this sense, four political parties who want to prevent doping in sports, and in this sense offer a parliamentary research motion, saying that first and foremost, we should bring to our people a civil constitution, which is the address of our political, social problems, a solution to our problems, to our people, and that effort and effort will be set in motion by our party and our group, he says, with respect to all of you. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0051par0117	Thank you, Mr. Steel. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Aydın MP Ali Longırmak. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0052par0121	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the research proposal, given by four parties to investigate doping in the sport, in the form of a joint motion. My deepest regards to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the start of my speech, I would like to say that the goal in sports is to bring the health of the soul and the body to the top. The result of my spirit and physical production is that my strength is superior to yours. It is based on competition at the point. With movement, first of all, the importance of sports in the pre-Islamic Turkic communities, and the superior views of our Prophet, which encourage wrestling and swimming in person, also by the founder of our republic, Ataturk When we look at the situation of Turkish sports from here, dear friends, I regret to say that I object to Mr. Minister speaking here in a manner that has no responsibilities at all, no responsibility at all, of developments and policies that have been implemented. Honourable MPs, AKP power has ruled the country for 11 years. So, Mr. Secretary, not just in his speech here, but in a number of public press conferences and talks, the arrests have increased because of the beginning of practice. When you're not in traffic, you don't get a ticket. Since the controls are tightening, the number of dopings is increasing. It makes some statements, such as these. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Secretary, do you think he's blaming the ministers before him? Does he forget that they are AKP MPs, Mr. Secretary? So if we read it in some other way, one of the areas in the country that the AKP has been running for 11 years that it can't fit the spear in the sack is a sport? Does the AKP now admit that it cannot rule the country, that irregularities, the crackdown, the looting, the lying, and that it is forced to blame those before it, Mr. Secretary? In the Minister's logic, the fight against doping in Turkey is not possible, precious MPs. Why can't it be solved when we evaluate the Minister's logic? Because the Minister never heeds the information that has reached him, the documents that have been reached to him, and he doesn't even apply the court's decisions to the Ministry. If there are no court decisions in one country, what is the ministry doing? Dear lawmakers, it is not possible to solve the Minister's logic because instead of looking at his actions, the Minister speaks the figures, such as the news anchor. Yes, Turkey is suffering a disaster. It is likely that if this goes on, if measures are not taken, there will be no athletes to participate in the Olympics and international competitions in Turkey in the coming years, and there will be no athletes to be reached, because most athletes will be sentenced to doping. Can you imagine, in a country, where athletes are usually around 14 percent and some majors, close to 45 percent of them are doped up and banned from competitions? So, how's the athlete gonna grow up? I suggest to Mr. Secretary that when the AKP comes to power, when we calculate 11 years, the boy who is ten is 21 years old today. I mean, as an athlete, he's at the age where his performance can be the highest. If the doping in the sport has come to this point after 11 years, then there is only one responsibility, which is the AKP governments; they haven't been able to implement it. What couldn't they do? We have documents. Dear MPs, look, our Hacettepe teacher is head of the Anti-Doping Commission, but Hacettepe is passing the results to the Ministry's chief of staff in his research on doping control. We have access to the department's chief of staff, the documents numbers, but that's not taken into account. Where is this athlete being assigned? Head of Olympic Sports High Performance Services. We've had a press conference on these issues. Mr. Secretary, doesn't your organization watch these press conferences at all? Is it true or not, what they say at these press conferences? This friend of ours is still on this mission. So our words are not considered at all. This athlete also carries a flag at the top of our Olympic Committee at the 2012 Olympics. So an athlete who's been transferred to the Ministry, who's been processed in the Ministry, is the head of the Olympic Sports High Performance Service, and is one of the athletes who carries the flag at the 2012 Olympics. Mr. Secretary, there is no way in your mind that this can be resolved. If the MPs' press conferences, their warnings don't wake you up at all, your surrender to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today won't save you, and if it does, it will be wrong. Look, the questions we ask in Turkish sports, the answers we get, they're pathetic. Has there been any plumbing? Are there improvements in sports in other areas? Of course, plumbing is a technical issue, it's an important issue of sport, but when plumbing and mental development don't go in the right proportions, it's not possible for the sport to achieve the desired goal. Now I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary some questions. Something blew up in Taekwondo, the newspapers wrote it all up. The development of the Tekwondo Federation and a number of issues in Taekwondo, along with a coach's voice recording, told the Minister 15 days before the press conference, but he was desperate, 15 days later he held a press conference. First the press conference was blocked, something was promised, but then he held the press conference. I'm asking Mr. Secretary now: did this coach bring the Investigation Board into action after he came in and informed him, or did the Board of Investigations take action after this came out in the papers, or did he not take action, or what did that Board of Investigators do? If the Minister came to him with information in the direction of that information -- which I believe is all recorded in the chief of staff -- because it is an official government meeting -- that day, Mr. Secretary didn't activate the Inspection Board, if he had activated the Inspection Board after the press conference fifteen days later, Mr. Secretary had neglected his duty. There's no way he'll ever make it up to you. In one country, when athletes are elected to the national team, a trainer reports that a number of awards received by coaching the national team are shared, they've been bribed, and if that report is not processed immediately after that, there's no point in invading the ministry. If court decisions are not carried out in the country, if the complaints of the individuals, the actors, are not taken into account, Mr. Secretary, will you act in revelation? Now, one of the most important reasons for drug prevention is, of course, to gain the social status of economic and success. So, we ask the Minister, we say, how many athletes have we been to the London Olympics? What's the success here? Is there any other country in the world where athletes should be rewarded with 60/ars of gold to go to the Olympics without winning in the Olympics? The only response he gives is that Western countries have considerable sponsorship support for athletes far beyond the awards given by the state, he says. Now, valuable lawmakers, if you reward the athlete with 2,000, 1,500, 1,000 gold in an Olympic success, 60 gold coins on the way to the Olympics, 30 euros of gold, he'll risk everything to succeed in that Olympics, if necessary, he'll gamble, he'll say: I'll doping here. I saved my life if I got caught, if I didn't get caught, because, as a result of an Olympics, if you're getting some support like 2,000 gold and more sponsorships, he's gambling there, and he's an athlete, and he can't succeed again, but he's not in Europe, not in the United States. The athlete is rewarded with several awards in continuous and sustainable short distances for his continued success. But are the awards being shared, as did a number of trainers and a number of federation officials, whether this operation in Turkey was intentional or convinced by the Minister's environment? And are these awards shared by trainers and selectors? There's been a lot of reports. The foreign coach has filed a complaint with the Ministry, and we have a document, and we have a transcript of the letter. The Korean coach has reported to the Minister how the awards were received from him in exchange for coaching and achievements. That's what Turkish sports has become. If he was like this 15 years ago, that's debatable. Maybe the athletes were more idealists, and I kiss the eyes of all of our athletes, who waved the starry flag that month, as Ataturk put it, as moralists say, congratulations and thank you, but I'd like to share with you the understanding that sports can't be ruled by any kind of influence, not just by the economic prizes, but by the way that makes their soul and physique open to all kinds of things. The Minister must answer these questions. In the face of these reports, did the Inspection Board do what they were supposed to do, or did they not do what they were supposed to do? Of course, I know that the last one always has the advantage, but I feel that if honest and moral answers are given, the Minister can't handle a lot of things. As a result of the parliamentary motions, did the friends who followed the work in his organization warn him? When the trainers complained, didn't he, perhaps, ring the bell next to them, call the review board, or call the officers, and activate the review board? If he didn't, on what grounds did he not? When did he spend it? And is that athlete still in charge? What's the reason it's going on? Is Turkish sports going to or won't go to a stage where the drug-free athlete won't stay in the years to come? And the bottom line is, even when I have a deadline, I'm going to say, is there or is there no one in the Ministry or in charge of any of the banned substances directly or indirectly Turkey? When all these questions are answered, it will be revealed how the Department of Sports is managed, if it's managed. And I expect honest, moral answers. Thank you, I say we're in favor of the motion, and I believe it would be in the country's best interest to investigate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0053par0140	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0054par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group for the opening of parliamentary investigations by four political parties in order to investigate the drug cases of Turkish sports, with respect to the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Article 56 of our Constitution mandates our state to ensure that everyone survives in body and mental health. The 58th article of our constitution is to protect our state from independence and from the abuse of alcohol, drugs, guilt, gambling, and other bad habits and ignorance that our republic is entrusted with. In a similar way, Article 59 states that citizens of our state of all ages are obliged to take measures to improve body and mental health, spread sports to the masses, and reward successful athletes. We must do all we can to improve the body and soul health of our society and raise healthier future generations and mobilize all necessary resources. I believe that all members of our House agree with me on this, and will not hesitate to support positive steps. Sports are at the top of the most important and effective references applied today for the development of healthier generations physically and spiritually. Advanced and developing countries make serious investments in sports and strive to ensure that sports gain a social base. Between 2007 and 2011, I served as President of the Turkish Wrestling Federation. As our Minister has just expressed, the process of fighting doping in Turkish sports continues with determination. During my time as Federation President, we've had a doping sample from athletes with certain periods, and we've had some really successful results in this process, but it's a process. I'm speaking as Federation President, speaking as someone who's been through this. Of course, when our athletes really represent our country, they're trying to put on a superior performance to succeed. This process needs to be handled well. And as a reflection of that, there are sports health centers in our universities. While I was on duty at the Wrestling Federation, I went to the Sportsman Health Center of the Chapa Medical School, and I made a deal with them, and in the process, we gave our athletes, national athletes, athletes, athletes representing our country in our European, world and Olympic championships, where an identity was created about each one of them, and with Professor Dr. Bulent Bayraktar, the director, we gave both our trainers and clubs training, both before and outside the camps. Now, the work our Minister has done on zero tolerance in the process, and the work conducted by the Department of Youth and Sports is really important because right now, when we look at professional athletes, we see that record changes are incredibly changing, and these record changes, of course, trigger the doping that we call the cancer of sports. You see, a former athlete who played 30 or 40 games a year is doing 70 or 80 games today, so he's getting health benefits to close these scissors. It's an inevitable reality, but it has to be carried out with a conscious science. I don't mean doping. The athlete, of course, puts a lot of energy and effort into it, but in doing so, what's scientifically lacking in the body, what's needed, is to be determined to draw a road map according to this. Of course, doping is described as being used consciously or unconsciously by athletes by substances or methods banned by the International Olympic Committee. Now, there's an approach to sports after 2009: biological passport, and there's an antidoping management system, a pool, as we call it. This pool is for major athletes in the world. In this pool, where the athlete himself is -- he's entering this data system in the computer environment -- I'm in training today, I'm here today, I'm here tomorrow. He's going to state that I'm here. Of course, in sports, all countries are particularly determined to fight IOC doping. And at this point in our country -- I've been a sports manager for many years and I've served in the federation -- in the process, our government, our Sports Department, is doing its job and continuing its work. And recently -- as our minister has expressed -- the planned investments at the Hacettepe Doping Center are really important investments in Turkish sports. Because protecting our athlete's health is one of our most important tasks -- as we just stated in the Constitution. You see, the doping numbers are up, the numbers are showing it. It's like this all over the world. You're looking at bikers in France, bikers in Italy, bikers in other majors, everywhere, because now the methods, scientific methods of fighting doping have changed. And everyone's determined. It's cancer, it's cancer in sports. And the biggest damage comes to athletes. At a certain age, athletes lose their lives at a young age because of these secret substances that they take. Here's the commission, which will be set up with proposals from all parties, party groups, will provide a very important task to support a process that is being carried out. You see, the Department of Youth and Sports had an organization called SESAM. This led to the process of athletes' health. One of the most important things I've ever wanted -- my minister -- has already said his statement -- is the Olympic preparation center. Mr. Secretary has stated that this will be established. What's an Olympic prep center? You see, there are such Olympic centres in countries that have succeeded in the Olympics, France, Russia, America. The athletes are coming here. This is where scientificly their information is revealed. What kind of training method is planned, what kind of process is it going to go through? Really, this is a very important step for me. I congratulate the Minister and the workers. Because that's a very important number. Now, alone, the number in sports, you see, the sports industry is about $600 billion. And the number of the doping industry is around $10 billion. This development in the sports industry is one of the most important factors that triggers this doping. So how do we get through this? In this regard, we have a report of a commission established in 2005 by our esteemed Ankara MP Haluk İpek. I read this report. Doping has been identified between the 140th and 152nd pages of this report. According to these findings, suggestions have been made. The commission report, first referred to various factors, including the Award Rule and lack of control in certain majors, said that current applications should also be reviewed for the active fight with doping and increased drug control activities. In particular, the recent changes made in the Prize Charter have been supported by the sports public. For every medal that our national athletes have won in high-level international competitions, they are reluctant to receive a large amount of cash awards, and they have influenced athletes and trainers. Thus, the latest regulations in the Prize Rule were in place and provided support for the sustainable success of athletes, not just one time. Now, for the doped athletes, it's about this big. That's all it was, so here's what happened. That is because I will not dwell on them, because other, former speakers have expressed them. But we have to hand it to you, really, this is not just a process that will be fought by our Ministry of Youth and Sports and our federations. That's why it's incomplete. It needs media support, it needs support from our people, it needs support from sports health centers in our universities. It's a total workout. Because we see that when we go to a tournament with our athletes -- I've lived in person -- our athlete really seems innocent in this, he doesn't know what's going on. We need to get these young athletes through education, hard training, but we need to follow them one-on-one. The secret to success here, to me, is education, education, education. And we need to take this process very well, we need to activate all of the athletic health centers at universities, we need to work with them, we need to enrich the doping center, and we need to take this process together. Of course, there's nothing to say about sports and investments in sports. In fact, Turkey has achieved many successes and continues to achieve those achievements in recent years, with its infrastructure investments in sports, with international organisations. Of course, we have to plan the athlete's foot really well, we have to do it well. Now, after I've made a few more points at the training point, I'm going to finish what I said. Now, we see that these athletes -- when we go to the camps -- the age of starting sports changes from 10 to 12 to 14 according to different majors. We need to tell the athletes how bad doping is in the first place, what doping is, how to behave. You're going to a competition, and an outsider gives the athlete something. He shouldn't be drinking. We've trained our athletes in this, and we continue to train them. It's really important. A man you don't know, a man who greets you, can give you something in a championship, you can drink it. You don't know what's in it when you drink because it's the athlete's own responsibility, his own responsibility. That's why when an athlete does something, he has to understand professionalism in this sport. And our executives have to run this process very well, and they have to follow it well, and they've got to keep the trainers conscious, and I think that's how we're going to get this process done. This parliamentary research motion is a really nice painting with everyone's participation. We believe that as a result of this process, we will see that there are no doping incidents in Turkish sports, that doping events are reduced to minimal, and that a road map of our country's Turkish sport will be mapped for drugs. I'd like to thank everyone who contributed to these motions. I salute you all.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0055par0162	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0056par0163	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0055par0164	Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0056par0165	Mr. President, I would like to exercise my right to explain based on Article 69 of the Civil Code. Some issues were expressed in a way that I didn't refer to.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0055par0166	You're saying you're referring to a different opinion than the one you suggested?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0056par0167	In a different way, some of my views were perceived or expressed. If you'll excuse me from the stand to clarify those matters...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0055par0168	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is four minutes.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0056par0173	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute the General Assembly again. I'd like to thank our MPs for speaking on behalf of the groups. I would like to express my thanks to our Istanbul MP in particular for the technical details of the matter. Respected lawmakers, it would be unfair to say that nothing has been done that has been combative in the matter of doping. The injustice done to my person is not that important, but the injustice to the Turkish sports administration is simply impossible to tolerate.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0057par0176	Tell me why those Olympics have been lost, Suat! Why were the Olympics lost?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0056par0177	That would be seriously unfair. This injustice should not be done to this Parliament because I've made it clear here that the steps have been taken. There are steps taken, there are decisions made, there are applications made. All of these are promising developments in the name of Turkish sports for the future and a move to eliminate negatives. Criticism has been made against the Prize Rule. That's right, in 2004, the Prize Rule was changed. In the Olympics, in the world championships and European championships, it was considered a high award for all of our athletes who had raised our flag, who proudly read the Istiklal Anthem, as well as a factor that would increase success in sports, but was later expressed as an approach that encouraged the risk of doping of high prizes. We moved from here, the regulations have changed. In exchange for the gold medal received by an Olympic champion in the Olympics, we reduced it to 2,000 full republic gold, a thousand gold, 1,500 full republic gold for the silver medal; and we reduced it to 750. We went from 30 percent to 70 percent at the awards. We've only doubled the coaches' awards proportionally, so we've kept the existing prizes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we need to take a look at this. We've changed coach's training regulations. We've redefined the working and working methods of independent sports federations. Someone here might say that politics is involved in the federations. Some of the federations are involved in politics. He will ask us who will answer for the failure. Well, if the federations are going to use unlimited autonomy, shouldn't success and failure be in the Federation? That's one thing to consider. Turkish sports still needs the support, encouragement, contribution, influence of politics for some time now, and I'll make that clear. We're starting a sports institute with the University of Hacettepe. We're reacquainting the doping centers. This is all very important. We're on our way to oversee private gym sports facilities. I've expressed all this. Dear lawmakers, I may not have been able to explain. Before 2011, there was no Anti-Doping Commission. The samples were taken by the federations because they weren't. A federation -- it's not our ministers' fault, it's not my predecessor's fault -- can he have his own athlete inspected and arrested without even knowing that he was using a banned substance? He won't. In 2011, we established the Anti-Doping Commission. The chairman is Professor Rüğüt Güner, professor of the Ankara University Medical School. We're continuing independent control. The sample in 2011 was 71, 447 in 2012, and 1.077 today. I may not have been able to explain it, so pay attention to the numbers. Of course, with the number of doping in 71 samples, the number of doping in 1,077 samples will be different, but the goal is to reset them all.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0058par0182	What's the ratio? Give me the ratio.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0056par0183	I'll give you another number: the number of licensed athletes in Turkey in 2002 is 278,000. As of today, the number of licensed athletes in Turkey is 4 million 717,000. It's impossible to compare the risk of 4 million 717,000 athletes and 278,000 athletes, highly respected lawmakers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, we don't expect the people on the stand to appreciate us, but when we do, I think we deserve a fair review.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0059par0187	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0060par0188	How many people are we sending to the Olympics, Mr. Secretary, then how many have gone, and how many have we sent now?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0061par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0059par0190	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0061par0191	Mr. Secretary is taking us back to the chaos of meaning by renditioning what we're saying. It was clear what we were saying. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to bring something up again.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0059par0192	Mr. Tallermak, there was no taunting you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0062par0193	No names, no teasing, no insults.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0059par0194	If you want to make a statement, I'll give you my word on your location.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0063par0195	Okay, I'll do it in my place.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0064par0196	You don't talk in circles.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0059par0197	He'll make a statement, Mr. Young. I promise by 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0065par0200	Dear President, thank you. Mr. Secretary isn't answering correctly. So in 2004, in 2005, there were samples taken through the federations, and even though there were positives from these samples, what did these athletes do? That's what we told him. Are there any of them still in the ministry? Does he carry them on his own staff? There's no way he's going to fight that mindset, Mr. Secretary. I'm not naming a doped athlete for no offense. This athlete and this athlete are in the lead flag at the 2012 London Olympics, in the Ministry's staff. How is he going to deal with this mentality, Mr. Secretary? Let's be honest. And these have been voiced at press conferences, and they're still being held in the ministry staff.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0059par0202	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0066par0203	Mr. President, Mr. Longırmak has made accusations that he should be honest as well. I don't abandon my integrity to his discretion, it's a taunt, I want a say in sarcasm.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0067par0204	It's obvious from your actions that you're honest.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0068par0205	I'd have to explain the athlete's name, it'd be a shame.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0069par0206	Friends, friends...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0068par0207	It would be a shame for the athlete.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0069par0208	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0068par0209	It would be a shame for the athlete.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0070par0210	I'm asking for a say in bullying.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0069par0211	Mr. Tallermak, you have spoken. He claims to be a bully, Mr. Secretary. Please... I'll give you my word for two minutes, please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0071par0213	Mr. President, there's no bullying here, there's a document. There's a document, there's no bullying here.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0069par0214	He said you're accusing him of not being honest, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0071par0215	Sir, there's a document here, processed by the Ministry, 21/05/2004...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0069par0216	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0219	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute the General Assembly again. First of all, you had a question about what happened in the Taekwondo Federation that I didn't activate the inspection mechanism.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0221	Date... inspection board date...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0222	The Investigation Board of the Teekwondo Federation has been activated before the news has been reported to you. At this time, an inspection of the Taekwondo Federation is under way.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0223	History...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0224	No matter where it leads...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0225	Date... how many dates?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0226	No matter who he claims, no matter who he accuses, the inspection of the Taekwondo Federation will go to the end.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0227	When the coach tipped you off or after the press...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0074par0228	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0229	That's where my C.E.O. lives. One of the most active boards is the president of the review board.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0230	We'll see.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0231	It's going to go on, it's going to go on, it's going to go on, it's one. Number two: there's no way we can cover up or cover up any dirt or dirt. To wake up Turkish sports, we have mobilized all of our resources as a government to create a new vision for Turkish sports, to include in the Olympic movement. If you understand everything and express some misunderstandings, we strive to correct misunderstandings. But if you come to the stand to insult me, and you're only interested in me...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0233	I didn't insult you, I didn't insult you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0234	Read the transcripts, you'll see them.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0235	I didn't insult you. Give me the date!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0236	The name you're referring to is Mehmet Ozal.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0237	When did the Inspection Board become active?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0238	I did. You asked me if it was before or after the news, before the news.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0239	Give me the date.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0240	I'll give you the history tomorrow.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0241	Now give it to me, why give it to me tomorrow?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0242	I'm not a computer, I'm not going to express it right away. How should I know?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0243	For God's sake, the Minister doesn't know that!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0244	If he gives you the date, I'll give you the date from there. Another: The athlete you described was evaluated in 2004, his name is Mehmet Ozal, our former wrestler. The Investigation Board is continuing its investigation into the incident. If the allegations against him are true, there's no way he's gonna stay on duty.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0247	When did that inspection start?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0075par0248	Will the investigation take ten years?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0249	It's not a name that I offer duty, that I offer duty, that I offer duty to.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0250	When did that inspection start?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0251	You know what you're saying? Don't get involved in politics. You shouldn't be making sports polymic material. Sports shouldn't be made of polemic material.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0073par0252	When did that inspection start?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0253	Once that inspection has arrived on our side of the matter... where can it come from? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Someone can download your hearing, get out of there; they can be in the media; they can be in the media; they can be sent there; they can be put in the parliamentary's question motion; they can be transferred from there. It can go any other way.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0072par0257	I'm not going to act in my dreams. Of course, as soon as we know, we're on the move.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0077par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0260	Friends, Congressmans, I have something to say. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0077par0261	It's fitting that the state man and the state's functioning, if the President of the Inspection Board is here...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0262	Mr. Longhorn, if you'll excuse me, I have something to say.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0077par0263	...the computer will know in ten seconds when it started.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0264	Don't be rude! But you're being rude!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0078par0265	Mr. President, watch your language!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0266	Look, you're interrupting me, you're being rude. Please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0079par0267	You don't have to do that. He'll learn from here in ten seconds.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0268	Please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0080par0269	There's no word for
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0270	Friends, lawmakers, we're talking sports. Please, let's have this discussion based on the rules of fairplay.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0081par0271	Look, Mr. President, we're going to give the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a round word...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0082par0272	And you watch your language, Mr. President!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0273	Besides, there's a Galatasaray game in the Champions League right now, so let's not get nervous.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0081par0274	We're not making him nervous.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0275	On behalf of the Court and on behalf of you, I wish the Galatasaray Sports Club the best of luck against Denmark's Copenhagen. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0083par0278	Mr. President, correct your own statement before you do. You can't say you're sorry! You mend your style first, as president.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0279	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0084par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0281	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0084par0282	Mr. President, in the technology we've come from...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0085par0283	Listen to the President for a second.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0284	I don't hear you at all. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0086par0286	Why are the inspectors here, the president of the board, and the minister's bureaucrats? To get some information right away. He'll be able to access the information in no time. When the inspection begins, it can be found here on the computer in ten seconds, 20 seconds.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0287	Okay, Mr. Tallie, okay. Minister, I'm done with this.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0086par0289	So, let's not be fooled by the General Assembly with round words, let's not be fooled.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0290	Now, we're done talking on behalf of the groups. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0087par0292	How can this inspection last for ten years?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0293	It's on the record.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0087par0294	How does a ten-year inspection last? Tell me about him!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0076par0295	What you said is on the record. 5- Kars MP İstiye İstaniya and 21 MPs' motion to open parliamentary research (10/757) in order to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problem of drugs in sports. [[Continue]] We're done talking for the bands. Now, let's move on to the speech of the motion holders. (10/753) original no. Mr. Vural Katuncu, Kütahya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0088par0317	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favor of the parliamentary research motion that we've submitted to support the study of doping cases in Turkish sports, the study of solutions to the doping problem, the thorough review of the drug problem in sports, the right and healthy information of the public, and I salute you all. Doping is not only in Turkey, but in the world, it is an important issue that threatens athletes, sports. The use of methods that enable external or a substance found in the athlete's body to be raised above the normal level is harmful to the athlete's health and a right to prevent competition. It's the desire of athletes to make themselves seem stronger than they really are and to rise higher than they deserve. It's unacceptable for a professional athlete to take a doping clause on purpose. At the head of measures that must be taken in our country, young athletes need to be briefed and trained on drug substances, prescription drugs to be translated into these substances, and health problems that they can give birth to. Sometimes athletes can be doped without even realizing it. For example, we also know that some of the medications used for treatment are doping. Some of the drugs that athletes take for health reasons also appear to be considered doping in control. In order to avoid this situation, athletes need to be informed about the drugs and all medications must be taken under doctor's control. The use of doping substances is also contrary to the spirit of sports, which aims to promote gentlemanliness, health, teamwork. They try to start the competition one step ahead, but health is at risk. Doping has negative consequences for human health. Not just when it's used, but during the long term, the consequences are negative. The main theme is that no success is more important than human health because doping threatens human health, and most importantly, the athlete's health is damaged. Doping substances are known to cause muscle-building effects, as well as long-term heart failure. Some drugs lead to premature aging, some to personality disorders. The use of these substances must be prevented. In this regard, sports clubs, managers, trainers, athletes are given great tasks. We know that these substances are very easy to access from time to time, without prescriptions, in a way that everyone can get from the pharmacy as they please. If we want to raise a conscious and successful generation of athletes, we need to take precautions together. Clearly, in order to succeed in this fight, our clubs need to take measures as well as the athletes need to take. In clubs, athletes are always checked for health care under the care of physicians. At this point, the importance of a sports doctor comes to light. It is obvious that clubs should have a sports physician or consult, such controls should be conducted within sports physicians. For this, work has been launched in the period of our government, and studies for the athletic health centre are currently moving rapidly. As part of the fight against drugs, our Ministry of Youth and Sports and Health have taken many new steps to prevent athletes from doping, inform athletes about the harmful effects of doping, feed sports and promote the fight against doping. At the point of these measures, athletes, trainers, and clubs need to be careful. The new legislation, which provides sanctions for athletes, coaches and clubs to prevent doping, is also under way. In this sense, we're taking quick steps together to prevent supply of drugs. There are restrictions at present, not only on athletes, but also on preventing access to banned substances within the sequence. Dear lawmakers, since the fight against doping is contrary to human creation, we must all agree that we must do this together, we must continue together. As individuals, we have to do the best we can as a society and fight for it. To this end, I feel it would be appropriate to investigate the Parliament, which was all proposed to build a basis for the drafting of this law, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0089par0324	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe. Now Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP (10/754). Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0090par0328	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When he listens to the Minister, he makes it sound like he didn't have anything to do with it. In fact, I find it difficult to understand who's in charge of the audit, Mr. Secretary? Is it the Federation's control responsibility? It's not in the Federation, it's in charge of control, it's in the county sports department.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0091par0330	I'll answer if the president agrees.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0090par0331	You'll answer. In 1999, these are the municipal sports managers, who are actually obligated to do all of these audits. So here's the problem: you've actually handed the lambs over to the wolves in some places, and in some places, in some places, actually, the Federation did this, and that's what it did. You're trying to get out of the business by saying, "You're sending that federation away." Is that a thing? I have something very important to say. Of course, as a person from the inside of the sport, I would say that, of course, for the country, for Turkey, we all have to do everything we can to succeed in sports together. We all agree on that, there's no problem here, but here's the thing: look at sports in schools. A man needs sports for the rest of his life, and look at how they train in sports. I mean, you don't have to know the number of pis for the rest of your life, but you have to work out. Are you looking at this? Take a good look at all of this. Not everyone's going to be an engineer, but he needs sports to live in good health. Is this all happening? How do you train? I mean, check it out, see if all those sports teachers actually teach kids professionally in schools. These are very important matters. Now, you gave me the data. In fact, I think there's something very wrong with the 2013 data, maybe 2012, you gave me an example of America, but there's a very important example: 2013's first six months of data. According to the Federations, the athlete in the Athletics Federation has found doping samples in 46 samples, in 39 examples in weightlifting, 19 examples in wrestling, eight examples in body development, two examples in swimming, one in taekwondo. The number of athletes is 817, the number of people with banned substances is 115; one out of seven, one of our friends told us, 14. Yeah, that's an amazing number. You didn't build Hacettepe. Hacettepe was built long ago. Yeah, he was accidentally banned by WADA because he gave four false reports about drugging, and you re--- of course, it's in the country's best interest to bring him in, but you didn't build it, you didn't. It's been in service for a long time, and you're trying to get it re-acquainted with WADA, and that's the right thing to do, I admit it. Of course, I'll skip the reward code. My friends told me that the place you brought a doped friend today in 2004 is very strategic. Why strategic? It's strategic because of his name, and it's funny when you look at him. You said that about Mr. Mehmet, and I wasn't going to say his name, but even though Mehmet Özal was doped in 2004, the Ministry actually did some procedures, but in 2010, the Office for High Performance Services for Olympic Sports... what kind of high performance would that be? The guy's doing a high-performance doping?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0092par0338	That's right.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0093par0339	There's an example.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0090par0340	So if this 2004-2010 hasn't been processed with this guy in six years, what are you going to look at? I think there's a very serious problem here. I mean, do you know that when the running horsemen get doped up at the Velie Ma'am, they send them to hell? They don't make him run anywhere again. I mean, I'm sorry to say it's a bad example, but, you know, it's not appropriate, but maybe our friend has a different subject, maybe it's not his fault. It's the fault of those who encourage him in this country, and it's not the fault of that wrestler. I'm sorry to have to say this, but you're one of the most manipulative ministers. Why? I'll give you an example: I'm very sorry to give you this, but I'm telling you about mixed student dorms because they're actually under your ukdeniz, you're telling people, you've banned coeds of coeds and coeds. What's with all the coed dorms? What's that? Girls, boys stay in a room? It's not like that, but that's how people see it. We all went to college, there's no such thing. There's no such thing today. I'm an Izmir MP, at Aegean University, on September 9th, this torture is incredible. There's no limit to the torture you're inflicting on the children. On 9 September, you took a child from the figurine, and he was staying in the dorm, just from his school and from his school there, and you brought him to the house of karma, and you put him in Bornova. A kid's got six months on the road in four years. There's no limit to what he's paying. Now, are you telling people that we are thinking about the morality of your children? Where do you think you are? My daughter goes to college like a lion, I'll tell you. My child is my honor. He knows his father's integrity very well. I raised my child like a man. He won't bring me a word. He won't do it the way you tell him to. In the case of mixed student dorms, let me tell you that even though the boys and the girls live in separate buildings, it is called a mixed student dorm because they only meet for breakfast or dinner at a coffee shop in the middle or in a coffee shop. You separate them, but how do people perceive them? You're making it look like there's been a moral breakdown. It's a serious problem, it's a very serious problem, and I'm really sorry to say it. Why is it up to me to say that? I don't think we've had much of a run-in here. There are so many people, so many students, that their economic situation is bad; their families are coming to us, and we can't go there from there, and there's no dorms. Well, if you're so curious, there's 300,000 student dorms, millions of students, make dorms, make dorms, kids. Keep him off the streets, boys. So, $300, $200. The guy can't pay 100 lira, so that's how the kids are. Besides, how could he pay for that bus? He'll go from Bornova to Incubine. He'll be gone an hour and a half every day, and he'll be back an hour and a half in the evening. Your guy's been on the road for almost six months, your kid. It's not your right to do something like this, you have to find another solution. You've already made all the presidents in command, just as you've made the Federation presidents in charge. Look, the federations we know come from clubs, from people who are free from here. There are members in the Federation, there is a general assembly with those members, a man is elected in that general council, and he stands behind him as the president of the federation. Now, I'm gonna go check on some Federation heads here. There are so many federations that you've dictated during this period of power, I'll tell you a few: the President of the Wrestling Federation, your former AKP MP Hamza Indiankaya. Now, friends, now, like this... OSMAN LOVE BAK (Istanbul) has eight Europeans, three worlds, two Olympic championships. Okay, I'm not talking about that. Wherever he is, whatever club he's in, he'll be picked out of. Guys, look, there's 20 of them, 30 of them. Wrestling is not the right example. No, I'm gonna go one at a time, guys, one at a time. I mean, like the Tennis Federation... OSMAN LOVE BAK (Istanbul) let's not discuss Hamza. PTT Director General President of the Tennis Federation. I mean, you guys, there's 30 of them, and 30 of them have a relationship with the AKP in return, so I don't have to count them. Don't pay too much attention to it. I mean, come on, no one does anything like that to anybody. What a disgrace! I don't know if that's what I'm talking about. I see things that PTT is doing. He's got, like, a pickaxe, big, giant catalogs, something going on. They're worth billions of dollars. Leave them alone, let the children have a home! Don't worry about them, don't worry about them! Okay, I'm not saying anything, he's probably doing tennis, but go ahead, ask him how he got here, see how he got here. In what general council, who forced him to come? I'm saying there's 30 of them. Well, look, I am, and since it's like this... Last year, from the beginning of the year to today, we submitted five motions, questions, research motions. Which one did you answer? Why aren't you answering? We've already said that, and that's your problem, but I said so, and then I lost the Olympics. I said there, in the third month, in the fourth month; if it goes like this, you'll lose the Olympics. Well, now you're saying henna! Instead of dealing with him, go deal with them, deal with them instead of henna. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit03spe0094par0356	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0094par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue talks on the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the problem of doping in Turkish sports in recent years. The government is in place. It is now written by Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, who has the main number-one motion (10/755). Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0095par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Parliament's research motion on doping, which scorches our athletes and our youth. I salute the lawmakers who didn't lie, gave our motion to investigate drugs today, but did not refuse four months ago. My dear friends, the goal of sports is to bring to human beings equality, tolerance, patience, good intentions, success, and many other great concepts in the conditions of fighting with the body's health, and it is a good tool to promote inter-social brotherhood and peace in large sports organizations. Doping, as you know, is the various tricks of those who seek unfair advantage in competitions. However, the most decisive principle of sports is equality. Doping practices also have a negative effect on human health. Doping is rapidly spreading among our country's athletes and seriously threatening the health of our children, our athletes. Among the known side effects of doping substances, it can cause a variety of problems in young people, from the decline of development to liver, renal tumors, psychosis, infertility. Also, there have been drug-related deaths. In short, it's not about success, it's just about a system where everything is allowed to win, doping. It's the name of the system where all kinds of tricks are performed, doping. It's possible to include doping applications in the AKP order, which I'm about to give examples of. I mean, doping can be done not only in sports, but in many areas. Dear friends, I gave a similar speech about doping on June 25, 2013, about four months ago, on this bench again. I said: "There may be all sorts of health problems with drugs that even lead to death." I said, "Let's investigate the drug, find its reasons and prevent it." What did you do? You rejected our motion with the votes of the AKP's MPs. Why did you refuse? Sir, the House was very busy at the time, he couldn't be interested, that wasn't true. Then you didn't tell the truth because the General Assembly could've made that decision in three hours at the most, as it is today, and the commission could've started working. So what happened? The worst has happened, death has happened. We lost 30-year-old bodybuilding athlete Hawk Irencin to doping. We don't know what health problems our other athletes have. You didn't even answer my question motion on this matter, Mr. Secretary. I'm about to tell you what I'm asking and why you're not answering. I think you didn't care about the drugs, you didn't care about the drugs at all until it happened. If this commission had been set up without the death incident, maybe this athlete wouldn't have died. Mr. Secretary, what did I ask you? I said, "Who pushed our athletes to do drugs before the games, did you investigate this, did you do any investigation?" Have you removed anyone from your post? At the opening of the games, Mr. Secretary, do you remember that an athlete was carrying a Turkish flag, and this athlete was remembered at the time for racial behavior that did not conform to the universal rules of our country's honor and sports community? I asked him, "Who chose this? Why did you choose this athlete who committed a hate crime? " For God's sake, a successful athlete, I never denied him, he was a successful athlete, but at that time Turkey was shaken. Why did you choose this? Why did you not answer? I told you in the last decade how many athletes have been banned from the competition because of drugs in national and international competitions? You gave three or five digits today, but you didn't answer or care the way I asked you to. Because you had more important things to do, you were buying a lot of things. In the last ten years, how many athletes or teams have received their reward for drugging? I said, "You didn't answer." You've been in power for ten years, and why can't you stop doping, aren't you responsible for sports education and control, what people have you processed? I said, again, you haven't answered. And you couldn't answer any of that here. You came out, you said some pretty words here, and you didn't believe them yourself. Someone set it up, gave it to you. As the AKP government, Mr. Secretary, you've got zero tolerances, you're leaving on everything. You say doping is zero tolerance, doping is going through the roof. You call it zero tolerance for violence in health, violence peaks in health. There are zero problems with neighbors. You say, problems are going through the roof. For God's sake, I have a request: at least don't use the word "zero tolerances" anymore in memory of today. And don't even mention the word "zero." Because every time you take the word "zero" into your mouth, there are problems. A similar incident... You go ahead, Mr. Hakan. I'm waiting. You guys finish your speech.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0096par0017	But you're running out of time.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0095par0018	I'll be out of time, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0097par0019	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0095par0020	I'm sure Mr. Thank God's speech is much more important. Come in, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0098par0022	Is there such a thing?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0099par0023	Mr. Speaker, please continue your conversation. Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0098par0024	Let him speak to the General Assembly. We're listening.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0100par0025	We're gonna ask you who I'm gonna talk to? Go, for God's sake!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0098par0026	We're listening...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0101par0028	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0098par0029	Allah! Will there ever be such a thing?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0101par0030	Guys...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0031	I always come over here and sit down and...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0098par0032	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0033	Sure.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0103par0034	Mr. Orator, please continue your conversation.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0035	For God's sake...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0104par0036	Mr. President, as you interfered with the Hati, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0037	We're talking about something human here.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0104par0038	You'll have to deal with the hacker while you're sitting down. Please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0039	If you had accepted this three months ago, a person would not have died. That guy's talking in there. What kind of nonsense is that? That's respect, that's discipline?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0105par0041	Talk to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0042	For God's sake...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0106par0043	Mr. Orator, continue your conversation. Friends, members of lawmakers, please don't make small talk.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0045	Likewise, we do not display tolerance for violence in health. Please, let's set up a commission. We said in 2011. You didn't. Ersin, our friend is dead, and you had to set up a commission. Does that mean someone has to die, Mr. Secretary, so you can set up a commission? A man died here, and then you set up a commission. Actually, you're setting up a commission, but what are you doing? You're not considering the results. You don't have the courage to see the real causes of problems, just like in health. When you close your eyes, you think everything's gonna be fine, like kids. But believe me, you're not as clean as children. If there's no rant in a job, you only act with death. And that really makes us very sad. If we had set up a commission three months ago and that athlete hadn't died, maybe they'd have given us the 2020 Olympics, our candidacy for the 2020 Olympics would have been accepted, but you failed, you turned your failures to the youth of the Travelers who wanted freedom and democracy, and you blamed the Travel Youths. The Olympic Committee told you that we cannot hand over the Olympics to this mindset of violence against young people and gas bombs and death because the Olympics meant peace. I don't give an Olympics to a mind that doesn't share the Mediterranean Games with the people of Mersin. World countries didn't vote for people who didn't allow the city to live up to the sport, who used sports to play politics, and they didn't trust us with these Olympics. So please accept your failure and in no way reflect your failure on the events of travel, at least be honest here. What would the athletes do if the AKP government doped themselves? For months, the balance of payments has been written for years, billions of dollars unaccounted for. According to data released by the Central Bank, we're seeing numbers from a net error pen to two billion to $4.8 billion, Mr. Secretary. That's what you do to the economy. It's never something to be forgiven. If you were a government that would answer to its people, you'd come in, you'd come in, you'd pay for them, you'd give us, but you're doing drugs to the economy and you're trying to look cute. You let athletes do drugs to get three or five more medals so far. The 17th Mediterranean Games, held in Mersin's hometown of Mersin, which brought the first Olympic medal to our country in free wrestling, have unfortunately been commemorated only by dopings. Some of our athletes have been tested for drugging, so they've been pulled back. In fact, they escaped from the camps to avoid giving samples, Mr. Secretary. Why would an athlete run away from a sample?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0107par0050	Who's getting rid of the samples? Why don't you look over there?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0051	You know very well who did. He avoided giving away samples taken at an international level. You know why?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0107par0052	Why take a sample if there's no struggle?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0102par0053	Why did you avoid bringing the Court's report here, and why did the athletes there run away from giving samples? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0108par0056	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. In turn, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar, who has the 10/756 motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0109par0060	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to submit a motion to the Council's investigation into the ongoing investigation of drugrelated events in our sport. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by asking Mr. Secretary a few questions. A-183 on 26/3/2004. Whose urine sample was taken in bottle code 328?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0110par0062	The minister is chatting.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0109par0063	I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary. Is there an article sent to the Youth and Sports General Directorate by Turkey's Doping Control Centre, with 256 points dated 31/5/2004, as a result of this urine sample? Paper registration number 2133? What's the name of the athlete with a banned substance called metholone and methohone meth-1 in his urine as a result of the relevant article? Everyone said that. This athlete, such a registered athlete, was he in the Turkish national team's caravan at the 2012 London Olympics? What's his mission if he's been found? I don't suppose he taught athletes how to do drugs. A-183. Why is this person, number 328, currently in charge of a high-performance mission in your Ministry? Mr. Secretary, does the Prime Minister know what you're doing? I hope the Minister will answer my questions sincerely. Dear lawmakers, in a written press release in September, I reminded the Minister of Youth and Sports that after the drug trials, the presidents of the Halter and Athletic Federation were suspended, that they had told athletes they were being punished, and that I had seen no research on who or whom the banned substances were used, how often and for what reasons. In the 17th Mediterranean Games, where we hosted, he stated that it was important for the Assembly to step in on the doping of the 2020 Olympic Games, the biggest reason why we lost the 2020 Olympic Games, and how, through the participation of all parties in our parliament, doping our sport, why and by which it was investigated, how to find solution proposals and ensure the future of our Turkish sport, I wanted Mr. Minister to take an active role in the opening of our proposal to open as the Republic's People's Party of Turkey on 6 July 2013, and not to lose any chance to lose any interest in how and by whom. That call, which I'm now making, was soon answered by AKP's investigation of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Secretary is explaining how much they contribute to the country's sport as a government in each speech. The extent of these contributions is always expressed by the financial sums of investments made. Maybe these talks can hold a value in budget talks, but when it comes to doping, it doesn't mean much. This is a little bit more interesting than the opening of the 6th Executive Office in Afyonkarahisar, with prayer and ribbons. I would also like to ask that the last four apartments, which were opened in Afyon, were, unfortunately, opened in your time, be remembered that there were only two at the beginning of AKP's power. According to the Turkish National Olympic Committee's Anti-Doping Commission, there was one or more banned substances of 90 out of 648 athletes in 2013. The average of doping athletes in the world is one and a half percent, so it's a disgrace to Turkish sports that it's close to 15 percent, so it's 10 times more. If you don't even allow a competition in construction tenders, which you see as construction alone, if you give what you want by negotiating, I love the smart, nimble and moral of the athlete. If you forget what you said, even in sports, as well as the non-responsibility of the resistance on the day of the 23-year-old Halter Milli team in Israel, the fact that the 16 athletes in Israel are doing doping, even in the history of the 40pınar fights, that the prime paragon of Peehliva is doping doping, and I love the moralistry of the Mediterranean Olympic Games. In fact, the reason for our failure in these organizations is that instead of sharing the work and raising it with understanding, it's a situation where you don't give it to the competent, but you mess it up. We also experienced this example at the 25th World Colleges Winter Games, held in Erzurum. Although our country was announced in 2007 that it would perform the 2011 Winter Games in 2007, it is important that the tenders were given late and given in a haggling way, and the preparations could only be completed a month before the games; it is important to remind our country that the International Federation of University Sports has made a written warning, and the organisation's general co-ordinatorship in the area of expertise and office at the State Staff, as well as the Zhetta Office at İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, and as the chair of the EPA and the position of the EPA, as well as the president of the ESVAC, and as well as the president of the municipality. Does the Prime Minister know about these deployments, Mr. Secretary? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you try to take the institutions you run away from righteousness, only with a buddy sergeant's relationship, you're bound to hit the wall. One day, this bump comes from doping, one day from harassment, one day from something else, but one day you bump into something else, and you're stuck in your country, you're stuck in it, you're stuck in it for years, you're stuck in the face of your country. It is also an indication that the AKP's motion to investigate Turkish doping cases in Turkish sports on February 28, 2013 was introduced within November. Mr. Secretary, what is the status of the Prime Minister's inspection of the Tekwondo national team, which is in the press, as a result of allegations of harassment? When will the Supreme Court's decision on the Teekwondo federation elections, which have been cancelled by the Supreme Court, be carried out? I would like to remind you of your legal responsibility for making an election decision within three weeks at the most, since the Supreme Court's decision has been made to you. Dear lawmakers, in another statement, Mr. Secretary has brought the word to the samples taken this time. In 2011, between 70 and 100 samples were sampled, and in 2013, 1,000 to 1,200 samples were taken. Now, I'd like to ask, why has the number of specimens increased from 100 to 1,200? The success of the Olympics, the success of the games, the success of the championships, the success of it, the success of it, that's what we did.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0111par0072	WADA is pressing, WADA.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0109par0073	Here, I'm hoping to find all of this as a result of a congressional investigation. I hope so. I say it because I'm afraid of this situation, like the blackout of the Lighthouses. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0112par0076	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Now, according to its main proposal (10/758), it is owned by Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0113par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council of Investigation motions on doping. I salute all of you, and I would like to start by saying to the founder of our republic, the great leader Ataturk, that the thought body must continue with training. I love the smart, nimble, and also the moral of the athlete. With these words, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic of Turkey, clearly reveals his importance to sports and athletes. Dear lawmakers have expressed in the speech of our Minister here that the Doping is contrary to human creation, human futrate, and because it is a toxic substance. Maybe that's true, but then again, when you look at it, doping is forbidden for an honest competition, to avoid unfair competition, and to protect athlete's health. Doping is not only a problem of morality and health, it is also a matter of legal sanctions, and the athlete must, of course, act in this direction by guiding his opinion, his thinking, to the conditions of his sport, while strengthening his body. These studies must be carried out within the framework and in accordance with the rules set by national and international sports organizations. But unfortunately, in recent years when we look at international competitions, it seems that Turkish athletes are particularly interested in doping, and that Turkish athletes doping is on the front page as a local, national, and even international foreign scandal. These events have caused a negative reaction to the country's sports and its athletes. In addition to doping athletes, non-doping athletes are also considered in this category, and the world is publicly damaged in the image of our country. Why do athletes use banned pharmacological substances to artificially increase athletic performance? And why are they taking these drugs? We should all look for the answers to these questions together. My dear friends, I played football, and I played for many years, and I played professionally. Now, footballers, athletes become popular people, and for years, we, a professor, a famous lawyer, a famous scientist, have made a few years' worth of money that they can't work for, and they're in the front row of society. When you look at it that way, as in Turkey, many athletes, country athletes, aim to participate in these large organizations and to gain economic income from it soon -- for the duration of their sports life -- and to enjoy the rest of their lives in peace. Hence, sports have become spectacular, and the rewards offered to our athletes in this day and age will make us flip-flops. Mr. Secretary said that very well, and so did my fellow speakers. To win these awards, people participate in unfair competition, and people with athlete's identities take this doping and use it. But when they take this doping and use it, do they do it by thinking about their sanctions on technical committees or executives or federations, what if, okay, we got a medal, let him eat it? Or doesn't the return of the medals that were later received cause us grief? Congressmans, isn't it a crime to do drugs in sports, to sell drugs, to use football players? We need to think about this a lot. In our interviews with athletes, young friends say that their success in sports -- as I just said -- is important in their economic strength, so they resort to it, and unfortunately, the age of doping has reached the point of taking these doping drugs. Of course, we need to direct young people to sports, and we need to encourage them to exercise by training them into sports. Because again, the Great Leader Ataturk says: "The sound mind is found in a sound body. At this time, the most important task falls to two ministries: the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of National Education and the institutions that are extensions of them. Now, when we look at the statement of the Turkish National Olympic Committee's Anti-Doping Commission, in 2013, in examples of 648 athletes, in 90 athletes, one or more banned substances have been detected and the world's doping athletes are 1.5 per cent -- my dear friend just told us -- that it is 15 percent closer to us than the world average in Turkey, the fact that it is 10 times more doping athletes than the world average. Now, Mr. Secretary, every chance we get, we build the sports, we invest, we build the halls. I also want to say, as a joke, that all of the halls are closed, so it's called a closed gym. So that's what we've done now, it's good, but it's closed on the name.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0114par0088	Is the door closed too?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0113par0089	And the door is closed. I'll give you an example. In the past, a sports minister has gone to inspect the facilities, and when he and his delegation enter the X-door, he sees that he is very clean and well-groomed, and he calls the sitter. What a nice look. Look, it's not old, it's not, it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, Yes, Mr. Minister, that's how we protect this place, because it's closed. So let's get this closed down, and let's do it in public, not closed anymore. My dear friends, in this way, however, there must be fair-play in every aspect of the sport. Look, when we look at the area of the fair-play, unfortunately, we talked about the Violence Act here, but when it comes to implementing it, it's only at the point where the government's fans take effective measures against them on their way to the game. For him, the federations are not autonomous, but all of these federations are completely under the control and custody of the Prime Minister and the government. Mr. Secretary, I'll say, of course, you're waiting, you're wondering, will he? Canalioğlu? I will, of course. Although two of our major football teams, Fenerbahçe and Beşiktas, were still suspended from European Cups by UEFA and CAS for cheating in the 2010-2011 Super League season, the original owner of the Turkish Football Federation has not yet been given the title of Tripolispor. Our goal is clean football, rights, and labour, and the neutral Football Federation is expected to do its job, but it's certainly not neutral. Members of parliament, I would like to say that Tripoli is a sports town, and has really raised some very important athletes in Turkish sports history, athletics, wrestling, every major, and these are the names that cost Turkey. For example, such names as Özkan Sumer, Şenol Sun, Necati Özçaçlayen, Hüseyin Tok, Hami Mandıra, Kadir Özcan, Necmi Perekli have taken their place in Turkish football. Minister, all of these were raised at Yavuz Selim Stadium in Tripoli. The Yavuz Selim Stadium was opened in 1913, and the entire team of Tripoli, who played the first match here in 1913, was martyred in the First World War. Now, at the coming point, this area is being taken away from amateur athletes -- which includes 7,600-odd athletes -- and it's being built by TOKI: Forest housing! Yavuz Selim Stadium, May 19th Closed Gym, Avni Aker Stadium, not enough, is being taken to the Fatih Stadium in Akçaababat, and instead, we will do the summer Stadium, which has not been finished for seven years, which has not been completed for eight years. Mr. Secretary, you give us $100 million, you build stadiums everywhere, but don't sell us our stuff and give us the stadium. The TOKI will give us all kinds of things, but don't deprive us of the services of these amateur athletes. Look, only athletes don't play here. Here, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism, our fellow citizen, Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar, also gave food to 2,000 people in Ramazan. Again, the funeral of Kadir Özcan (God rest his soul) of our national athlete was performed in this area, as did Erdogan Bayraktar, as well as Minister of Family Affairs Mr Fatma Şahin. So this is a multi-directional area, and we have to evaluate these areas. It's your job to take care of this area. If you don't, history, sports history won't remember you and the Minister of Environment and Urbanism very well in the history of Tripoli. I'd like to bring this to your attention, Mr. Secretary. I know your sensibilities, and I hope, and I expect you to listen to the voice of the ASKF and other institutions and organizations that lead amateur athletes, democratic mass organizations, sports-related amateur teams, and protect this place again. I wish this doping commission to be a blessing, that we can and should. Maybe this is the first time we'll make a decision here together. I hope Turkish sports will benefit from that. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0115par0100	Thank you, Mr. Canalioglu, you've given me a sense of country. Now, the main proposal (10/759) is owned by Mersin MP Ali Oz. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0116par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on a motion for research regarding a drug problem in the entire world and in our country, which violates the spirit of sports. I salute the High Council. As you all know, in the Galatasaray-Kopenhag game tonight, I wish the Galatasaray Club eternal success. Human beings have never accepted the limits of physics and reason. From prehistoric times when he began to exist on earth, he always tried to transcend his physical and spiritual boundaries, to improve his abilities and abilities, and to try to accomplish that, he always drank, ate, or used some incentives. Doping is a social event with historical, sociological, anthropological, psychological, biological, economic and legal aspects. Hence, sociologists, historians, philosophers and jurisprudences have bent the question as well as even before them. I don't want to repeat what the esteemed lawmakers here who expressed their views on doping before me said. However, I'd like to point out that at the point of counter-doping, you may have overlooked something important. Of course, it is necessary to underline the fact that athletes in other countries also consider Turkey a paradise at the point of providing doping materials. Turkey, according to other countries around the world, is one of the countries where doped substances are used at the point of use of drugs containing drugs -- 1.05 per cent in other countries -- with a high rate of 14 per cent. Therefore, it is necessary to stress that we have no control over the use of these drugs, that we have a lot of legal gaps, and that only doping athletes do, except for what their purpose is, must take some measures that are difficult to access to doping substances. Doping is far more dangerous than cheating. It is clear that there is a loophole for those who organise it, who put it in the dorm, who provide it to the athlete, who encourage it. It can also be doping without the athlete's knowledge. There are disciplinary agencies, disciplinary regulations that organise this for athletes, but the athlete may have taken it deliberately without knowing it. Therefore, discrimination is essential. When the middlemen encourage drugs, when they supply drugs, if they know it will be sanctioned by the Turkish Penal Code, they will surely give up. Even foreign athletes say they can easily get drugs from our country. The important thing is to prevent access to the doping. So the important thing is to be able to bring sanctions to the seller or suppliers. If necessary sanctions are brought in, Turkey will no longer be a doping paradise. It's a fact that everyone knows that we have serious loopholes at the point of supplying doping substances. Of course, especially at the point of supplying drugs used as doping, we know that there are groups who used to coach and now sell energy products and so-called vitamin pills. These people have been on the edge of all athletes who have been doping in recent years, especially athletics, but the sports agency is still keeping them in the system. Apart from increasing the success of the athlete alone, the damage to his own health must be taught to the athlete in absolute detail. Everyone should know that doping substances have a short and long - term negative impact on human health, that we may face consequences that may even lead to sudden deaths. Now, in this legal arrangement of doping in our country, the chain that will lead to the federation of the athlete, not just the athlete, but the fact that everyone in charge there should know with absolute certainty what punishment they're going to face as a result of this doping event, and I want to say again, I believe that their serious legal sanctions, as in all medicines in our country, should be done, should be delivered from our country's athletes and other world athletes, as well as from outside the country, should be given a controlled sale of drugs, as we would consider in all drugs.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0117par0115	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Now, the line of speech (10/760) is based on the Prime Minister Lütfu Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0118par0119	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to talk to you about the corruption of sports and the research of Congress for increasing doping. Doping, as I mentioned earlier, is a moral problem first. It's a moral problem, in fact, outside of the instinct of athletes to compete, to be first in the competition, to be assertive. Morality breeds like a germ, on its available ground. I mean, if the ground is available, people's morals don't just break down in sports, but in other places. This is the part that reflects on the sport. Look, I'm telling you, it's immoral. We are a country with 16 athletes doping in the Mediterranean Games. We couldn't tell the Turkish nation, we couldn't tell the foreign press. What's written about us, what's said about us, is not edible. I'm ashamed of them as a Turkish citizen.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0119par0122	Wrong.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0118par0123	Mr. Secretary says they've seen less than 16. Maybe they'll write more when they're 26. You should be ashamed of this, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0119par0124	The Mediterranean Games don't exist.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0118par0125	First of all, it's you who should be the most embarrassed, and I'm ashamed of myself as a Turk, of course.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0119par0126	The Mediterranean Games don't exist, they don't exist in preventive controls, they don't exist in the Mediterranean Games. Give me the right information.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0118par0127	Mr. Secretary, doping cases in Turkey, which have been the reason for this motion for research, have become so much in your time, but as I mentioned before, I find this to be about a growing tolerance of immorality in society. Turkey faced a matter of fraud, a matter of fraud that was hit on the button on July 3rd. That's a vice, too. It's not proper for any man to be ethical about a fix, to accept it as normal. But you think it's just sports, do you think it's just football? All of the tenders made by the Justice and Development Party government are fixed, fixed contracts are being made. It's a vice, just like the game in football. Look, the TMSF has the Turkish and Evening newspaper, no sales have been made, but right now everyone in the community, including the reporters outside, knows that this will be bought by a businessman who is close to power before he tenders. Is there such a tender? I don't mean to mention your name here, but as a result, this person is a businessman, and I don't mean to be a pain in the ass, but if everyone's talking about what it's going to take, isn't there a fix in this tender? So when it's in football, you put people in prison, and they're out on the street. I also have something to say here. Compromisers in tenders are widely accepted at the highest levels of the state. They don't even get visitors to prison, let alone go to prison. It would be wrong to only blame this fix on the Minister of Sports. The entire Justice and Development Party government is a fraud government. Along with the doping, what a friend of ours was just talking about, it's a separate disgrace that Turkey's budget should be given by doping and putting on make-up, but to present the tender as a normal, legitimate business, that's another disgrace. This one needs legal provisions that can prevent it, too. Look, in the Mediterranean Games, you sent a flag to a player named Reza Kayaalp. What this brother of ours wrote: You left the square to the Armenians. God damn you, activists. The people of Armenia were celebrating. We invaded Taksim. The action you're doing... point point:..the traitors of the state......what would happen if he did do drugs, exercise, something else. Is it proper for a minister to respond to such immorality? Is that okay, guys? Why do you make fun of these people, the Turkish nation, why do you take it so lightly? The Fenerbahçe convention was held on Sunday. It was a convention that you threw in prison on July 3rd, as well as St. Yıldırım. I'm not from Fenerbahçe. I've mentioned it before in the talks about the fix here. I was a scholarship rep for the Club Association on that bill. I've personally stated that this bill will hit anyone who wants it, and I'll repeat it here. I believe it was the Law to Avoid Violence in Sports. Aziz Yıldırım went to prison. St. Yıldırım has been accused of cheating, some documents have been presented, but none of the men alleged to have fixed St. Yıldırım have even entered the prison as visitors. What kind of a fix is that? I mean, can you tell me that this is a sting operation? This was a Fenerbahçe operation. This government has a matter of taking over all the levels of society. You can't put it in, you can't afford it, you can't afford it. It won't happen, it won't happen in the past, and it won't happen now. It's a demand that mankind may demand, but conditions and conditions are not available. Where you're going, you're going to turn into toasts. Finally, he got up, and he was helpless enough to intervene in a club convention, the AKP government. What's Fenerbahçe Congress doing with AKP power? One club convention, no matter who's running, one gets elected president, the other can't be elected. As a result, our fellow members of the club, sports fans, club members, will sort it out amongst themselves. The Prime Minister couldn't handle it. Who are you to build a mall at a group meeting, and who are you to build a bank? He can't go and build a bank like a Qatar family with ties to the Prime Minister and deposit 300 million liras. If the Qatar family is allowed to build this bank because of its proximity to the Prime Minister, when there are many investors waiting in line to build a bank, then Mr. St. Yıldırım's dreams are empty, very true, Prime Minister! This grudge, this anger, is not about the Fenerbahçe community. You have a grudge and a grudge against everyone who is not one of you. When you overcome this hatred, you will surely, surely, be the ruler of this country. Now you'll be president of just one party. My respects to all of you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0120par0136	He's not the president, he's the Prime Minister. It's amazing.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0121par0137	Thank you, Mr Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0122par0138	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0121par0139	Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0122par0140	In his speech, all the ministries of the AKP government are fixed, and the tenders are fixed, he said. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0121par0141	Two minutes, I promise, because of the bullying. Please speak in a manner that will not cause further taunts.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0122par0145	Thank you. Mr. President, we continue our talks on an important day, on a blessed day. So far, it's been a great conversation, but I have to respond to what the Congressman says. In his speech, the deputy said all contracts of the Justice and Development Party are fixed, all ministers are fixed. That's not something we would ever, ever accept. I'd like to ask the Congressman if you have any documents, information, documents...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0123par0149	I just gave you an example. In the hands of the TMSF...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0122par0150	Would you excuse me? First of all, we need to know the language, the manners. If there was a document, information, documents, why haven't you ever filed an appeal to a court of law, filed a criminal complaint? If you have a court order on this matter, please share it with us, and we'll know it. I do not find it right to criticize the political institution with such harsh language above all else. We're a state of law.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0124par0153	If you send the Court report...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0122par0154	In this case, if you have any information, documents, court order or irregularities, you can't...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0124par0155	We're looking forward to a court report.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0122par0156	...to the prosecutors of the Republic of Turkey, to the courts of the Republic of Turkey. We'd appreciate it if we knew something like that. Other than that, it is not your right to criticize the political institution and the government in matters without arguments, without documents, and it is not your right to criticize the government. Let's end this conversation with this conversation and end tonight, if possible. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0125par0160	Thank you, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0126par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0127par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0125par0163	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0127par0164	Mr. Hajjip has claimed that the EC PARTY government has been corrupting the tenders. He also claimed that the government was involved in the general boards of sports clubs. In these matters, I would like to take the stand according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0125par0166	Here, two minutes, I promise. But please don't cause any more bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0128par0171	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I wish we were actually talking about doping, if we were talking about doping events in sports, as a moral problem of doping, as a health issue of doping, as a violation of human rights of doping, we would be witnessing a session where the doping was discussed in violation of general provisions in the Turkish Penal Code, but unfortunately, often, people were insulted, institutionally defamed and slandered. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY Prime Minister or any of his ministers were not involved in the recent Fenerbahçe Congress in one way or another. There's a Beşiktas General Assembly before that. There's no reason for our government to be involved. Its status is defined, its member structures are defined, its delegation structures are defined, its presidential struggle is on what basis, in what shapes and hows are being done around here, and it is clear what the approach and attitude of our government is to such matters. The last member of parliament and some lawmakers before him mentioned that there were sometimes open, sometimes implied corruption in tenders, especially during the Mediterranean Games in Mersin. Yes, it's true, the Mediterranean Games in Mersin were often used to negotiate because Greece has received the government and has not laid stones on stones for four years. Within 18 months, the Mediterranean Games' projects were carried out both their tenders and constructions. It suits the congressman's seriousness not to slander, but to submit the document to the Public Prosecutor's Office if there is one.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0129par0176	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0130par0177	You also negotiated Erzurum.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0131par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0180	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0181	Mr. Deputy President and Minister of the Justice and Development Party have asked you a question, and if you have a document, explain it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0182	You want to explain.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0183	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0184	I'll give you a minute, from your position. Mr. Turkkan, from your position, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0186	Sir, I'd like to use the podium, if I may.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0187	Please ask for an explanation...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0188	I have the right to use it as the Minister used it, sir.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0189	But he asked without taunting, and you said a brief explanation. Would you please take your seat, please?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0190	And I'd like to exercise my right to explain because of the bullying, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0191	You said you'd make a brief statement. Please take your seat. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0192	Mr. President, you'll stretch out and act unfairly.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0193	Mr. Turkkan, I'm following the Civil Code. I'm asking you, please take your seat.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0132par0194	The Civil Code has never been implemented.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0196	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0197	Well, I'd like a word with you on that.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0198	And I have to promise you your place.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0199	No.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0200	I'll give you my word on the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0201	I'm asking the group to correct a misexplained issue.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0202	What's this about?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0203	Here's the documentation issue from just now.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0204	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. You have two minutes.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0206	Lütfü will speak for me.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0135par0207	Mr. President, you shouldn't bother with these regulations. It's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0208	I wish you hadn't done that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0134par0209	What else can we do, our friend to explain?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0133par0210	You shouldn't have.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0136par0212	Now, Mr. Minister, first of all, I'm telling you that the ministry of sports in Turkey is the ministry that every young man who has entered parliament wants first. Why? It's very popular. Sports are a very serious issue among young people in Turkey, with a lot of audiences. I think you're very happy when you're the first minister as a young parliamentarian. We also think it's a great chance for a young minister to take over the sport for Turkey, but I'm sorry to say, Mr. Secretary, it's not about personality, it's about skill. You couldn't do it, you couldn't do it.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0137par0213	That's for people to decide!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0136par0214	I mean, there's a lot of thesis going on about your people, and you're having problems with three buildings, and you can't even do that!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0138par0215	That's a shame.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0136par0216	Of course it's a shame. It's a shame. On the other hand, there is Ismet Paşa Stadium, the only stadium in the city, the only stadium in the province of Kopelispor. Right now, last October 29th, we've had the last rites there. Because it's about to become a mall, and the stadium is being moved. First, they want Ismet Pasha Stadium to remain a stadium. Second: If this stadium is to be removed from here, show us the stadium. They'll expect an answer from you on that one. I answer to Mr. Vice President: I have just submitted it, and if Sky Türk and the Evening News are in the hands of TMSF. And someone is sitting there pretending to own it, if the newspapers say that this person is going to buy it, it's a setup. We call the cat cat, Mr. Vice President. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0139par0221	Where are your papers?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0140par0222	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0141par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0142par0224	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0141par0225	Mr. President has made a statement by giving my name and charging me, Mr. Orator. In accordance with Article 69 of the Civil Code, I would like to exercise my right to answer from the bench.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0142par0226	Here you go, two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0141par0230	Highly respected MPs, for this is the way your patience has been tested on a day of Galatasaray's match, make your rights lawful first. By bringing in a matter that had previously been proposed for a geneorization, Mr. Hajji has made it clear that he is unprepared to doping and that he is not serious about his other allegations. It's a matter of the motion for a gene. There's a right to own property in the country. That's what I've done. If so, you can go to the D.A.'s office about it.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0143par0231	I didn't say there was. This way...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0141par0232	As for Kopeeli Stadium: Precious MPs are the only stadium in Turkey between 1994 and 2002. It's big, but the project is not a good project, the Ataturk Olympic Stadium. Now, we have to spend as much money as a stadium money to turn this stadium back into a stadium. That's one. Two: For eleven years, all ministers before me and myself have continued to pay the loans of the Ataturk Olympic Stadium from the legal budget of the Istanbul Olympic Games Prep and Editing Council, and the treasure has been made with guaranteed debt. The Republic of Turkey, which has built one stadium in eight years, has come to a position and power that can build 25 stadiums in three years today.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0144par0234	You say eight years, you blame your own government, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0141par0235	Mersin is complete, Turk Telekom Arena Stadium is complete, Afyonkarahisar Stadium is at 90 per cent, Malatya Stadium is at 30 per cent, Sivas Stadium is crude construction, 25 per cent, we laid the foundation of Eskişehirtep We have made a tender for Sakarya, and the construction has begun, and we have made a tender for 33,000 stadiums, and the decision is final. We made the tender for Adana, and the place was delivered. 25 stadiums; of course, I don't expect you to appreciate the Prime Minister and the ministers of a government who invested so much in this sport and worked so hard. Good luck to Galatasaray. Good evening.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0145par0239	Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0146par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0145par0241	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0147par0242	All of these places had stadiums, you destroyed them and built a mall instead.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0148par0243	How many people were there?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0145par0244	Congressman, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0148par0245	How many people were there?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0149par0246	You've shared a share of the AVMs there, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0148par0247	I don't expect appreciation, but don't say "AVM" for what's being done, nothing's been done.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0150par0248	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0151par0249	They don't see it, they don't see it, never mind.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0148par0250	The Turkish nation's money...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0150par0251	Mr. Altay, please. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0152par0253	You're lying down, mall, you're getting up, mall!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0150par0255	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0153par0257	Don't get used to slandering Reza so quickly! Rizayaya Turkish nation...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0150par0258	Mr. Sword, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0154par0259	In Turkish political history, you will be remembered as the AVM Government.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0153par0260	It's not easy, nationalism!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0154par0261	You're the last man to teach me a lesson in nationalism, Mr. Secretary. I'm a paid man, not a nationalist who talks like that.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0155par0263	Mr. Secretary, please... Mr. Sword, please... Come in, Mr. Altay, I'm listening. Mr. Secretary, please... look, Mr. Altay, you're being unfair and disrespectful to him, please, he's the Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0156par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in his previous speech to Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Turkkan, in addition to Mr. Turkkan, speaking on behalf of our group, he said that they were far from serious...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0157par0270	No, no. I didn't say that Mr. Engin, it was a misunderstanding...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0156par0271	That's right, we'll wait for the minutes and see. Madam Secretary, you've invited them to be serious, you've accused them of being non-serious. I, too short, want to exercise my rights for some bullying about it.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0157par0273	Mr. Engin, if you're going to use the right to answer, it's in the President's discretion, but I didn't use that phrase.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0156par0274	Mr. Secretary, then the President will take a break, we'll ask for the minutes, we'll see. I know what I heard.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0157par0275	I didn't use it, I didn't generalize it.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0158par0276	Mr. Altay, I didn't hear such an ibare, really, honestly, neither did I.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0156par0277	Ask for the transcripts, I insist. Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0158par0278	Let's get the transcripts and see.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0156par0279	Take what? We'll talk for two minutes.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0159par0280	Mr. President, may I make a statement? Mr. Altay, look...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0160par0282	The Minister has the right to explain, if he wants to, right away.!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0161par0283	Mr. Secretary, you said that.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0159par0284	I'm going to say a sentence.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0161par0285	I have to answer that one way or another.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0162par0286	Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0159par0287	If that's generalized, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. If such a statement exists, I request that it be removed from the reports.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0161par0288	Let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0159par0289	I didn't make that generalization.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0163par0290	He said he was sorry, it was meant to be. Thank you, Mr. Altay. Yeah, now it's time to talk...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0164par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0163par0294	As the main owner of the 10/763) motion, Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu belongs to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0164par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0163par0296	Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0164par0297	Mr. President...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0163par0298	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0164par0301	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, they have stated that many stadiums are made from the budget. In exchange for the stadium they built in Mersin, they agreed to give the Georgian Stadium to the TOKI (AVM).
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0165par0302	I'm telling you, it's the government of the AVM.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0164par0303	So they've taken 1 and 3 of the investments made in Mersin.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0166par0304	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0164par0305	Sir, there is such a thing. Go out and tell him we didn't give it to him. Please tell me the truth.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0306	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0166par0307	We didn't get a 1 and a 3.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0168par0308	They got a 5!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0309	You're on the record, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0169par0310	Two: Mr. President, who also says that they did business in a short period of 18 months, and that they had to do it by shaking hands, says that he was in a rush to do it, but he doesn't take one job from Mersin and get people to do it out of Mersin.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0311	Mr. Horseman, thank you. What you said is in the report.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0169par0312	I'm just saying that for the record.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0313	Mr. Dedeoğlu, please...
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0170par0314	If there's anything illegal, please go to the DA's office.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0315	Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0171par0316	Sir, don't hide behind him because he's a prosecutor. You'll do everything within ethical rules, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0317	Mr. Horseman, please allow the Hati.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0172par0318	Everything is legal and ethical.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0167par0319	Here you go. 5- Kars MP İstiye İstaniya and 21 MPs' motion to open parliamentary research (10/757) in order to determine measures to be taken by investigating the problem of drugs in sports.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0173par0336	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs to our motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the Turkish sport of doping. I salute your high council. Mr. President, before I was elected MP, I was president of the Turkey's Blinded Sports Federation from 2004 to 2011. I also attended the Athens Olympics, the Chinese Olympics, and the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games in London. Doping has become an industry in both Turkey and the world; unfortunately, I regret to say so. Both the people who use it and the sellers, unfortunately, are in the wrong.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0174par0339	Congressmans, please listen to the preacher! Thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0173par0341	Besides, using this doping, it's selling -- both coach and athlete, club presidents, managers -- it's all because of lack of education, because the federation, the clubs don't give you the necessary seminars and training. Of course, there's a lot of problems with that. I'd like to accept this as an act of health and health that the athlete who used that doping did without knowing what harm he was going to do to his country, to his club, and to his own. Doping, violence and fixation in Turkish sports are three points that three should not be found together. We don't want to see all three of them together, and we have to deal with it in Parliament with both laws and regulations. I would like to request this commission in the parliamentary inquiry motion that we've submitted on this matter, that it will be established immediately, and those reports will be filed by Parliament, and the necessary measures will be taken. We call it the National Movement Party: no drugs in Turkish sports, no violence, no fix. In this regard, our group is ready to do all sorts of work. I hope that this commission will be set up next semester and Parliament will do its work. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0175par0346	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Now, it's time for the talk (10/765) original no. As the owner of the Lu motion, İstanbul MP Hakan belongs to Hallelujah. Here you go, thank God.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0176par0350	It's a historic day!
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0177par0351	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the doping cases. I salute our beloved nation and the High Council. Of course, before I begin my speech, I sincerely wish our Galatasaray, my team, Galatasaray, who will be playing in the Champions League, which concerns our country and will be played in about half an hour. The story of our country's success in almost every field in recent years, its transformation, its transformation, is undoubtedly reflected in sports. Over the past 11 years, Turkish sports, athletes, young people have been invested in large investments, hundreds of modern facilities have been built, many international organisations have been successfully carried out. As one of the honors of serving my country in this field of professional sports, I have observed that the use of banned substances, which have recently become a bleeding wound of Turkish sports, has been taken more concrete and systematic steps in drug use and more will be done. To penetrate all areas of the sport, we see that the fight against doping will not only be done by tests or punishments, but as a result of preventive measures and awareness studies as we arrived today. Anti-doping programmes aim to protect the fundamentally valuable one for sports. This basic value is called the spirit of the sports, and it is the basis of the spirit of the Olympics. It's actually a sign of how to play fair. The spirit of sport is the mirror of the human soul, body, and intelligence. It is expressed by values such as morality, honesty, performance, health, character, respect for rules, solidarity. The WADA -- the World Anti-Doping Agency, which is the world's roof of doping -- is actively and current, continuing its scientific activities in order for sport to be cleaner and fairer. The goal is to protect the rights of a clean athlete. In our country, the Anti-Doping Commission, which operates under the national Olympic Committee, was established in June 2011 after the protocol signed with the Sports General Directorate on 24 May 2011 to institutionalise the fight against doping and establish the main principles of the co-operation to be carried out and to carry out the fight against doping. Turkey's Anti-Doping Instruction, created by the Commission under World Anti-Doping Rules (CODE), was adopted by the WADA on 23 September 2011. At a meeting of the WADA Founders' Council on 20 November 2011 in Montreal, Canada, Turkey has been listed on the list of countries in line with the world's anti-doping rules. All of this work has been announced to our sports federations, and work has been launched in our country. But as of now, it is important that the processes be further detailed and that the relevant public institutions and institutions be included in the issue. Reorganisation of the issues related to supplying prohibited substances must be provided to those who mediate on this issue, and the audits on this matter must be expanded. Titles such as scientificly prepared materials in sports and training programmes for athletes and trainers, the creation of a joint sports database, and the taking of relevant measures to determine the supply routes of these substances will lead us to clean sports. We see that most of the tests conducted by WADA in 2012 were done by testing urine samples. Last year, 88 percent of athletes' samples are urine samples, 5% are blood samples, and 6% are biological passports. In addition, in the same year, 53 percent of the samples were taken during the competition, but not during the competition. The fact that doping controls are now being taken not only in competition but also in non-compete shows us the serious point of the job. It's very important that even when the athlete is informed of the control, he can't be alone in any way until the control is over, even when he gives the sample, he's watched by a control officer, followed by WADA. Unfortunately, in the past tense, our athletes who escaped or refused to give during doping control have also faced punishment. It may be considered an intervention in the athlete's privacy during non-compete period, but it should also be noted that the WADA (WADA) Anti-Doping Control Administration of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)'s 1st article for athletes is available to you at all times and anywhere else. If such a matter is indispensable to clean sports, it is indispensable for all athletes, trainers and managers to consider and implement such instructions. Turkey's Doping Control Centre, which operates within the University of Hacettepe, will soon re-enact its WADA accordion and serve regional geography in this regard. The world currently has 33 hubs for the WADA. Within the next five years, the number of these will be limited to 40. So I have no doubt that with the centre's operation, the number of specimens in many majors will increase in our country and that these numbers will rise to international standards. Turkey now has vast resources and infrastructure beyond compare to the past in health and sports. The first sports hospital in Turkey, which was planned to be held in Istanbul, or rather, the Sports Centre Project, will be an important guide for us. That's kind of why I didn't listen to Aytug Bey just now, so I went to talk to him about something with our Minister, and I think it'll be a very important guide, and we're working on it. Our fellow athletes, academics, experts in this matter, highly valued opposition party MPs will surely give us their valuable ideas within this commission, and we can expand it with them. When we look at our sports history, I have very close friends who have to be punished for the wrong or incomplete information, the medication they use for treatment, and I don't want to say their names. What they were using for unnecessary treatment were punishments caused by a little unconsciousness and a little bit of uncontrollability, which hurt us deeply and hurt us. At the same time, these friends have been away from sports for a very long time during their most active time. That makes me sad, and I consider myself in charge of that. Hopefully, we'll all do some good work together on this commission. In addition, at the centre I was just talking about, the athlete's health centre will be able to track athlete's data, not just during the competition period but during long periods, with a biological passport that is only being used in athletics and bicycle majors in the world today -- Mr. Minister has partially expressed, but not in detail -- under the control method. We're working on it. In 2009, 6,082 biological passports were analyzed in the world, while the number was 18.223 last year. We are receiving support from academics in many areas of sports and health regarding the Istanbul Sporting Health Centre Project. In this context, the title of the fight against doping will also have an important place in the areas where the hospital will operate, you can be sure of that. The challenge in this area will soon yield its fruit. Healthy generations will succeed in a cleaner and more accurate way. On these occasions, I salute your High Council again and thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0178par0365	Thank you, Your Grace. Talks on parliamentary research motions have been completed. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the Clave investigation should be opened. Those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused... are accepted.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0179par0369	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0178par0370	Good luck to all of us. We're not done here, guys. I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation will be formed from 17 members: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months to begin with the date of the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We are starting talks with İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayaydın and 20 MPs about the opening of a parliamentary investigation into the building of non-instruction structures on the Istanbul Paperhouse and Ayama creeks, which is part of the 1st part of the part of the General Discussion and Parliamentary Review, which is part of the 1st, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken by the river's flow of lives and goods. Government? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with İstanbul MP Erdogan and 22 MPs on the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the allegations of political pressure in the sports sector. Government? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0180par0383	It is clear that the government cannot be found, Mr. President.
tbmm-2013-11-05sit04spe0178par0384	According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (November 6th 2013) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the assembly at 00, and I wish you a good evening.
